Memoir of Edward Forbes... By George Wilson...and Archibald Geikie.

Wilson, George, 1818-1859.
London, Macmillan and Edmonston co.; [etc., etc.] 1861.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/ien.35556025380171

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
       In compliance with current copyright law,
Northwestern University Library and BookLab. Inc.

  produced this volume to replace the irreparably
       deteriorated original. The paper meets the
        requirements of ANS1/NISO Z39 48- 1992
                    (Permanence of Paper)

                                Austin 1998
   "Tun loss sustained by the death of [this great Natnrmluit] wm aggravated to
tham who knew him, by tho consideration of how much of his knowledge had
 perished with himself, and, notwithstanding all that he had written, how much
of the light collected by a lift of experience and observation was now com
pletely extinguished. It Is, Indeed, melancholy to reflect, that with all who make

proficiency in the sciences, founded on nice and delicate obscrvathin, something
of this sort must Invariably happen. The experienced eye, tin1 power of perceiv

ing the minute differences and fine analogies which discriminate or unite the

objects of science, and the readiness of comparing new phenomena with others
already treasured up In the mhid, those are accomplishments which no rules can
teach, Mnd no precepts can put us In possession of. This is a portion of know
ledge which every man must acquire for himself, and which nobody can leave as
an Inheritance to his successor. It seoms. Indeed, as If Nature had In this In
stance admitted nn exception to the rule, by which sho has ordained the perpetual

accumulation of knowledge among civilized men, and had destined s considerable
portion of science continnully to grow up and perish with the individual."-- I'lay-
fat i>9Biographical account of Dr. Hvttnn, Works, vol. iv. p. 88.
                  MEMOIR OF

EDWARD FORBES, F.R$^_.

             LATK RBOIUB PROFESSOR OF NATURAL HIBTOItY IN
                                      UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH.

         BY (3EOJIOE WILSON, M.D., F.R.S.E.

I.ATI fUEOIUa PBOmBOR Or TKOHNOUJOY IN TnE UNIVKRBITr OF F.DINOURgil, AND
                      DIUCTOR Or TUK INDU8TRIAL MU8EUM Or 8COTLAND,

        ARCHIBALD GETKIE, F.RS.E, F.G.S.

                    or Tin nxoiiOaiOAL suitvsr or oriat Britain.

             MACMILLAN AND CO.

                                   Cnmbribgc anb Jonbort.

      KDMONSTON AND DOUGLAS, EDINBURGH,

                                                  1861.

                            \Tht Right of Tranilatio* it rttrrved.]
 : Z u/

nr)
                PREFACE.

     This Memoir was begun by the late Dr. Wilson
towards the close of 1854, very soon after Professor
Forbes's death. Ho made a considerable collection of
materials, in the form of letters, note-books, and other
papers. The weakness of his health, however, together
with the constant demands upon his time and labour,

greatly hindered his progress, so that he had only
advanced to the close of the sixth chapter when, in
November 1859, he was Beized with the illness which
rapidly carried him to the grave. These six chapters
were never revised by him ; nor has it been thought
expedient to make any change upon them -- they are
printed as they came from his pen. He left no notes
or outline of the work beyond the point where his
manuscript ended, and thus the greater part of the
Memoir remained still to be written.

     Having for many years enjoyed the privilege -- never
to be forgotten -- of Dr. Wilson's intimate friendship,
the task of continuing and completing his biography
of the great naturalist was, in the spring of 1860, in
vi PHEFACE.

trusted to me. The duties of a member of the Geo
logical Survey are little favourable to continuous literary
work. Hence the Memoir has proceeded slowly, at
broken and uncertain intervals, amid many changes of
abode, and at a distance from libraries and books of

reference. A year has thus passed away, and only now,

after the lapse of so long a period since the death of
Professor Forbes, is this imperfect record of his life

completed.

     To the numerous friends who, in addition to the

papers and information supplied by the family, have
furnished the materials of the following pages, every
acknowledgment is due : especially to Mr. Robert Pat
terson of Belfast, who lent an ample collection of letters
to the late Mr. William Thompson, Captain Graves, and
himself; to Professor Ramsay, who supplied many in
cidents relating to Forbes's connexion with the Geolo

gical Survey ; and to Mr. J. Beete Jukes, whose assistance

throughout has been of the most essential service. Sir
Roderick Murchison, Principal Campbell of Aberdeen,
Professors Bennett and Balfour of Edinburgh, Mr.
Leonard Horner, Dr. Percy, Dr. Day, Mr. Trenhani
Reeks, Mr. Bowerbank, Mr. Bristow, Mr. Baily, and
others, have kindly supplied letters and information.

      The tail-pieces scattered through the volume have
been selected from a large collection of the rough pen-
and-ink sketches with which, in his leisure moments,
Forbes's pen was ever busy, some of the best having been
PREFACE.  vii

furnished by Mr. Bowerbank. They are introduced, for

the most part, without reference to the text --a mode

of illustration to which Forbes himself was partial, and

which was adopted by him in his History of British

Starfishes.
      Among his papers was found a small octavo note

book, in which he recorded his writings, literary and
scientific, from 1831 up to the month before his death.

This list-- itself incomplete --has been used as the basis

of that given in the Appendix to this volume. Of the
numerous articles and critiqvqs which he wrote for
periodicals, a large number could with difficulty be
recovered. With a few exceptions, only thobO are given
in the Appendix which he regarded as worthy ol being
chronicled in his own list.

                                                            ARCIIU GEIKIE.
The Islr or Man,  .............CONTENTS                  rAui
                            CHAPTER I.                      I
Infancy -- Childhood -- Youth,CHAPTER II.
                                                          37
     ........CHAPTER III.                            ·    71

Palm start as an Ahtist -- First Residence M Londow,      87

                                         CHAPTER IV.    136
Academic Student Life in Edinrurgh,

                                         CHAPTER V.
A Yeas or Student Lira in EniNBUBon,

                                        CHAPTER VI.

Arandonment or Medicine as a Profession-- Adoption
     Histort as a permanent Vocation, . .
........Student Clurs,                               or Natural,165

.......Vacation Ramrles,        CHAPTER VII.

                                                        188

                  CHAPTER VIII.
                                ....CHAPTER IX.
                                                        203

His Fisct Years as a professed Naturalist,              325

                                6.
                          CONTENTS.

                          CHAPTER X.

The A£<ikan Hla,                                                        27-1

                          OHA1TEK XI.                                   332
                                                                        376
Licit m I-oniion, ah Cuuatok or tur «hou>oicai.      Sulirty, anu Pko-   437
                                                                          4»5
Klaaou or Dor amy I* Kinu's ColXBOK,  ·                                   636

                          CHAPTER XII.

Tint Groumiicai. Suuvry,

                                   CHAPTER XUI.      .     .
The Gbolooiuai, Suuvkv tuninutu -- Ilia Mauiuaur,

                                        CHAPTER XIV.
Tur Gkolouuial Burvkv anu tur School of Mimm, . . .

                                        CHAPTER XV.     .     .
Tur Ciiaiu or Natuual Him out at Edimiuiiuii,

Al'i'BMUU,                                                              675
Imukx,                                                                  685
MEMOIR OF EDWARD FORBES.

CHAPTER I.

THE ISLE OF MAN.

     In the centre of the Irish Sea, midway between the

shores of England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales, lies

that diminutive continent which, as if it were an epitome
of the whole world, bears the title of the Isle of Man.

On the chart it looks like one of the pieces of a child's

puzzle-map which has strayed to a distance from the

adjacent shores. It can be fitted, however, into none of

them, and geologists tell us that it is in its true place,
and represents one of the few surviving portions of a
tract of land which once united the British Islands, but

has long since left only fragments above the waves.1

  i " We know," says Edward Forbes,            of the British Isles, by Edward Forbes,
                                               Mem,             Sau"ml.anvdol.ofi.pa1s8s4a8g,ep".
"that the Irish Sea is scooped out of          There  o/Geol.                                      344.)
the elevated bed of the sea of the glacial            was thus                                     occu
epoch, masses of which, of great extent
and thickness, we find bounding its sidcs      pying the Irish Sea and making England
in England, the Isle of Man, and, still
                                               and Ireland one. Overthis bridge way the
more conspicuously, in Ireland, and that
on the great Pleistocene plain, lived the      great elk, now extinct (as well as other
Cerrns Megauros."--( The Geological Re
lations of the existing Fauna and Flora        creatures), passed and repassed, and ita

                                               bones are now found alike in Ireland

                                               and the Isle of Man.

                                            A
                         MEMOIR OF           CHAP. I.

     They have spared, indeed, little of the fertile plains
which once filled the Irish sea, for the Isle of Man is

scarcely more than thirty miles long, and twelve miles

broad, and the number of its inhabitants, at any one

time, has probably never exceeded fifty thousand.1 Yet

for centuries it was a kingdom with a king to itself, a

council, a jury-parliament, a Lex Scripta, administered

by oligarchs who were at once lawgivers, judges, and

magistrates, a peculiar ecclesiastical polity, and a people

acknowledging singular customs, and so loving their own

ways, that they resisted to the last even partial amalga

mation with Great Britain, and always called their birth

place The Island, as if it had the pre-eminence among

the islands of the sea.

In this tiny kingdom Edward Forbes was born early

in the present century, and he spent, consecutively, the

first sixteen years, or altogether more than a third of his

mortal life, within its shores.

The peculiarities of his sea-cradle exerted a marked

influence over the development of his character. They

largely determined the special channel in which his

genius ultimately sought its fullest flow. Eminently
catholic, moreover, though he was in all his manifesta

tions and sympathies, he displayed, withal, an insular

quaintness of manner and independence of character to

the end of his days. He suffered also from the compara

tively limited means of education which, in his youth,

the Isle of Man offered to its inhabitants.

   i Historical and Statistical Account of  Joseph George dimming, 1848, p. 283.
the Isle of Man, etc., by Joseph Train,     Both works will be repeatedly referral
1845, vol. ii. p. 383 ; and The Isle of     to in the sequel as Train's Isle of Man,
Man ; its History-- Physical, Kcclcsius-    and dimming" a Isle of Man.
ticnl, Civil, and Legendary, by the Rev.
CHAP. I.          EDWAJOD FORBES.                                      3

A preliminary glance, accordingly, at the history and

characteristics of that curious island, will enable us, be

fore entering into the details of his personal career, to

form an unbiassed judgment as to the influence for good
or evil which its peculiarities exerted upon Edward

Forbes.

    It is impossible to approach the study of the Isle of

Man, without encountering two somewhat formidable

barriers to a better acquaintance with it ; the one, a

vexed discussion among the etymologists as to the origin
and meaning of its name ; the other, a not less troubled
dispute among the heralds as to the significance of its
coat of arms. Both name and arms are singular, and

easily tempt to fanciful interpretations ; nor was the
subject of my memoir behind his countrymen in specu

lating on both.

     The interpretation of the name of Man, of which

IEdward Forbes, think, would most have approved, is

that of the old writer Gildas, who tells us that " The Isle

of Man is seated in the navel of the sea, as it were in the

very midst of all that the kings of Great Britain do com
mand, even as the heart of man is seated in the midst of

his body. The comparison will hold very fitly, for the

heart of man is compassed in a bag of water, called
the pericardium, and therefore the heart of man

may truly be called the Isle of Man."1 On this in

terpretation no philologist could be expected to look

with any favour.

Mr. Train tells us that the inhabitants "call their island

' Manning  ' In ' being an old word  for  '  island                 '  there-
                                                                  ;

           i Quoted by Train. Historical Account, vol. i. p. 39.               ·
4                      MEMOIR OF  CHAP. L

fore, Meadhon-in (pronounced ' Mannin'), signifies lite
rally, ' The middle island.' May this not be the true

derivation of the name V 1

      The statute-book of the island gives another meaning

or origin to the word. " Mannanan-Beg-Mac-y-Leirr, the

first person who held Man, was the ruler thereof, and

after whom the land was named, reigned many years,
and was a paynim. He kept the land under mist by his

necromancy."*

      According to another authority, Manninan was an
ancient Irish name for Neptune, and Man may have
been applied to the island " as the supposed residence

of this god."3
     Bishop Wilson thought the " Isle of Man very pro

bably had the name it goes by now from the Saxon word
' mang,' among, as lying almost at an ecpial distance be

tween the kingdoms of England, Scotland, Ireland, and

IWales but no etymologist, imagine, will for a moment

sanction this derivation. Mr. Cumming refers Man to
the ancient British or Cymric word " Mon," signifying
isolated; or, to another term in the same language,
" Maen," " a pile of stones or rocks."*

    Which one, if any, of those derivations is the true
one, I shall not attempt to decide. It is worth while,

however, to notice, that the word Man yields the pecu
liar adjective Manx, e.g., Manxman, a native of Man :

and that the Latin term Mona, by which the Roman

historians distinguished Man, as well as Anglesey, yields

Monensis, applied, by the subject of this memoir, to his

   i Op. et loc. cit.    » Quiggin'a Guide tltrough the Isle of
                       Man. Sth Ed. 1856, p. 1.
   ' l!tid, Ibitl.
                          * History. Appendix A. p. 256.
CHAT. I.         EDWARD FORBES.                                              5

Catalogue of the Mollusca of the Irish Sea -- Mcdaco-

logia Monensis.

The singular armorial bearings of the island, or rather

the interpretations put upon them, arc still more inter

esting for us than those connected with its name, as

illustrating the determination of the Manxman to be a

Manxman, and not a Briton. Even so late as 1857, the

Rev. J. G. Cumming (who, however, is Manx only by

adoption) writes of his adopted country, " that though
in the midst of the British isles, it is in point of law no
part of them ;J that though a possession of the British
Crown, it is not ruled by the British Parliament ; that

though its people have the rights of British subjects, it

is no part of England, is not goyerned by the laws of

England, and belongs not to England by colonization or

by conquest."2

     The ancient kings of Man of the Norwegian race, had
for their arms a ship, with the motto, " Rex Mannioe et
Insularum," an excellent device for the shield of a sea-

king; but after the Scottish conquest (a. d. 1270), the
present well-known heraldic symbols were introduced.
They consist of " three armed legs, proper, conjoined
in fess at the upper part of the thigh, flexed in tri

angle, garnished and spurred topaz, with the motto,
' Quocunque jeeeris slabit ' (whichever way you shall

                 will stand), surrounding                            in
ihave thrown

                      it,garter."3
                        it

                                                         it
                                                                                »

                                                                                                                          p.

                                                                     it

                                                                                                                                    i.

                                                                                                 a
      Nevertheless, Mr. Walter Cooper          "Die Story of Rushen Castle.  In-
                                          troductory Notice, p. vi.
Dendy has not l>cen afraid to include
                                          'Train's Isle of Man, vol. p. 79.
in the objects discussed in his pleasant  Cumming's IsUo/Man,
and gracefully illustrated volume--                            2G1.
The Beautiful Islcti of Great IiriUtin.

1857.
                                       MEMOIR OF  C1IA1'. L

     The three legs are in themselves innocent enough, and
perhaps meant no more originally than they did in the
ancient shield of Sicily, where they were understood to

symbolize the triangular shape of the island. Man
in a mathematical sense, less perfectly triangular than
                                                  a
                                                                          is,
Sicily, but facing three kingdoms in as many direc

tions,   itgeographically and politically more perfect
triangle.
             isIt possible, also, as Mr. Dendy suggests,
                     is

that the armorial device had originally some connexion

with the legend of three-legged wizard, who, by his
it
                  is

                                    a
spells, covered the island with mists but         so, that
                                                  ;

                                                          if

                                                                            it,
connexion now forgotten however we interpret;1

plainly refers to an essential not an accidental attri

bute of the island.

Ingenious Manx commentators draw our attention to

the fact, that however you turn the shield the attitude

of the legs remains the same, and that no transposition
of the words of the Latin motto alters its meaning.

They differ considerably in the interpretation which

they put on the words and the symbol, but all agree in
finding in them an expression, on the part of Manx-

land, of self-reliance, independence, and neutrality. Ac

cording to one reading, the three spurred feet and

armed heels, defy simultaneously England, Scotland, and

Ireland. According to another, one limb bent, as
                                                  is

                                                                is if
kneeling in allegiance to one of these countries, and

the other two are upraised in defiance of the remainder.
An English writer discovers that the kneeling limb

bent towards England, and the recalcitrating toe and

heel turned towards Scotland and Ireland,8 forgetting

   Beautiful Islets of Great Britain, Si.p.       Ibid. 70.
i                                                 '

                                                                 p.
CHAP. I.            EDWARD FOBBES.                              7

that it was under a Scottish king, Alexander 111., the

symbol was introduced, and that one of its peculiar

virtues    it is, to have the same significance in whatever
                is
direction           turned.

     The intelligent editor of Quiggin's Guide-Book to theof
Isle Man, interprets more modestly and somewhat
differently. " The three legs refer to the relative situa
tion of the island with respect to the neighbouring

nations of England, Scotland, and Ireland, previous to

their union, since which the symbol entirely loses its

propriety, and has become obsolete and unmeaning. .         .
The legs are armed, and while in whatever position they         .

are placed, two of them fall into the attitude of supplica

tion, the third, being upwards and behind, appears to be

kicking at the assailant against whom the other two are

imploring protection. The vis of the symbol that     ; is,      if if

England should seek to oppress the island, would soon
                                              it
engage Ireland or Scotland to afford protection andit

either of these two should assail that would hastenis
                                         it,
to call England to its defence."1 Many are content to

read the motto almost literally, and to understand as
                                                            it

imputing to the Isle of Man, historically personified,          a

cat-like aptitude when knocked about, for alighting on

its feet.* This, certainly, the verdict of history on the

fortunes of Man, which have thriven in spite, and often

because of the troubles of its neighbours and though
                                              ;

the herald of the thirteenth century who devised the three-

legged ensign did not formally prophesy as much, we are
probably not mistaken in thinking that he hid some such

i   Quiggin's Guide-Book to the Isle of       Train's Isle of Man, vol. ii. p. 81.'
Man, p. 32.                              Cumming's Isle of Man, vol. ii. p. 261.
8  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. I.

meaning under his significant symbol. At all events, it
is full of meaning to Manxmen of the present day. To
none was it more expressive than to Edward Forbes.

He had a peculiar fancy, as we shall afterwards find, for
all triangular arrangements. The three-legged Manx
symbol is continually repeated in his note-books, and all
familiar with his History of British Star-Fishes will
remember how prominently it figures in the exquisite
vignette on the title-page of that work.

      The people who thus strongly assert their insular in

dividuality, if regarded as distinctively and historically

Manx, are a Celtic race, speaking a dialect of the Erse,
and more akin to the Irish than to the Scottish or Welsh
Celts. ' The mother of Edward Forbes was of an old

Manx family, and from her he inherited lands in the

island, so that his patriotism as a Manxman was rooted

in the soiL A glance at the fortunes of his insular fore

fathers will prepare us for some of the influences which

moulded his character.

     The history of Manxland begins in the usual mythical
way, and recedes into a region of clouds, where we need
not follow it. From this dim pre-historic dawn, through
which the shadowy figures of lost races of men and mys
tical Druids questionably hover, the Isle of Man emerges
in the end of the third century, at which period, occu

pied as it was by a people who had no written annals or
literature of any kind, it was conquered by an ancient
Scot, called Brule, " who divided the land between him
self and his followers, and the ' original contract' became
the foundation of their laws."1 To Brule succeeded a

                                 i Train's Ide of Man, vol. ii. p. 186.
CHAP. I.  EDWARD FORBES.

dynasty of Welsh princes, who reigned as kings for
nearly four centuries, and added to the Manx statute-
book not a few laws, which remained in force long after

the lawgivers had been driven from the island. They
were dethroned by Norwegian princes, who held Man
for several generations, but were quietly dispossessed in
the early part of the tenth century by Orree or Gorree,

a Scandinavian --probably Danish --Sea Rover, in whose

family the sovereignty remained for more than a hun
dred years. Orree (or Orry) is the most famous of the
kings of Man. He holds the same place in a patriotic
Manxman's heart that Alfred does in that of an Eng
lishman, or Bruce in that of a Scotchman. He owes

this veneration to the laws he gave his people. They
refer to him the territorial divisions of the island

which still exist, the establishment of the Taxioxi (a
jury parliament, now called the House of Keys), and
the reduction, for the first time, of the laws of Man to

writing.

    In the eleventh century, the descendants of Orry were

supplanted by Goddard Crovan, an Icelandic prince,
whose family ruled in Man, with the title of kings, for
nearly two hundred years. These princes were feuda
tories of the Norwegian Crown, and when the ninth and
last of them died in the middle of the thirteenth century,
the Isle of Man was ceded by Norway to the King of

Scotland.

     The people, who were not consulted in this transfer,

gained nothing by the transaction. For nearly a hun
dred and fifty years, the island was continually changing
masters at very short intervals. The Scottish king,
10               MEMOIR OF                   CHAP. I.

Alexander III., held it for a time ; then Edward i. of Eng

    it

          It

                             a it,
                                        a

                                              it
                                                                 it
land took possession of but resigned before long to

John Baliol.  soon reverted to the Crown of England,

but was speedily restored to Scotland by Robert the
Bruce, and in the confusion inseparable from all these

changes, was plundered by band of Irish freebooters

under Richard de Mandeville, who swept over                          in

1316, and after spending month in stripping the island

of everything valuable, made off with their plunder.
Within some twenty years the island was again in pos
session of the English, and in 1344, Edward in. raised
William Montacute, Earl of Salisbury, to the throne of

Man. In 1393, this Earl sold the island to Sir William

Scroop, the King's chamberlain, afterwards Earl of Wilt

shire, " with the title of king, and the right of being

crowned with  a  golden, crown." The golden crown,

however, brought no blessing to the Earl's brows. In

1399, he was beheaded for treason, and Henry iv. trans
ferred the Isle of Man to Henry Percy, Earl of Nor

thumberland. Percy also was soon attainted for treason,

and though allowed to keep his head, was deprived of
the island, which the king conferred upon Sir John

Stanley. This brings us to the year 1406, when the

modern history of the Isle of Man may be regarded as

beginning.

    The house of Stanley, on which, in later generation,
                            a
                                               a
the earldom of Derby was conferred, ruled the island for
more than three centuries, with the exception of brief

interregnum (1652-1660) during the Commonwealth,
when Lord Fairfax held its sovereignty. For the first

century of their rule, the Stanleys reigned as kings, but
CHAP. L  EDWARD FORBES.  11

in 1505, Thomas, grandson of the first earl, "succeeded

to the title of Earl of Derby and King of Man ; but pre

ferring, as is stated by a subsequent earl in a letter to
his son, ' to be a great lord rather than a petty king,' he
relinquished the royal designation, and thereafter assumed

only the title of Lord of Man."1 In 1736, James, the
tenth earl, and thirteenth in the Manx dynasty, died
without surviving issue, and the Lordship of Man passed

by the female line to James Murray, second Duke of

Athol, in right of his grandmother, Lady Amelia Sophia
Stanley, daughter of James, the great Earl of Derby,
who was beheaded by the Parliamentary forces, in 1651,
for his services to the Stuarts.

     The Dukes of Athol held the lordship of Man through
three generations extending nearly over a century ; but
even before their accession the island had become such a

thorn in the side of Great Britain, as a nest of smugglers
and questionable refugees, that she had resolved to take

it into her own hands. A change of dynasty made this

more easy, and the Dukes of Athol finding that nothing
remained for them but to resign their lordship with as

good a grace, and on as favourable terms as possible,
reluctantly sold their birthright ; and the Isle of Man,
partially ceded to England in 1765, passed in 1829
under the direct rule of the British Crown.

     The peculiar laws of the island, however, were scarcely

interfered with. At present " the Civil Government of
the Isle of Man is vested in three estates -- the Queen

in Council, the Governor and Council, and the House of

Keys. These last two estates together constitute a Court

                                  i Train's Isle of Man, vol. L p. 167.
12  MEMOIR OF                                                                          CHAP. L

of Tynwald ; and the concurrence of the three is essen
tial to every legislative act."1

    It is necessary here to enter a little more particularly

into the later history of the island.
      The Isle of Man steadily advanced in prosperity under

the House of Stanley, and whilst civil war was desolat

ing the neighbouring countries, knew almost uninter
rupted peace ; but in the end this peace proved fatal to

ilits independence. After the Restoration of Charles

down to the close of the seventeenth century, it was little

interfered with by Great Britain. England, Scotland,
and Ireland, were alike distracted with revolutions and

rebellions, and left the Manxmen to their own guidance.
For a season the Isle of Man was practically a republic.
The eighth Earl of Derby (1660-1672) had simulta
neously lost the favour of his subjects and his king by
the execution of William Christian (1663),2 and Tynwald
Courts were held without the presence or sanction of the

Lord Superior. In consequence of this state of matters
the Isle of Man became again a centre of attraction to
sea-rovers, but instead of Norse pirates it now welcomed

French and Dutch smugglers. The native Manxmen

were not originally to blame for the bad repute into
which these modern buccaneers brought their island. As

early as 1670, a company of adventurers from Liverpool
settled at Douglas for the avowed purpose of carrying on
a contraband trade with the surrounding shores ;3 but

   i Quiggin's Guide to the Isle of Man,  ' Train, from ·whom this statement is
p. 77.
                                          taken {Isle of Man, vol. ii. p. 306), re-
   * One of the posthumous heroes of      fers to an  aonlddear dhdsis, tor"iasnuchof
Sir Walter Scott's Peveril of the Peak.   Bullock,                                     the island,
Ho is referred to more specially in the                                                advantages
                                          were held out by these illicit traffickers,
sequel.
                                          as they were then called, to merchants
CHAP. L     EDWARD FORBES.                                                                          13

they soon tempted the Manx people to abet them, andit
before long the great body of the islanders abandoned
their pastoral pursuits and fisheries to become carriers ofis,
illicit goods. That they should have done so is not verya
surprising. They could justify their smuggling transac
tions by better arguments than most communities can.if
They were not only as slow as the less conscientious mass
                                                                                                 ;
of mankind have always been to acknowledge that smug
gling is both a crime and a sin, and as much disposed asit
that majority always to hold with the Spartans, that
            is
at the utmost becomes crime only discovered buta
they could plead that they broke no Manx law by smug
gling, and that they enriched, instead of impoverishing,
the insular treasury by their illicit traffic. For its exist

ence, accordingly, the English and Scottish Lords of
Man, including, however, their constitutional Manx ad

visers, must bear the chief blame.

     The eighth Earl of Derby, under whose lordship of

Man systematic smuggling began, died before had ac
quired a sure footing in the island, and was probably but
slightly responsible for its encouragement. His son and
successor, the ninth Earl (1672-1702), sanctioned, in
1696, the passage of Tynwald act permitting all and
every person and persons of any kingdom or nation,
whose prince at peace with the Crown of England, to
enjoy, as residents of the Isle of Man, the same privilege

as subjects of England had enjoyed. It would be un

charitable to impute unworthy motives to the enactors of

engaged in the foreign trade, that many   goes." In this way the English duties
ships laden with the produce of the East  were evaded, and the goods lightly taxed
and West Indies, touched at the island    by the Manx authorities, were then
and met with ready sale for their ear-    smuggled into Great Britain.
         a
14  MEMOIR OF                             CHAP. L

this law, which, in truth, was but the tardy abrogation
of a restriction to free intercourse with the island, im

posed at a time when great jealousy of Scotland prevailed.

In itself both just and politic, this enactment secured an

asylum for the Protestant refugees from Ireland, and a

hiding-place for the Jacobite wanderers on whose heads a
price was set in Scotland but it also tempted wealthy

men; from all the surrounding shores to carry their capital

to the Isle of Man, and invest it in the profitable iniquity

of smuggling. Many capitalists, accordingly, took up

their residence in the island, and provided remunerative

employment for its humbler inhabitants. How welcome

moneyed men were, may best be inferred from the fact

that in 1702, Lord Derby, the tenth Earl and last Lord

of Man of the House of Stanley, farmed the revenue of

the island to a merchant in Liverpool, for £1000 per

annum ;a and in 1710 advanced to his subjects the loan

of a hundred pounds,3 which, with his approval, they ex

pended in a vain attempt to prevent their fiscal laws

being altered by the English Parliament. The smallness
of the loan, and the use to which it was put are equally

significant, as showing the poverty of both lord and

people, and their unanimity in regarding smuggling as

its cure. They showed this by deeds even more than by

words. The wilder spirits became sailors under skilful

and daring commanders, chiefly foreigners, who despised

alike the terrors of the law and the tempest, and, quite
ready to measure their strength with the king's cruisers,

   i David Forbes, the great-grandfather  described more fully in the succeeding
of the subject of this Memoir, was one    chapter,
of the many adherents of the Stuarts
                                            * Train's Isle of Man, vol. i. p. 244.
who, after 17-15, profited by the enact-     · Ibid. vol. ii. p. 308.
ment under notice to settle in Man, as
CHAP. L  EDWARD FORBES.                   15

repeated the feats of the ancient Vikings on the shores
of Man.1 The less adventurous natives of humble rank

ciirricd contraband goods in their wherries to the adja
cent shores, and attended the landings of the vessels ;
whilst the wealthier islanders (in most cases, Manxmen
only by adoption) erected ample subterraneous cellars
as secret storehouses for their unlawful merchandise.
With the exception, accordingly, of an upright protesting

minority, eloquently represented by good Bishop Wilson
(1697-1755), the Isle of Man exhibited the singular
spectacle of an entire community deliberately engaged
in " the smuggling Trade" as one of themselves naively
called it. So conducive was it to the pecuniary interests

of Mauxland, and so correspondingly injurious to those
of Great Britain, that early in the eighteenth century
the annual loss to the revenue of the imperial kingdom
amounted, on the lowest estimate, to several hundred
thousand pounds, and many rated it at half a million

sterling.8 Such a state of matters could not be tolerated
by the British Crown. One of her dependencies had
been openly converted into a nest of plunderers who
intercepted her revenues, defrauded her honest mer
chants, and demoralized her people. Nor, as compensa
tion for this, could it be shown that the native Manxmen
were real or permanent gainers by their illicit traffic.

All authorities agree in affirming that by far the larger
share of its profits fell into the hands of strangers.3 In
1726, accordingly, an Act of Parliament was passed,

   i The Dirk Hatteraik of Scott's Guy    Irish Sea. Not less daring were the
Afannering is a picture from life of one
                                          French, Irish, and Welsh buccaneers.
of the Dutch smugglers who long held        * Train's Isie of Man, vol. ii. p. 819.
his own against desperate odds in the        « Ibid. p. 308.
16  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. I.

authorizing, as it was phrased, the Earl of Derby to dis
pose of his Manx royalty and revenue, and empowering

the Lords of the Treasury to purchase them from him.
The Earl, however, had no wish to sell his birthright, and
succeeded in putting obstacles in the way of the sale, so
that he died in possession.

      The lordship of Man now passed to the House of

Murray (1736), represented by the Dukes of Athol, the

second of whom succeeded the last Stanley. Whether
the Duke would have been in any degree successful, had
he tried to abolish smuggling, may well be doubted, but
he made no attempt towards doing so. On the other

hand, as if to incense Great Britain still farther, he

signalized his accession to the lordship by sanctioning
the passing of a Tynwald Act, which practically pre
vented any sojourner in the island from being prosecuted

for debts incurred in England or abroad.1 A more un

patriotic act was never passed, yet it must have been
recommended to the Duke by his Manx councillors, for
he was a perfect novice in Manx law when he sanc
tioned this statute (1736), along with thirteen others.

Through the self-denying and unwearied labours of
the apostolic Bishop Wilson, the temporal and spiritual
condition of the island was rapidly improving, in spite
of the demoralizing influence of the illicit traffic, when
this Protection Act, as it was afterwards called, " ren
dered Man," in the words of its historian, " for nearly a
century afterwards, the sanctuary of the unfortunate
and profligate of the surrounding nations, who flocked
thither in such numbers as to make it a common recep

                                i Train's Isle of Man, vol. i. p. 239.
ICHAP.  EDWARD FORBES.                         17

tacle for the basest of their kind.1 No doubt the flock

ing .was limited chiefly to the seaports, but it tainted the
whole island more or less, and the honest and the up

right were involved in the stigma which the protection
of fraudulent debtors, and other knaves, brought upon

the Manxmen as a people.2 The Duke, however, who
passed this act, not only succeeded in retaining posses

sion of the island during his lifetime, but was furnished
by the coronation of George, in. in 1761, with an oppor

tunity of doing homage to the king for the lordship of
Man ; and as his services were accepted, he was recon
firmed in his rights and privileges as Lord of Man. But
when he died, three years after, and was succeeded by
his son-in-law, the third Duke of Athol, who, in right of
his wife, became possessed of the Isle of Man, the Lords

of the Treasury lost no time in pressing for its sale
(1764). They significantly hinted, at the same time,
that as Government was determined to put down the
Manx system of smuggling, another mode of dealing

would be adopted if the Duke did not accept their terms.

He temporized for a while; but as within a year a bill
was brought into Parliament to abolish " the clandestine
and illicit trade carried into and from the Isle of Man,"

which threatened to strip him, without any remuneration,

   i Train's Isle of Man, vol. i. p. 23P.      " When Sathano tried his arts in vaine,
                                                  Ye worship of j'e Lord to gaine,
   · Sir Walter Scott's allusion to the          Ye yird, he said, and all be thine
condition of the island at this time, in
the introduction to Peveril of the Peak,          Except ane place, it maun be mine.
is not more favourable ; and, from all            Though bare it is, and scarce a span,
the accounts of its demoralization, one           By mortals called ye Yslc of Man ;
is tempted to think that the bitter satire       That is a place I cannot spare,
passed upon the Isle of Man two cen               For all my choicest friends are there !"
turies before, must have been prophetic        --Irvine's II\Atori<r Kcotica: Nomencln-
of the time we are considering :--
                                               tura. Edin. Edit., 1G82. Quoted in
                                               Train's Isle of Man, p. 30.

                                            B
18  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. I.

of his Manx possessions, he came to terms. According
to these he sold the island in 1765 for £70,000, and

an annuity of £2000, but reserving certain rights to his
duchess and to himself, and to their successors. He was

succeeded in 1774 by his son, the fourth Duke of Athol,.
and last Lord of Man, whom these reserved rights brought
into collision both with the Manx Legislature and the

English Government. These disputes were, after many
struggles, partially compromised in 1805, " by an ad
ditional grant of £3000 per annum to the Duke and
his heirs for ever;" and finally, tired of continual con
flicts with his refractory Manx subjects, he " made a
complete surrender into the hands of Government of all
his rights," for a sum of £416,000, and the privileges of
lordship passed to the British crown. This was in 1829.

The opprobrious protection-act had been repealed in

1814 (the year before Edward Forbes was born) ; and
the unprincipled fugitives, who threw a stigma on the

island, made haste to flee to other refuges. A fatal blow

had been dealt to the smuggling interests by the partial
sale of Man in 1765 ; and finally, though by slow de
grees, its illicit traffic was reduced to insignificance.

      The insular Legislature was, from 1765, allowed to
enact laws as before, with only the proviso that they must

be sanctioned by the King or Queen Regnant, before they
are published at the Tynwald Court as statute law.1 No
right, indeed, except the supposed " right of doing
wrong," was taken from Manxland ; it retains privileges
possessed by no other part of the United Kingdom, and
signally profits by them. Yet we cannot wonder that

                                 >Train's Isle of Man, vol. i. p. 249.
CHAP. I.  EDWARD FORBES.                               19

upright patriotic Manxmen, to whom neither exciseman
nor creditor had ever been an object of alarm, should

wish that it were still, as of old, the Kingdom of Man,
not one of the islets of Great Britain. So thought Ed

Iward Forbes,-- and here, better than elsewhere, may
Iquote a song, although it is not one of his best, which

have found among his papers, bearing date 1833, when

he was in his eighteenth year :--

                                                 I.

                         Ob ! lament for the days that are past and gone,
                             When the sun of glory bright,

                         On the fairest isle of the ocean shone
                             With freedom's holy light ;

                         When the golden ship on a field of red,
                             Bcnmcd forth on the flag of the free,

                         And the king of the green land bowed bis bend
                             To the king of the ocean sea.

                                                II.

                         Would the Saxon dare to draw his brand
                             Were Orry with us now?

                         Would the Albion dare to lift bis band
                         Were the crown on King Olaf 'a brow ?

                      But in the sleep of death they lie --
                         Their glory has passed away --

                         And the children of their chivalry
                         A Saxon king obey.

                                           III.

                         Oh ! where was the blood of the kings of old,
                             When Athol sold his throne ?

                         When our chieftain bartered his rights for gold,
                             Was this like Orry's son ?

                         Our isle is still as bright, as fair,
                         Its sons arc still as free,

                         But a stranger monarch reigneth there,
                             On the throne of the Kings of the Sea.'

     With this song none but Manxmen need pretend to
sympathize. Patriotism is an instinct of all races, al-

  i The preceding historical sketch will  Three kings of that name ruled in Man,
render all the allusions in the song in
telligible, except that to King Olaf.     if,the first a grandson of Orry's, the others
                                          Olnve L and  of another and later
I20
MEMOIR OP                                CHAP.

though it becomes active only in the nobler ones ; and
the patriotism of individuals identifies itself with the
visible objects within the horizon of their cradle or dwell

ing-place, concentrating itself upon a mountain or a
chain of hills, the river-bed of a solitary green valley, or
the streets and spires of a simple town. The native of a

small independent island has this advantage over the
native of a vast continent, that he can compass in ima

gination his whole fatherland, and, if need be, die sweetly

and decorously for a larger country than was ever real
ized as theirs by the subjects of the Roman Caesar or the

Russian Czar.

      The Isle of Man is but a small fatherland, yet it is
rich in historical monuments and in natural beauties to a

degree few regions of similar extent are, and it quickly
persuades settlers in it from other regions to rejoice in
the title of Manxmen. To Edward Forbes its natural

charms were of more interest than its architectural ruins

or archaeological remains ; but, in truth, the time-
honoured monuments of a country, which have been
witnessed from early childhood, side by side with its

 great natural features, are unconsciously identified with

the latter, as if they were part of them. The fortress,
 and the rock on which it stands, have been where we see

 them ever since we remember, together constituting what
 seems a natural whole, and as such giving a character to

dynasty. The last, known in Manx         whims to leave the Manx reader to
history as Olave the Black, is perhaps   choose which Olaf or Olave he pleased,
the most famous of the three, and pro    or to include all three. See, in refer
                                         ence to these rulers, the second volume of
bably the one referred to in the song j  Train's Isle of Man, and the catalogue of
but the second, Olave the Dwarf, waa     Kings and Bishops in Cuinming's iStvry

also a man of mark. It would be quite    of Rushen Castle.

in keeping with the author's pleasant
CHAP. L  EDWARD FORBES.  21

the landscape. Some notice, therefore, must be taken
of the historical monuments of Man. They abound in

every corner of the island. " It has within itself," says

Mr. Cumming, " more antiquities in the shape of crom
lechs, stone circles, crosses, ruined churches, and castles,

than any other of like extent in the British Isles."1
      Of these antiquities, the most generally interesting are

Rushen Castle, Peel Castle, and the Tynwald Hill. Rushen
Castle, near Castleton, the capital of the island, and situated

near its southern shore, is a considerable fortress, founded,

according to tradition, about the tenth century, by the

famous King Orry. To Manxmen it is dear as having
been the palace of their ancient rulers, and the House of
Parliament of the estate of the realm. Beyond Manx-
land it is interesting from having figured in the Great

Rebellion, and perhaps not less from the prominence
assigned to it in one of Sir Walter Scott's most popular

fictions. In Peveril of the Peak, Lord and Lady Derby,
as King and Queen of Man, and Colonel Christian as the
judicial victim of the latter after she was made a widow,

besides many imaginary persons, are associated with the
fortunes of Rushen Castle in the days of the English
Stuarts. This Countess of Derby, Charlotte de la Tre-
mouille, is famous in history for her heroic and successful
defence of Latham House against the Roundheads. Her
husband James, the seventh Earl of Derby, a brave sol

dier and devoted Royalist, held Rushen Castle for the
king till shortly before the battle of Worcester, when he
joined the cavaliers in arms in England for Charles u.
Soon after that fatal fight, he was taken prisoner and

                   i The Story of Itushen Castle, Introduction, Note, p. 1.
22  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. I.

beheaded as a traitor. Manx Royalists regard him as a

martyr worthy to rank beside the martyr-king.

    A martyr of an opposite complexion is presented by

Colonel Christian, who, after the Earl's death, surrendered

Rushen Castle to the Parliamentary troops, and gave up
the Countess and her children as prisoners. After the

Restoration he was brought to trial by the Countess of

Derby, notwithstanding the general pardon proclaimed
by Charles n. ; was condemned to death, and shot pub
licly. The Countess justified herself by the bold plea

that the King of England's pardon did not cover treason
to the Lords of Man, but her subjects did not sym-
pathize with this mode of vindicating the independence
of Manxland. In popular estimation, Christian was a
martyr in the cause of liberty. Iliam Dhone, i.e., the
fair-haired William, is the Wallace of Manxland, and

the maidens still sing, in their ancient Celtic tongue, a
lament over his untimely fate.

      Peel Castle lies on the east side of the Isle of Man,

about eight miles distant from Rushen Castle. It is

now in ruins, but so long as Man was a separate king
dom or principality, it was a fortress reputed impreg
nable. At the present day, its dark and crumbling walls
form a striking object in the landscape, and history and

romance have combined to render them memorable.

They occupy a small rocky islet, converted by an arti
ficial causeway of modern erection into a peninsula. The
outer walls of the fortress embrace an area of some two
acres, within which, besides the castle proper, are the
ruins of four very ancient churches, one the Cathedral of
St. Germanus, first bishop of " the most ancient existing
CHAP. I.     EDWARD FORBES.                                23

ace of the British Isles," and anothcr, the still older

church of St. Patrick. The centre of the walled area is

occupied by the grass-grown remains of what is supposed
to have Wn a Danish square fort, and Inside
             is                                            on the
                         a

                                        by
                                                                                                  ;
                                                                 it,

                                                                                    ;a
summit of the islet, stands a tall Round Tower, similar

to those found so abundantly in Ireland. Other archi

tectural relics, ecclesiastical and civil, of unknown anti

quity, are crowded within the castle walls for St.

Patrick's Islet, first as place easily defended, and after

wards as one rendered sacred  its churches, seems to

have been regarded by the ancient Manx builders as

peculiarly suitable site for important edifices.

Peel Castle much older than Rushcn Castle. The

       ruined cathedrals carry us back at least to the fifth;a
       century, and the introduction of Christianity into Man
       and ruins still more ancient survive from pre-Christiana
       times. Traditions, coeval with the buildings, record
       their fortunes, and foim an important part of the mythi-a
· cal and actual history of Man.a

           In later times, the kings of England occasionally
      employed Peel Castle as state prison. Earl Warwick,

       the king-maker, was consigned to the dungeons for
      season by Richard II. and the haughty Duchess of Glou

       cester, Shakspere's "presumptuous dame, ill-nurtured
      Eleanor,"1 banished to the Isle of Man by Henry vi.
      for witchcraft, wore out lengthened captivity within
       its walls. Death at length released her from bondage,
       but, according to tradition current for centuries, she

      nightly rose from her grave as midnight tolled, and her
      troubled spirit was seen gliding along the battlements,

          i  Second Tart of King lfenry VI. Act Rrenc ii.
                              I.
24                     MEMOIR OF                                                            CHAP. I.

or gazing intently from a watch tower till cockcrow

announced early dawn.

     Peel Castle was haunted by another ghost, more fami
liar to most readers than the " extravagant and errant
spirit " of " that proud dame, the Lord Protector's wife."
This was the Manthe Dotj or Moddy Dhoo, " a fiend or

demon in the shape of a large, shaggy, black mastiff,"
which paid a nightly visit to the guard room of the
Castle, and retreated by day into one of the ruined

churches within its walled area. It was one of the

favourite apparitions of Sir Walter Scott. He makes,

rather than finds, occasion in Peveril of the Peak (vol.
                                                                                            is
chap.  to bring in from old Waldron, the loving chroni
       5)                                                                                                         ii.
                                        is
cler of the supcrstitions of Alan, the legend of a soldier

·lying speechless and terror stricken after a wilful ren

contre with the demon dog. In the Lay of the Last

Minstrel, also, Deloraine compared to him

                            "Of whom the glory lan
               Thut spoke thn spcutru-houml in Man."i

      About three miles from Peel, towards the centre of

the island, stands, in valley, the Tynwald Hill or
    Mount. It  is
                  a

                                   a
               circular mound, some twelve feet high,

    consisting, according to tradition, of earth originally

    brought from each of the seventeen parishes of the

ly >     WaWl run's legend, in all probability,it   They are such, in some respects, even
    would never have passed beyond Hie           for Manxmen. Thu Manx cicerone shows
    hounds oI' Maii, but for the intercut        lho stranger the very sallyport through
    excited in Sir Walter Scott. And ho          which Julian 1'everil and Fenellu issued

    has done more for l'ecl Castle than mere-    when they left the Castle. Scott's ima-

        preserve the memory of its spectre-      ginary ellin has dispossessed Dame Elea-
    houml. The characters in 1'everil of         nor of her historical as well as her
                                                 ghostly connexion with its walls. Ke-
    the l'eak are, for most English visitors     nella, indeed, is as truly the genius loci,
    to the Isle of Man, more vivid realities     in English eyes, of Castles Kusheu and
                                                 l'eel, as llamlet of that of Elsinole.
    than the historical personages whom its

    chronicles name.
CHAP. L        EDWARD FORBES.                                                           25

island. This earth has been so built as to form plat                                    it
                                                                                          is it is,
forms or ledges, which encircle the mound, except at its
eastern side, where a flight of steps cut in the turf gives
access to each of the platforms and to the summit. The
whole hill is covered with grass, and was once surrounded

by a ditch and rampart. The name of this mount, Tyn-
wald, is believed to be derived from the Scandinavian
Thing, signifying the Hill of Justice or Mount of As
sembly.1 For eight centuries or more, the inhabitants
of Man have assembled once a year, or oftener, on this
turf-clad forum, the king or lord sitting " on a chaire,
covered with a royall cloath," the officers of state ranged
round him on the platforms according to their rank, and
the commons " standing without the circle of the hill,"
and spreading over the valley. Even at the present
day, though Man has lost both king and lord, there is
annual proclamation made of all the laws which have

been passed during the year, nor is a statute of Queen

Victoria's held binding in the Isle of Man, till it has
been thus proclaimed in Manx and English.

      The Tynwald assembly is remarkable as a Scandina

vian institution cherished among a Celtic people. It

however, but one among a multitude of tokens of the
struggles which the island has witnessed between con
flicting races and opinions. On all sides such memorials

                  "Tynwald, written in the chronicles  or rampart,' and have connected
' ' 'a       of Rushen, Tinr/ttnlla, the Thingvmll         '
   i         of Iceland, the Danish Thingr'illr (pro                   *'
             nounced Tingwnller, the ew sounded'       with the fencing the court,' as
           ''      is
             French fashion), the Fields of the Ju     called, before proceeding to the busi
                              '
             dicial Assembly.' The term thing'         ness of the thing' or assize. The Danes
               Scandinavian equivalent of the Snxonis
              mote nnd appears in our modern word      have left the name of Tingwall in the

               hustings.' Some have derived the term   Orkneys and in Cheshire, and of Ding
               wald from the Danish void, 'hank
                                                       wall in Ross-shire." -- Tht  Story of Rush-
                                                                                     G. Gumming,
                                                       J.en Ctutle, by the Rev.

                                                       p.  7.

               a
                             '
26  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. I.

abound. Glen Darragh, with its so-called Dmidical circle
of stones -- a diminutive Stonehenge. Kirk-Braddan,
with its sepulchral crosses and ancient tombs, lying
beside more ancient Runic monuments, in the shadow

of dark foliaged trees. Ballasulla, or Rushen Abbey, the
last monastery which fell at the Reformation. Gloomy

Kirk Mallen, with its carvings of old kings. The ar
chaic crossag, narrowest of bridges. The vestiges of St.

Bridget's cells, and the succeeding nunnery, whose prior

ess held baronial courts, and was temporal as well as

spiritual ruler of her vassals. The roofless walls of Kirk

Trinian, whose great antiquity may be measured by the
unusual size of the trees which have usurped its aisles.
The Holy Spring of St. Manghold, blessed with mineral
virtues, to which for centuries pilgrimages have been
made. The ordeal rocks, on which nuns suspected of

breaking their vows had their innocence tested, or rather

their guilt prejudged. Slieuwhallin (the Hill of the

Dog), with its smooth slope, stretching a thousand feet,
down which, from the summit of the hill, convicted
witches were rolled in barrels stuck full of spikes.

      These are but some of the memorials which crowd the

Isle of Man, standing side by side, though representing
different ages, like the uncontemporaneous events which
are recorded in the same page of an almanac.

     The people of whom these memorials are relics were
men of different races. When the Isle of Man first
dawns upon history, it is apparently occupied by an off
shoot of the Irish branch of the great Celtic family. As
time goes on, Icelandic, Norwegian, Danish, Welsh, Irish,
Scottish, and English sea-rovers in turn, or together, in
CHAP. L  EDWARD FORBES.  27

vaded and occupied it. In later times, also, as we have
seen, it attracted religious and political refugees, besides

smugglers and debtors, from the neighbouring kingdoms,
including France and Holland, so that on its limited area
many races have met and mingled their blood. Among
those, therefore, entitled, as born in the island, to the

appellation of Manxmen, even when their forefathers
have been residents in it for several generations, there
must often be great differences in lineage, although their
common employment of the Manx language may con
ceal this. Whilst the word " Manxman," therefore, has
in one respect as wide a meaning as Englishman, it
specially denotes the descendants of the ancient Celtic
inhabitants of the island, who have in successive genera
tions occupied the island for probably a thousand years.
They are still to be found in upland farms and seques

tered nooks, a simple, primitive, intensely superstitious,
but kindly people, marrying among themselves, and
keeping aloof from other races. Unlike their Irish an
cestors, they have no written literature, except, in later
times, a few translations, as of the Bible, executed at the

instance of Englishmen. Like the Scottish Celts, how
ever, they have transmitted by oral tradition the legend
ary history of their race from remote generations, and
their faith in the supernatural is unbounded. Sir Walter
Scott, who had studied the superstitions of all classes of
his countrymen, declared that " tales of goblins, ghosts,
and spectres, legends of saints and demons, of fairies, of
familiar spirits, in no corner of the British dominions arc
told and received with more absolute credulity than in

the Isle of Man."
28  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. I.

      Supernatural beings, indeed, are for these primitive
Manxmen realities so certain, that they will not cross
their thresholds after dark, unless in company, lest they

fall into the hands of malignant demons. In stormy
winter nights they retire early to rest, leaving their turf-

fires burning, that the shivering fairies may gather in

peace round the hospitable hearth. In medicine, as prac

tised by surgeons or physicians, they have no faith. The
sufferers from cholera in 1832, were treated only by
charms, and plants of alleged mystical virtue ; and when
small-pox was making great ravages in the Isle of Man
in 1837, the people in general refused to allow their
children to be vaccinated. To University graduates they
prefer a race of home-bred practitioners, called Seers,
whose functions exactly correspond to those of the medi

cine-men of the Red Indians. Till one of these Seers

has blessed his seed-corn, the farmer will hardly sow
however propitious the weather may be. When the be
nediction has been omitted in Spring, and in consequence,
as the Seers teach, the Autumn produce of the unblessed
seed devoured by sparrows, the Manx medicine man

sent for to exorcise them. So late as 1833 these prover
bially self-asserting little birds were seen by Manxmen
to draw up at the edge of the charmed field, which they
had formerly ravaged, and content themselves with gazing
wistfully on the tempting grain! The Seer who thus

controlled the sparrows found no difficulty, when the
potato disease visited the island, in preserving in a state
of vigorous vegetation every tuber intrusted to his care.

He was able to do this, according to his own account,
in consequence of his knowing that the disease of the
    is
                                                                                     is it,
CHAP. I.  EDWARD FORBES.                                                                                         29

potato was occasioned by the malevolence of the fairies,
for whom he was more than a match.

The Manx sod's, however, are in some respects excelled

in power by the Manx witches, who, in spite of them,

injure and often kill cattle and horses. Such, at least,
is the lingering faith of the island. Even so recently
as 1844, a poor woman was not only tried before a Manx

jury for bewitching her brother-in-law's cattle, but was

deliberately interrogated on oath, as to whether she had
" ever come in any shape or form," to do her brother-in-

law or his goods any injury.
     Whilst the trial was proceeding, some wag made an

experiment on the credulity of the jury, by suddenly
letting loose a wild rabbit in the court-room. A scene

of great panic and confusion ensued, accompanied by
          " The witch the witch " which only ended
cries     a of,

                                                   I!

                                                Q
                                                     it,

                                                                                      I
when spectator, more daring than his neighbours, seized

the harmless creature and killed triumphantly exclaim
ing, " You shall not trouble        -- [the owner of the be
witched cattle] again "l

Credulity and superstition as great may, doubtless, be

found in many other districts of Great Britain, but the

acknowledgment of this will not relieve Manxmen from
the charge of being, like the ancient Athenians, in all

things too superstitious.

    It would seem, indeed, as the lingering remnant of

the cloud of supernatural beings, grim or gentle visitants

from Demonland or Fairyland, who once roamed at their
will over Europe, now, as one by one, from shore after
i
                                                            p.

                                   if

                                                                                                             is
    Trnin'ii Isie of Man, vol. ii.  170. Train's account                                                         abridged from the
Nona's Herald, Jan. 10, 1844.
30  MEMOIR OF                                                 CHAP. L

shore, " the parting genius is with sighing sent," delay
their return to Spiritland for a brief season, among the
credulous and kindly peasants of Man.

      Besides those weird companions, the Manxmen cherish

certain strange flesh-and-blood creatures, which afford
additional proofs of the isolation of their home. Of these

the least familiar to strangers are the haghtyns, a dimi
nutive breed of brown-fleeced sheep, now nearly extinct ;
and the purrs, an odd-looking race of pigs, which are
also dying out. Much better known than either, and
possessed of undiminished vitality, is the singular tailless
cat of the island, with long hind-legs, like those of a
hare or a rabbit, and awkward, slouching gait, compat
ible, however, with very nimble though ungraceful move
ments. When the breed first appeared in the island, or

how it originated, is unknown. It threatens to become

scarce, in consequence of individuals being carried off
from the island as curiosities, whilst cats of the common

breed arc introduced in their place. Crosses between
the two breeds readily occur, presenting all kinds of
modifications between the contour of the parents, espe
cially conspicuous in the dimensions of the tail and hind

limbs.1

   i Edward Forbes says of this animal :   the Spanish Armada, wrecked on the
--"The only remarkable quadruped pe
culiar to the Island, and of which it can  southern shore of the Island ; but it is
                                           only a tradition. -- Cumming's Isle of
boast, is the tailless cat, an accidental  Man. Train, who is no naturalist,

variety of the common species, Felis       however praiseworthy a historian,
Cuius, frequently showing no traces of
caudal vertebra, and in others a merely    propounds the monstrous doctrine
rudimental substitute for it." -- Quig-
                                           that the Manx cat is a cross between a
giu'a (Juide to lhe Isle of Man, chap,
iv. , which was written by Mr. Forbes.     common cat and a rabbit ! and gravely

   A Manx tradition represents the pro     supports this proposition by the state
genitors of these odd cats, as having
been landed from one of the ships of       ment, that, within his knowledge, tail

                                           less rabbit-cats originated in this way in

                                           the neighbourhood  of a warren in

                                           Galloway. -- Train's Isle of Man. It
ciiAr. i.  EDWARD FORBES.                                                                  31

    I have reserved to the last the consideration of the

physical aspect of the Isle of Man, as that which most
influenced Edward Forbes. The most distinctive features
in Manx scenery, in addition to the architectural memo
rials already referred to, are the mountains, the glens, the

sea-cliffs, and the shore bays.
      From north-east to south-west, down the centre of the

island, runs a mountainous ridge, along which occur, at
irregular distances, gigantic knobs or bosses, rising to
more than a thousand feet above the level of the sea.

Chief among these stands, at double that height, Snaefell,
verdant to the summit, in spite of its Norse name, signi
fying mountain of snow ; and at either end of the chain
are North and South Barrule, apple-shaped hills, as the
name implies, the former lower than Snaefell by only
150 feet, the latter rising to 1500 feet above the sea-
level. Besides those lofty domes which, even when least
rounded, rise into cones rather than peaks, lowlier emin
ences stud the island, except at its northern extremity.
Here the Curragh, extending for fifty square miles as a
grassy plain, in some places fertile as a garden, in others
an unfruitful swamp or peat-moss, approaches to within
sixty feet of the sea-level. Beyond this, towards the

  is wholly neediess to criticise this in                           according to well-known law recog
                                                                          a
  credible story ; and as for the confirma                          nised by naturalists.a Though not so
  tory fact which he alleges that the female
  Manx-cat never breeds, every Manxman                              graceful or easy in its movements as thea
  will smile at it ! I can myself disprove                          common cat, -- which has more symmetri
  but special proof needless.
                                                                    cal limbs, and tail which serves the
     The Manx cat every inch cat, not
    cat- rabbit, or rabbit-cat, but simply
    cat. It not common cat without
  tail, but such cat with compensation
  for the missing member in long hind
  limbs, and in slighter modifications vis

  ible to the anatomist in other organs,
           is                                                       purpose of rudder in guiding or balanc
                 a
                                                                    ing its body whilst in motion,-- the Manx
                    a a is is
aa                                  a                               cat better leaper, in virtue of its longis
                                                                    hind-legs. A male and female were ina
                                              a
                                                             a it,  my possession at different periods, for

                                                                    many months, and can testify to their
                                                                                        I

                                                                    exhibiting in perfection all the feline

                                                                    virtues and vices.
32  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. L

north, an undulating ridge of mounds, forming the Hills
of Kirkbride, poorly repeats the giant chain of the south,
and ends in a waste of sand and gravel, which, barely
clear of the waves, stretches northwards to the Point of

Ayre.

    All the hills may be climbed without difficulty, and

all will repay the labour of ascent. None rewards the

climber more than Snaefell, or brings into view a grander
and more varied panorama. On its green summit, the
spectator, lifted two thousand feet above the sea, stands,
as it were, in the centre of the British Isles, and on a

summer day looks down upon three thousand square
miles of land and ocean. Skiddaw and Snowdon, CrifFel

and the hills of Morne, greet him from England and

Wales, Scotland and Ireland. The lesser eminences and

lower grounds on the distant mainlands, with their end
less diversities of hill and dale, and their shifting
shadows, recede in long perspective towards the horizon,
whilst the nearer points, mapped out in bird's-eye view,
are seen as the eagle sees them. Between the visible
shores spreads the blue sea, studded with ships of all
nations, and dotted near the land with fishing-boats,
hovering like birds over their prey.

     At the feet of the spectator, the island unveils at the
same moment every object on its surface --wild heath-

covered hills, the haunts of fairies ; romantic glens, with

their babbling brooks, flashing like silver between the

trees that bend over them ; rude hamlets ; fishing-
villages ; busy towns ; rural palaces ; ancient churches ;
war-worn castles ; ruins older than history ; lighthouses

sleeping in the sun till their hour of night watch re
CHAP. L  EDWARD FORBES.                             33

turns ; harbours busy with the  stir of sea-faring   men ;
and the shore visibly widening  and contracting     as the
tide ebbs and flows.

      These, and a thousand other items which the eye
perceives in a moment, but which the memory cannot

recall, unfold themselves to the spectator gazing from the
Manx hills ; and though none of them commands so
extensive a horizon as Snaefell, the view from each is
similar in nature and variety. The hills themselves,
though in general outline conical or rounded, are rent at
their summits into dark chasms and picturesque ravines.
These open out into valleys ; or change, as they descend,
into glens of great beauty, through which pleasant
streams find their way to the sea.

     Large valleys intersect the mountain-chain, with farm

steads and pretty villages at intervals among them, and
though masses of wood are wanting, and trees of large-

size do not abound, the beech, the alder, the fir-tree, the

elm, and sometimes the arbutus and the myrtle, are
clustered round the cottage homes. Wild flowers do
not show themselves in great diversity, but such species
as do occur are scattered in profusion ; the sides of the
hills are golden with gorse at one season, and purple
with heather at another, and the grass is as green as that
of Ireland.

      The glens which hide their quiet beauty among the
hills of Man, have a certain soft and subdued grace,
which distinguishes them from the wilder glens of the
Scottish mountains. · They consist, in general, of ravines
mantled by deep green woods, hung with ivy, and car
peted on their sloping sides by velvet mosses and fra-

         c
34  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. I.

grant thyme, which are kept verdant and full of life by
the plash of a mountain stream tumbling from crag to
crag, refreshing the sward and filling the air with its
music. There is frequently sufficient height of cliff and
volume of water to give rise to a cascade, and, where the
stream is of some breadth, a rustic mill, with its water-

wheel and cluster of homely cottages, adds its pictur-
esqueness to the scene.

      These inland valleys lead down to the wildest shores,
along which, however, peaceful bays are not wanting.
Between sunrise and sunset of a midsummer day, a
steamer of moderate power can easily make the sea-tour
of the island. The spectator from its deck, gazing on

the shifting scene, feels as if he were at rest and the

land revolving before him. Now it shows a desolate
shore, such as spreads its barrenness round the Point of
Ayre ; and then the eye is refreshed by the green Curragh
and the grassy mounds of Kirkbride. Picturesque head
lands, such as Manghold or Bradda, Bankshow or St.
Anne's, slowly pass by. The basaltic shafts of Scarlet
Point project their shadows on the distant hills. From
the crags of the Calf, the white-breasted sea-birds, perched
hundreds of feet above the waves, ascend in clouds, fill

ing the air with their clang. Out of the sea rises Spanish
Head, one of the ocean gravestones of the wrecked
Armada, and of many a goodly ship which has sunk
beneath its frowning brows. Near it are the kindred

rocks, emphatically called the Chasms, turning, as they
pass, their yawning mouths towards the gazer. Along
its entire line the southern coast is guarded by weather
worn cliffs, whose riven ledges and torn and ragged
CHAP. I.  EDWARD FORBES.  35

sides are sharpened into needle-like pinnacles above, and

wasted into resounding sea-caves below.
     Between curving headlands, -- embracing them in their

arms -- havens, peacefully embayed, come into view in

rapid succession. Such are the Bays of Ramsay and
Castletown, Derby Haven and Port Erin, and, most

beautiful of all, Douglas Bay. With its unusually trans
parent waters, it lies embedded, like a crescent moon, in

the south-west shore of Man. The tip of either horn is

a headland, the southern one crowned by a lighthouse.
As it flits past, the crescent opens, and reveals all the
objects which it defends from the open sea. In the
centre of the bay a peculiarly picturesque tower of
refuge stands on a reef-- a beacon and shelter for the

sailor. On the south-western curve of the crescent lies

the town of Douglas, dear to us as the birthplace of
Edward Forbes. Its foundations are laid in the delta of

a small river, but it has climbed the heights encircling

the bay, and spread itself gracefully over the gentle

terraces and broad undulations which overlook the sea.

The more striking eminences are occupied by stately
castellated buildings ; and behind all, the lofty domes of

Snaefell and the sister hills stand in array against the
          And --besides sand and fen, headland and
horizon.

haven, -- here and there, as the island passes before him,

valleys opening on the sea allow the spectator to gaze far

inland. The brooks that make them green are seen glitter
ing in the sun, with the flicker of the leaves whose
shadows mottle their waters. The white smoke of

hidden cottages rises like a veil in front of the purple
Hills. The fragrance of wild-flowers comes down the
30  MEMOIR OF EDWARD FORBES.  CHAP. T.

breezes, the tinkling of sheep-bells, and the low murmur
of distant waterfalls. An island so varied and so beau

tiful was the befitting birthplace and cradle of one des
tined in future life to prove himself alike Naturalist,
Artist, and Philosopher. Whilst yet a child, the wild

plants of its valleys had made him a botanist, and the
spars and fossils of its shores had taught him something
of Geology. But the sea had the chief charm for him,
and in the bays of Douglas and Ramsay he caught,
whilst yet a youth, the first glimpse of those ocean
revelations which have made him famous.
       CHAPTER II.

INFANCY -- CHILDHOOD -- YOUTH.

Edward Forbes was born in 1815 and died in 1854.

The years of his life were thirty nine : the years of his
public labours, as nearly as may be, twenty-five. Into

that quarter century he crowded more work than most
men accomplish, even when their span of days stretches

beyond the allotted three-score years and ten ; and yet
his work was but half done. He was cut off in the

midst of his days, with his powers, so far as others could

discern them, but partially evolved, and his purposes but
half fulfilled, so that he never can be more in the hands

of a truthful biographer, however skilful, than a magni
ficent torso, which, had it pleased the Great Artificer to
continue his work in this world, would have grown, we

do not doubt, into a noble statue, but after a model which

we can only conjecture.
     He was born at Douglas in the Isle of Man, on Feb

ruary 12th, 1815,1 and was the second and eldest sur

viving child of Edward Forbes, Esq. of Oakhill and

   ' The Rev. John Cannell, incumbent of   tized the 12th of February 1815.' There
St. Matthews, Isle of Man, has favoured    is no registration of his birth, but it took
me with this extract from the registry of  place on the day entered as that of his
the chapel :-- ' Edward Forbes, the son
of Edward Forbes and Jane Tear, bap-       baptism,
38  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. II.

Croukbane near Douglas, and Jane, eldest daughter and
heiress of William Teare, Esq. of the Corvalla and Balla-

beg, Ballaugh, Isle of Man.
     His great-grandfather, David Forbes, " second son of

Forbes of Thornton, the first cadet of the family of Sir
John Forbes of Watertown," was born in 1707. He was

implicated in the Jacobite troubles of 1745, and took
refuge for a season in the Isle of Man. He married a
Miss Quirk, whose Christian name and lineage are un
known, and died in Edinburgh in 1771. His only son,
Edward, settled in the Isle of Man, where he acquired
the property of Oakhill, and married, in 1784, Alice,

daughter of -- Holland, Esq. of Manchester, by whom

he had fourteen children. This lady brought her hus

band a considerable fortune, but much of it was lost in

loans to the refugees, who then swarmed in the island.
He died in 1811.

      His eldest son and namesake, born 1786, was origi
nally connected with the fisheries and timber trade of
the Isle of Man, but ultimately devoted himself entirely
to banking. He married Miss Teare in 1813, and by
her had nine children. The eldest, named Edward, born

in that year, died in infancy, and his name was given to
the second child, the subject of this memoir, whose birth
 occurred two years later. Miss Teare belonged to an old
and esteemed Manx family, believed now to be extinct.
 She died in 1836.

      The immediate paternal ancestors of Edward Forbes

Iwere most of them, as learn, characterized by great

activity and energy. The men, in particular, were fond
of travel, fond of society and social pleasures, freehanded,
1815-31.  EDWARD FORBES.  39

and better at spending than at saving money. His

Igrandfather was for some time at sea, in command,

believe, of a merchantman. One uncle died in Demerara,
another in Surinam, a third travelled into the interior of

Africa, and was last heard of some twenty or thirty years
ago, as king or sultan of a native tribe. One brother of
Edward's perished by drowning in Australia; another was
accidentally killed in America; a third, the only surviving
son, David, who resembles Edward in genius, and is one
of the best field mineralogists and metallurgists of the
day, has seen many adventures in Norway, and has visited

all the mining districts of Europe. Whilst I write he is

exploring the mines of South America. A love of roving
certainly runs in the blood of the Manx Forbeses, and in
none of them, as we shall presently see, was it stronger
than in Edward, whose happiest hours were spent in

travelling through strange lands, and dredging in un-

fathomed seas.

    IOf his maternal ancestors cannot tell much, but his

mother, by the universal testimony of all who knew her,
was a singularly gentle, amiable, and pious woman, de
voted to her children, and beloved by rich and poor.
She was not, in the conventional sense, accomplished, for

in her early days the provisions for educating both sexes,
but especially hers, were very scanty in the Isle of Man ;
but she possessed a natural refinement and good taste,
which, besides other manifestations, showed itself in an

almost passionate love of flowers, and enabled her to

sympathize with her children's literary and artistic pur
suits. She inherited her love of flowers from her mother,

and transmitted it to her son, the future Professor of
40  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. II.

IBotany; and it was from her, imagine, that he mainly

derived the preponderant ideal and aesthetical elements

of his nature. It will be seen, however, that he was

of variously-mingled blood, his great-grandfather being
Scotch, his father's mother (and perhaps grandmother)
English, his own mother Manx. This descent probably
went for something in giving him his striking physique,

which was neither English, Scottish, Irish, Celtic, nor
Teutonic ; and perhaps, also, contributed to that catholi
city of character which kept him, though proud of being
a Manxman, free from all insular narrowness of feeling,
and made him a favourite wherever his wanderings led

him.
     The childhood of Edward Forbes was in many respects

a happy one. His father's affairs for a long season were
prosperous. His mother also possessed property in her

own right, which by Manx law was under her control ;
and as he was the eldest surviving and the favourite
child of both his parents, no hampering pecuniary restric
tions were laid upon him in his early days. He remained

in his father's house till 1831, when he had reached his
sixteenth year, and it was thought time to select a pro
fession for him. His mother wished him to be a clergy
man. His father wished him to be a physician ; his own
desire was to be a naturalist ; but with consent of all

parties a compromise, curiously illustrating his versatility,
was entered into, and he was sent to London to become

a painter. The compromise failed of its purpose, but he
 did not again make the Isle of Man his residence except
 at vacation intervals, so that we may now look back at
 his Manx life as forming one natural epoch, extending
1815-31.  EDWARD FORBES.  41

from 1815 to 1831, including his infancy, childhood, and
youth, and ushering in his trial of the Fine Arts as a

profession.

    In now attempting to review these early days, I am

reminded that the besetting sin of a friendly biographer
is to overpraise the subject of his sketch, and in parti
cular to magnify the promise of his early days. So
much has this been recently insisted on, that more than

one able biographer has industriously laboured, and ap
parently with great contentment to himsebf, to prove that
his Hero was an uninteresting or even a stupid child, and
has been careful in tracing his rise to eminence, to avoid
imputing to him any such quality as genius. To the
general public this mode of reviewing their intellectual

chiefs has naturally been acceptable. It leaves to the

clever child his chance of becoming a clever man, and
consoles the stupid child with the prospect of becoming
a still more clever one ; whilst the adult wise, the mode

rately wise, and the unwise, stand much more nearly on a
common level than by any ingenuity they can be made to
do, so long as genius is held to be a rare and peculiar gift,

     I have no wish to disturb the complacency with which

the majority of mankind must regard this doctrine, or to
deny that to an ingenious biographer the transmutation of
an infant dunce into an adult genius, must be a much
more interesting process, than the simple record that the
eagle who built his nest among the stars, was but the
full-grown fledgling recognised to be an eaglet from the
moment that he chipped the shell.

     I can find no room, however, for transmutational in

genuity in writing of Edward Forbes. Whether his case
42                 MEMOIR OF                                                 CHAP. II.

illustrate the rule or the exception, certain it is that from

early childhood he displayed remarkable moral and intel

lectual powers ; and if by genius be signified, among
other things, intuitive --as distinguished from the merely
acquired-- power of apprehending and originating truth,

Ithen he was richly endowed with genius. But have no

wish to dispute about words. The reality, a twofold one,
to which I am anxious to point attention
                                              is                             that unless
                                                                        is,
my estimate of his character altogether wrong, Edward

Forbes, whilst yet child of ten or twelve years, had, in
                a

the first place, unaidedly discovered the true scope of his
intellect, and had begun to employ systematically on
                                                       it

the subjects which engrossed his attention to the end of

his days.

    Secondly, he had begun to exert an extraordinary

moral influence on all who came within his circle, winning

the affection or regard of persons the least like each other
in tastes and temper, and displaying power of fascina^
tion over others, such as in later life, when told upon the
                                                             a

                                                                  it

                                                                                                a
entire scientific community of his country, made him
man remarkable in his generation, apart altogether from

his genius and learning.

    It may at first sight appear no rare thing that the

pursuits of later life should be shadowed forth in the

tastes of childhood, and assuredly musical, pictorial, and

all kinds of artistic and mechanical skill, show their bud

of promise very early                         but philosophizing, general
izing, or systematizing                       a
children, even in those                            is
          it                                  power    rarely displayed in

              ;                               who in maturity are remark

                    if

                          it
                                           ;
able for   and     does exist                        it      generally too latent

                                                         is

to be detected. Edward Forbes, however, had laid out
1815-31.  EDWARD FORBES.  43

for himself when very young, and apparently without
extrinsic suggestion, a scheme of comprehensive study,
which, though in later life it was greatly enlarged,
was not essentially altered. This scheme included the

following out of Natural History to the full ; and if we
call it a boy's dream, it was a dream which the boy

determined to fulfil, and brought nearer to fulfilment

every day that he lived. In spite of all the temptations

which literature, art, and social distinction held out to

him, to depart from the path which he early discovered
was his appointed orbit of progress, his wanderings at

farthest were but planetary perturbations, and, traced
upon the chart of his life, the outline of his scientific

career appears in almost unbroken curves, which, if car
ried out, would give us a perfect oval. In truth, if we
except his false start as an artist, for which his seniors --

not himself -- were responsible, and exclude his nominal
study of medicine, which from first to last was under
protest, we shall find him pursuing with astonishing
unity and consistency one object, almost from the cradle

to the grave. That object was Natural History, under
standing by the terms the biological half of natural
science, or, in other words, the science of organisms or

living things in relation to time, to space, to each other,

to man, and to God.

     To make this clear it is necessary to enlarge a little on

the circumstances of Edward Forbes's early years. His
health was delicate in childhood. From his fifth to his

twelfth year he was subject to severe attacks of what

my informant styles " inflammation of the lungs," but it

can scarcely have been the severe pulmonary affection
44  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. II.

which, at the present day, medical men recognise by

that term. It was sufficiently severe, however, to keep

him prisoner to bed or sofa for weeks together, and to

prevent his being sent to school till about his twelfth
year. Up to this period, accordingly, he lived almost
entirely in a small circle of relatives and friends, who

greatly loved and admired him, and who left him, almost
uncontrolled, to occupy himself intellectually as he pleased.
His childhood, in spite of his illness, was a singularly
happy one, and shed, as a happy childhood always does,
a benignant influence over all his later years. He was
tenderly nursed, affectionately ruled, and allowed a wise
liberty; but, so far as appears, no relative, friend, ac
quaintance, teacher, visitor, or distinguished stranger,
directed his mind towards natural history.

     Nevertheless, all at once, somewhere about his seventh,

eighth, or tenth year, we alight upon him as a confirmed
naturalist. His father has built for him a museum at
his country-house. His sister is installed as curator.
His playmates are under requisition to bring contribu
tions from all quarters. Minerals, fossils, shells, dried
sea-weeds, hedge-flowers, and dead butterflies, accumu
late around him, and hours are spent in arranging and

classifying them.
     With his twelfth year better health sets in, and he is

free to ramble as he pleases. He goes to a day-school,
despatches his lessons with a rapidity provoking to his
master, who would fain make him a classical scholar, but
has no other fault to find with him than that he is con

stantly drawing grotesque figures on his books, and helps
the stupider boys with their lessons. Out of school, he
1815-31.  EDWARD FORBES.  45

takes 110 part in athletic exercises, in boisterous play, or
in battle. He quarrels with' no one, and no one dreams
of quarrelling with him. The other boys, however, ob
serve with surprise that he never passes a stone in the

grass without turning it up to see if there are worms

or other " beasts" below it. He has an unaccountable

fancy for gathering weeds, and filling his pockets with

creeping things. A tame lizard has a pocket to itself,

and there seems to be a mysterious freemasonry between
him and all the cats and dogs he meets. No one, old or
young, sympathizes with him in these tastes, or directly
encourages them. The servants about him regard what
they term weed-gathering and catching flies in the air as
proofs of incipient madness, and hint as much to their
superiors. His grandmother, though she dearly loves

him, and does her very best to spoil him, listens with half
assent to these opinions, and denounces him in the Manx

tongue, which, however, he does not understand, as pro
spectively the greatest fool in the Isle of Man. His
mother puts religious books in his way, and hopes that
he will enter the Church, failing which he shall be an
artist. His father looks upon his occupations as boyish pas
times. His teachers lament his favourite occupations, as

so much wasted time, and blame his relatives for suffer

ing such busy idleness. His winning ways, indeed, and
his manifest genius disarm all opposition, and every one

helps him, but the motive in every case is to give him
pleasure, not to show the sympathy of the helper with

his tastes. Thus, unopposed but unencouraged, he laboured

at Natural History till his sixteenth year. And his time

was not spent in the mere boyish collection of pretty
46  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IL

shells and shining spars, stuffed birds and gilded beetles.
He methodically studied, though necessarily in an imper

fect way, mineralogy, geology, botany, and zoology; con
trived, no one knows how, to get hold of systematic

works on those sciences ; and, which is still more strange,

read them with profit. A significant order presided over

his collections, not the mechanical orderwhich subordinates

all to the foot-rule requirements of symmetry, though this
in its place he did not despise ; nor the artistic order

pleasing to aesthetic taste, but the ordination which
regards every material object as a link in the magnifi

cent network of created nature, and knows that if lost,

it would leave a gap which no other link could fill.

    I have diligently sought for indications that some

maturer intellect than his own guided him in those pro
ceedings, but with no success. Neither does it appear
that any incidental event in his early history did more
than provide occasion or opportunity for them. His
mother and grandmother were noted in the Isle of Man
for their love of flowers, and for their skill in rearing
them, and we may willingly believe that a similar love

descended to him, and was fostered by their precept and
example. He himself, also, more than once, in conversa

Ition with the late Captain Graves (on whose authority

make the statement), connected his love for Natural His

tory with the delight which as a sick, bedridden child he
received from the shells and sea-weeds which his play

mates brought him. It is certain, also, that the green

romantic beauty of the valleys of Man, and the pictur

esque wildness of its shores and sea-bays, told powerfully
on his youthful fancy; and that as soon as his health
18)5-31.  EDWARD FORBES.  47

permitted he took to adventurous boating, like a true
Manxman, in whose veins the blood of a Norse sea-king
still tingled. But after conceding all this, and yet further,
that his special devotion to marine natural history stands
in organic connexion with his birth in the small islet
which old writers call the " navel" of our seas, how little

arc we helped by such concessions towards explaining the
secret of his precocious philosophizing ! Would it prove a

moderately successful, not to say infallible, recipe for breed
ing naturalists to send a clever child to the Isle of Man,
lay it on an invalid's couch, bring it flowers, sea-weeds, and
shells, and when it grew stronger set it to catch insects

and dredge shell fish in a troubled sea ! It may be enough

to reply that the experiment has been tried, though un
wittingly, a thousand times, and has failed. Edward

Forbes is the only naturalist whom Manxland has bred ;

and we may pronounce the recipe infallible, provided
only we have an Edward Forbes to try it upon. Assuredly
had he not been brought face to face with the magnifi
cence of material nature in early life, he might have been
a great poet, painter, or man of letters, rather than a
great naturalist. But looking out on Nature, he did as
much to the making of himself naturalist, as Nature look
ing in through his senses did ; and for us, what he con

Itributed is the more interesting element of the two.

would not in the least underrate the influence of outward

circumstances upon him ; but they must count for far

less than the way in which he guided and controlled
them ; nor can he be quoted against himself as judging
humbly of his own capacity. Some men deny genius to
Newton, because he gave himself credit only for patience.
48  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. II.

forgetting that the patience of Newton was part and
proof of his genius. Let us see how far the preceding
statements are borne out by the actual testimony of his
contemporaries and seniors.

      Edward Forbes's first formal teacher was an accom
plished lady, Miss Stowell, who thus writes of him in a
letter to one of his surviving aunts :--

     " Dear Mrs. Forbes,-- My recollections of your

nephew are almost entirely confined to a few years, and
those at an early period of his life.

      " The estate to which his mother was heiress being
very near Ballaugh Rectory, Edward was often there.

     " My uncle was fond of all Mrs. Teare's grandchildren ;

and as they spent many of their vacations at Ballabeg,
both during my uncle StowelTs and Mr. Howard's resi

Idence at the rectory, frequently met them there. Of
these little visits I now only remember, that the Forbeses

coming to Ballaugh to spend the holidays was a signal
for pleasure, and that Edward was a great favourite with
my uncle, who always spoke of him as being a boy of un
usual intelligence and great promise. Even when seeing

Ihim thus casually among other children, could not avoid

observing his great thoughtfulness, and his studious at
tention to the remarks of those older than himself, what

ever might be the subject of conversation.
     " No doubt in his rambles among those beautiful glens

near Bishop's Court, and in his loiterings on the shores,
and scrambles on the rocks of his native island, he first

imbibed that taste for the investigation of nature which
he afterwards so successfully cultivated.
1815-31.     EDWARD FORBES.                                                               49

    I" When his sister was my pupil often spent the even

ing with Mrs. Forbes, and Edward was fond of joining
our quiet little party. He seldom took part in our con

versation, but always showed by a smile or a certain quiet
little frown of his own (which was by no means unpleas-
ing) whether he approved or disapproved of our senti

ments. Generally, however, he was so occupied either
with books, pictures, or shells, that he seemed scarcely
aware that we were in the room.

     " With a remarkably deferential manner towards his

seniors, he had, at the same time, an openness and inde
pendence in speaking his mind that evidently proceeded
from conscious integrity.

    " I must mention an instance of high principle which
struck me as being remarkable in one so young. I think

he might have been about fourteen, when his mother told

me she much wished her eldest son would study for the

Church. Thinking him a seriously disposed youth, and,

soon after this conversation, happening to have an oppor

tunity of saying something to him on the subject, he re                        '11

plied to my remark, suddenly but firmly, --' I tell you

what, Miss Stowell, you want to persuade me to enter the

Church. Now, were to tell you candidly what would
I

         '11

      I
                         a

                                         1

                     I

                                                                   D

                                II
be my motives in doing so, you yourself would be the very

first person to blame me.' What motives                               I?       Just that!I
                                                                            '
might have time to paint and study what liked. And

what sort of clergyman should be, to swear that was
                                                                                    I

moved by the Holy Ghost to take upon me that office,

which chiejly took upon me for the sake of leisure. No

never take money for what don't intend to devote

myself to!'  need not say how greatly was pleased
                                                                      I
50                       MEMOIR OF     CHAP. II.

at the honesty of the youth. However much one might

regret that his choice of studies was not theology, his

after life showed that he had not mistaken his calling,

hut that he was pre-eminently gifted for the path he had

chosen ; and may he not have been a more useful man in
his generation than he would have been had he ' taken

orders,' without his whole heart being in his Master's
Iwork ? But excuse me, did not mean to add any com
                                            '
ment.                               :  ·'

    I" All that can recall of the late Professor presents him

to my mind as a humble admirer of whatever was great
or good. He seemed to have an affectionate disposition,
remarkably so as son and brother. He was extremely

gentle, and had great tenderness of manner, without using
many kind words. His tone was generally kind and

tender, especially towards his little sister. Whenever her

praises were spoken, his eye lost its languor and kindled

into brightness, however deeply he might be engrossed in
his books or his drawings. He was naturally disposed to

silence, but when he did speak there was often a little
fun or pleasantry, sometimes, perhaps, bordering on the

Isatirical ; yet never did hear him say anything that

was really ill-natured.

    "His chief trait at that time appeared to me to be
Iindefatigable industry.
                          do not remember to have seen

....him idle ; he used to say, ' My lessons are play enough

forme.'"

     The Rev. Mr. Howard, Eector of Ballaugh, Isle of
Man, a venerable clergyman of eighty, thus writes of
young Forbes :--

      " When Professor Forbes was quite a boy, there was
1815-31.  EDWARD FORBES.  51

something exceedingly interesting in his appearance. A

stranger could hardly pass him without turning round to
look at him again, so much amiablcncss, benevolence, and
intelligence were expressed in his countenance. He was
a general favourite with his school-fellows. There was a

great deal of playfulness in his disposition. No one en
joyed more any little witticism than he did, yet he never
indulged in any ill-natured remarks upon others.

      " When very young he discovered a remarkable fond
ness for the study of Natural History, and when he was

Iabout, think, twelve years of age, began to form a museum

of his own at home, where, in course of time, he collected
and arranged a great variety of natural curiosities. In
this museum he spent much of his time when he was out
of school.

     " His mother, who was a person of an intellectual and

very superior mind, took great delight in cultivating
beautiful flowers and rare plants. And perhaps he may
at first have imbibed his early fondness for Botany from
the groat interest he saw her take in these things. She
soon observed in him a more than common turn for scien

tific pursuits, and was anxious that he should have every

facility for increasing his knowledge on these subjects.
Had her life been prolonged to witness the celebrity he
afterwards attained, what high gratification it would have
afforded her to see her most sanguine hopes concerning

him more than realized !
      " He spent a great part of his school and college vaca

tions' in the parish of Ballaugh, at the residence of his
grandmother, who, as well as his mother, had a fondness
for the cultivation of flowers, almost amounting to a
52  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. II.

ruling passion. There he felt quite at home ; and it was
no small gratification to him that in this retired situation

he was able to pursue his scientific studies uninterrupted
and undisturbed. His grandmother always left him to

spend his time entirely as he thought best. She had a

great affection for him, and he had for her. Sometimes

she would laugh at him for the enthusiasm with which he

prosecuted his Natural History studies, which he always
took very good-humouredly. Her gardener mentioned a

somewhat amusing observation made by her to him one
day. Mr. Edward, he said, had been in the garden amus
ing himself at his little tricks. He had been for some time
playing with flies in the air. After that he pulled up an
insignificant little weed, and turned it round and viewed
it on all sides. He then went to a hedge, at a short dis

tance, where he began to grope for insects with his long

slender fingers, which, to use the man's own words, seemed
made just for the purpose. His grandmother, who had
been all this time silently observing him, with a very
curious eye, turned suddenly to the gardener, and said to
him in Manx (a language which Professor Forbes did not
understand), ' Ta mee credjal naugh vod slane Ellan
Vannin sauail yn guilley shoh veich chcet dy ve ommy-

dan,' i.e., ' I do believe the whole Isle of Man cannot

save this boy from being a fool.' One night at the Rec

tory of Ballaugh, when he was, I think, about twenty-one

or twenty-two years of age, he, his cousin, and some of

my family had been employing themselves by taking pro
files from their shadows upon the wall. One of them
said to him, ' We will keep this of yours untU you are a
Professor of something or other one of these days.' Upon
1815-31.        EDWARD FORBES.                                                       53

which, stretching forth his arm and pointing as if to some

thing far away, he said thoughtfully, ' That is far off in

the distance.'

     " His mother once said to me when he was a boy, and

she was at the time speaking with pleasure of his great
taste for Natural History, ' My highest ambition would

be to see him a good clergyman.' He himself acciden

tally mentioned at a later period of his life that at one

time he had wished to be a clergyman, but that he had

thought he knew himself too well to hope that his teach
ing and his practice would always agree.

     " During his visits to his grandmother at Ballaugh, he
was in the habit of going out in a small fishing-boat into

the Bay, to an oyster-bank three or four miles distant
from the shore, for the purpose of dredging for mollusca.
One of the boatmen told me that Professor Forbes was

very particular about having his microscope with him,
and that at one time it had fallen into the bottom of the

boat without his being aware of and that he, seeing
lying there, had taken up and quietly put into his
                     it                                                      it
                                                                                         it
                                    it,

pocket. Some time afterwards Professor Forbes wished

to use    but found  was gone. He did not know
          it,
                 a

                            '

                        I it
                                                    '
                                                                       I
what had become of it. Oh what look of sorrow,'
                                                                          a

said the old man, there was in his face then                                    did not
                                                                             !

                                                                              I
                                                                                  I
tell him for while that had got it; but at last held
it up to his view,-- and the joy that was there He                                   di
                                                                             !

rectly slipped shilling into my hand.' The same mana
told me that Professor Forbes used often to come to see

him at his cottage, and happening to find him at dinner,
has sat down on stool beside him, and partaken of his
             a

homely meal of fish, with much apparent enjoyment.
54                      MEMOIR OP                            CHAP. II.

This old man, who had known him from his childhood,
said to me, ' Oh, he had nothing of pride in him. I
Inever knew a better temper.
                              do not remember ever to

have seen him in a bad humour.'

    "His uncle mentioned to me that one day when Pro

fessor Forbes and he were together at his grandmother's,

the former was examining with the microscope some small

marine animals, when he suddenly started up and sprang

out of the room. On his return, his uncle inquired the

cause of his acting in a manner apparently so frantic, and,

his face beaming with delight, he told him he had made an

important discovery ; that a certain theory had been put

forth on the subject, which he had just been examining ;

that he had always disbelieved and now had ocular
          It

                                      !
                                                   .' it,
                                                          a
demonstration of its erroneousness, and was so delighted

with the discovery, that he scarcely knew what to do with

himself.       reminds one of Archimedes running into the

town, crying out Evprjica EvprjKa                            part of the parish
      " He would pass day after day in

of Ballaugh called the Curragh, and in the glens, in search

of plants. His uncle said that while he was employed in

this way he never felt alone, nor found time hang heavy

on his hands.    person who often accompanied him in
    a
                       a

                   A

                                                     '
                                                                            a
                                                                                                            '
these excursions remarked, He had a hawk's eye to see

in moment any plant that was new.' To this person

he presented beautiful Pictorial Bible as memorial of

their early intercourse. This man said of him, He was

kindness itself.'
      " The persons who accompanied him to the dredging

were generally farmers who lived near the sea-shore, and

they considered  it     great pleasure to go along with him,

                     a
1828-31.  EDWARD FORBES.  55

.ond to row the boat, and spend the long summer day in
his company. At times some of them would make rather
ludicrous observations on the small animals which they
found, to which he always listened with a kind smile.
He had an agreeable way of imparting to them much
scientific information, but in a manner so simple and so

free from technical terms, as to be easily comprehended,
and interesting even to persons not conversant with such
subjects. When he visited the parish of Ballaugh at va
rious later periods of his life, he did not forget old times,
but always met his former dredging companions with a
truly friendly look, and a hearty shake of the hand. They
all had a great regard and respect for him, and were glad
to sec his face again, as the face of a true friend.

     " His humility and simplicity were so observable that
no one who knew him could fail of noticing and admir

ing those lovely features in his character."
     Mrs. Melville Attwood, his sister, has kindly favoured

me with some notes of Edward's early days, which I add

here.

     " Edward was principally educated at Mr. Garvin's
school in Douglas, until he went to Edinburgh Univer
sity, but was always most studious at home, and seldom
joined in play with his schoolmates. His mother was of a

most refined and delicate mind, and her opinion was very

highly regarded by all her friends. She always encouraged

Ihis taste for the Fine Arts. In respect to his health, have

heard her remark that Edward was of an extremely deli
cate constitution, having a regular attack of inflammation
of the lungs every winter untd twelve years of age, when
he seemed to outgrow the tendency ; and no doubt the
56  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. II.

constant change of air he had afterwards, in travelling
about the Continent, assisted to establish better health,

until he so unfortunately caught fever amongst the Islands
in the Archipelago. His father, although generally ab
sorbed in business, encouraged to the utmost of his
power his natural talents ; built him a little museum and

study, separate from, though attached by a passage to,

the house, of which I had the charge during his absence

from home.
     " He was exceedingly fond of haranguing his brothers

and sister in speeches of great length, about the merest

Itrifles. For instance, one evening when was sitting

sewing at a swan's-down cape, he got upon the dining-
room table, and made a most energetic speech upon the
enormity and cruelty of taking the skin from the poor

bird to make ourselves warm. He took me so much by
surprise that I, being very young, was almost frightened
at his vehemence, and felt exceedingly glad when he

had concluded ; therefore it made a lasting impression

on my mind.
      " One pet recreation of his, when sitting over a comfort

able winter fire, about dusk in particular, before the lights
were brought in, was to tear with his immensely long
fingers (which he could do most characteristically and
quickly) little paper figures of men, women, horses, etc.,
and place them upon the bars of the grate, pondering the
while which would be the first destroyed by the small
blazes that would arise from the gaseous coal. An army

Iready for battle was a favourite design, though cannot

say he had any warlike tendency, as he could scarcely be
trusted with a pistol or a gun, being so awkward in the
1R2S-31.  EDWARD FORBES.  57

handling of them. He was peculiarly fond of cats and
other domestic animals. Even a lizard he once tamed
and petted even to keeping it in his bed-room, when he
visited his grandmother, who was much horrified at his

choice, though, like most grandchildren, he was too highly-
thought of to be denied anything.

     " Both when young and in more matured years, his
habits were most simple and childlike. He delighted to

play with young children, and scarcely ever passed a
child in the road without noticing it. When about

twelve years old he wrote sacred poems and paraphrases

of the Bible, as well as lighter poetry, satirical verses,
etc., and at school his friends used invariably to apply
to him to write their valentines, etc. As a caricaturist
he was well known in Edinburgh.

      " His best painting, done when only thirteen years

old, is in my possession."

     In 1828, he went as day scholar to the Atholc House

Academy in Douglas, taught by Mr. J. H. Garvin, and

reckoned at the time, and for many years after, the head

Ischool in the Isle of Man. " can clearly call to mind,"

says Mr. Badnall, a scholar of somewhat later date, " the

old school-room. It was a long and narrow upper room

in a detached building, communicating with Mr. Garvin's
house on the one side by a flight of steps, and with a

good large play-ground on the other side by a wooden

bridge. At the top end of the school was a large black

desk, which was raised on a platform, and behind which,
as the clock struck nine in the morning, Mr. Garvin was
accustomed to take his seat, and there preside during

the school hours."
58      MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IL

    "It was in this room that Edward Forbes was a

school-boy. Mr. Garvin, although not a severe master,

was held in awe by most of the boys, and his entering

the school-room, and his walk up the room to his desk,

Iwill never be effaced from my memory as long as

live. His approach was the signal for universal order,

and if his system of teaching was not, in other respects,

Ithe best, must do him the justice to remark that

order was a rule of the school, any serious infraction

of which was visited by the pains of a long cane, admi

nistered often across the lower part of the back, from

which I have seen many a poor fellow shrink in a

pantomimic manner, and bodily disappear under the
Idesk.
        was then too young and too thoughtless to judge

of any defect there might be in Mr. Garvin's system of

Iteaching ; but since, have been satisfied that in my

case, it lay in not being well grounded in my work. For

Iinstance, was reading Virgil when I left Mr. Garvin's, in

or about the year 1836, and my knowledge of the Latin

Igrammar at the same time was so imperfect that had

to go the ground over again at my next school. It was

the rapid building up of knowledge without sufficiently

reckoning on the foundation, and compacting the struc

ture, brick by brick, stage by stage, for future durability.

I do not, of course, lay all the blame of this on Mr. Gar

Ivin. believe that he was a man of high principle, and
Isincerely anxious for the progress of his boys, and that

was fond of shirking work too often, and slow at it

Iwhen did not shirk it. But, notwithstanding, I think

that if the same system of teaching was applied to the

mind of Edward Forbes as was within my experience,
1828-31.  EDWARD FORBES.                          59

I doubt very much whether it tended in an important

degree to develop his intellect, or prepare it for the
grasp of which it has since proved it was so eminently

capable.

    " I feel great difficulty in writing one word of seeming

disparagement of my old master, Mr. Garvin ; and what
I have said is not without some misgivings how far the
Idefect have attributed to his teaching in my case, may
I Inot be, more than know, chargeable on myself.
                                                  have

Isaid, however, what think.
" I should add that Mr. Garvin had an under-master,

who generally attended to the younger boys."

    He attended this school till 1831, and this teacher,

Mr. Garvin, now an aged man of seventy, thus describes

the way in which his time was spent :--

    "Edward Forbes was, I think, under my care for about

four and a half years, during which time he read the usual
short course in classics, science, etc., but was not what

would be called a good scholar. That this was not from

want of abilities, I need not tell you, but because his

time and attention were devoted to other pursuits. His
pencil was seldom or never out of his hand ; his Latin,

as other exercises, were curiosities ; there never was a

vacant space left on his paper, every corner filled up with
a drawing of some creature or other, so much so, that he

has got his knuckles rapped more than once for bringing

me up exercises almost as difficult to decipher as the

Rosetta Stone. . . .

    " His school-books, if they could be got now, would

be real curiosities, covered over as they are on the mar

Igins and all available places in the same manner as
60  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. H.

described his exercises to be. His conduct as a schoolboy
was excellent. 1 have no recollection of having ever had
to punish him for misconduct of any kind."

      Finally, here is the judgment of a school-fellow, Mr.

Fleetwood :--

      " Edward was always a remarkably quiet, studious boy.
Such a thing as a fight never entered his head, and he was
never known to have quarrelled with any other boys.
His temper was always extremely gentle and sweet, and
at the same time he was so looked up to by the rest of
the boys that he was always made umpire in their dis
putes. We all felt we should get strict justice from

I Ihim. In all the years knew him, never can recollect

his being punished in the smallest degree ; he never
did anything wrong. He was always at the head of
the classical classes. Indeed, he was sometimes remon

strated with for giving too much assistance to the
other boys in their Latin construing, which was always
done entirely in Latin. He was never known to neglect
his lessons ; whatever they were, they were sure to be
prepared ; he would sit quietly down to them and master

them. When asked, ' How is it you always are ready
when we are not V 1 1 just give my mind to it for half
an hour, that is all,' was his answer. His health never

was strong, and he never joined in any of the athletic
exercises or rough play of the rest. The instant school
was over he was off, never joining with the other boys,
but quietly by himself, either looking after his insects or
else going home. Though he had few intimates, his in
fluence over all was unbounded ; all looked up to him,
and yet no one at the time ever spoke of his remarkable
1S2S-31.        EDWARD FORBES.                                                    61

talent in one way or another. His school-books were

covered with caricatures and grotesque drawings. He

would seize any peculiarity in a moment, and perhaps
quickly open some book before the original, with, ' Did

you ever see that before V and exhibit an unmistakable

likeness. His own appearance was very remarkable--

very tall, intensely thin, and his long arms and legs ap

pearing all disjointed ; his hair very long, and always a

habit of throwing it back by a jerk. When asked why

he did not cut; Oh, could do nothing without my

         it
                     it it,

                                      '

                         I

                                                                           ;
hair      helps me to work.' He never could pass stone
                                                                              ;a
without turning over in search of anything underneath,

and was always laughed at by the other boys for this

habit. Mr. Garvin had not the right system for drawing

out any talent amongst his pupils but he was proud of

Edward, who was considered quite the authority in the

school on any classical point, both in Latin and Greek.

He never showed any love for lecturing or haranguing

at school, and do not remember ever having heard of
          I

                        a

                            by I
any such taste at home, though knew the whole Forbes

family well, and was great deal at the house.
     " His collection of insects was the first attempt they

were all beautifully arranged            himself. Coins he was

very fond of; and he particularly excelled in making
flies for fishing. He delighted in getting at the root of

any difficulty, and would teach and explain to the other

 »oys with immense patience. In the Latin construction he
1

                                      a
was never at fault, and would often astonish his master by

the correct explanations he gave for different rules.                             He
was never at any other school than Mr. Garvin's.                                  He

studied drawing with Mr. Williamson, who took a small
62                   MEMOIR OF               CHAP. II.

class. Caricatures and grotesque figures were inherent
in him from a very early age. He had a peculiar talent
for seeing through the characters of all his school-fellows,

but he was always so apart from them, and yet so gentle,

that he never had an enemy. All felt he was different

from themselves, but no one exactly knew how. We

all felt his superiority, but no one thought of being jealous,
he was so unlike the rest of us."

    These independent accounts of Edward Forbes's youth

ful days are singularly unanimous in their references to

the sweetness of his natural disposition, and his early

display of unusual intellectual power. They imply also
great diligence, manifested, however, in a most desultory

fashion.

    A further illustration of this is afforded by a paper
in his handwriting, marked " A list of compositions yet

Iremaining" prefaced " had written some poems, etc.,

before this year, but they were all lost." The list extends

from 1825 to 1831, so that he began to rhyme before he

was ten years old, and it chronicles eighty-five produc

tions, the majority of which are poetical, and only three,

and these the very last, scientific. A few of these papers

are referred to as school-exercises, such as an " Essay on

Governing the Passions;" " A Translation of part of the
First Book of the iEneid ;" " Homer's First Book in English

Verse." Many of the verses are on religious subjects, and

were probably written at his mother's suggestion, such as
"Ebcnezer, a' Poem ;" " The Descent of Nebuchadnezzar ;"
                              "  "
" The  Prophecy  of  Huldah         David's  Prayer  and
                             ;

Thanksgiving ;" " The Tempting of Abraham ;" " Psalm
xcix. ;" " Psalm cxx. " Like other young poets, he of
1828-31.                          EDWARD FORBES.                 63

course wrote his tragedy. One, indeed, did not content

him. In 1830 he registers, " My first attempt in the
dramatic line-- Sesostris, a Tragedy, Act L and part of

      l.                                                       "Junius Brutus,
                                                          it,
Act II. ;" and immediately beneath

Act and part of Act ll" Of Sesostris we hear no more,

but in 1831, we read "Junius Brutus, Acts II. and ill."

Whether Act v. was ever reached does not appear.

      The remaining poems are on the most diversified sub'       I

jects, such as " Ode to Mercy' --this was (1829), beI                          ;

lieve, the first ode tried " The Falling Star'-- one of
my first trials (1830) at blank verse;" " "Whilst in Ida's
                                  ;"

                                          '
                                                              '

Leafy Grove,' sent as;"           valentine, being the first (1830)
  wrote, but one "         'a     The Blue Bell,' this was written
I

(1828) for Miss                   (now Mrs.                    but never given
                                                  ),
she desired  it  herself,         and on writing               two verses she
                                   produced these       ;
asked for more, which                                           " "' Tommy's

Ghost,    Ballad,'               school satire there was a       second part,
but       lost " "              Remember me," piece of           real feeling,
      it                          a          a

          is a                        ;

                         ;
                               a

followed in the list (1830) by " Ode on Apple Dumpling."

Many of the verses refer to Manx legends. There are

several translations of Horace's Odes, good many songs,
                                                  a
some poems, probably complimentary, addressed to Azilea

and C. C., various acknowledged imitations of Scott,

Byron, Southey, and Shelley, and not few unfinished

pieces. Of those poems only one school-exercise has
reached me. Such titles as " The World of Affright,"
" The Spirit and the Flower, Dream of the first World,"
" Amalek, his Sleep and the Wanderings of his Soul,"

make one wish that the productions so entitled had been

preserved.  I  fear, however, that they were lost along with

much else during his absence in the East in 1841-42,
G4                 MEMOIR OF             CHAP. II.

when his father's household was broken up in conse
quence of pecuniary reverses, which placed all papers in

his possession beyond his own control. The titles, how
ever, and the number of verses in each poem remain on

record, and as the verses must have amounted to many
thousand lines, they constitute a notable proof of in
dustry, although the list is not an exhaustive, but avow
edly a most imperfect one. Two of the prose pieces on
Manx superstitions, were published in the MiiTor, of

1830 and 1832.

    No reference, it will be observed, occurs up to the close

of 1831 to Natural History papers, but the omission is

Idesigned. Under 1827, he writes, "In this year wrote

little, as I was occupied by Natural History chiefly.

However, some pieces were lost, as the ' Ghost of Brad-

dan;'" and under 1829, "This year's composing is all

lost, save the two named, being occupied chiefly by

Natural History."

     Under a special heading as scientific, he winds up the

list with three papers :-- " Notice of experiments on the
animals of the genus Lymnea;"1 " On the formation of
columnar basalt ;" " On the Behemoth (unfinished) ;" but

these properly belong to his student life at Edinburgh.

    When by and by the question pressed for answer,

what profession shall the young artist, poet, philoso

pher, follow 1 it was not easy to find a suitable reply.

Had he answered according to the desire of his heart he

would have said frankly that he did not wish to follow

any profession. He had some bright day-dream of bound-

   ' Read before the Royal Physical So-  ing in a jilace-book which he kept ut
ciety of Edinburgh, 24th January 1832.   Cullefe.-- A. G.
This pa|>cr existu in his own lmndwrit-
1S31.                  EDWARD FORBES.               65

less travel by land and sea with the pilgrim as he sailed
from shore to shore, and traversed continent after con

tinent, treading on shining minerals, plucking wondrous
wild-flowers, watching the ways of strange living animals,
and of stranger living men, painting the landscapes which

rose Eden upon Eden before him, committing to song

the deep thoughts and the gleeful impulses of his heart,
gathering round him all the wonders of nature, and

winning her secrets from her, till at some distant day he
should return to his native land, laden with treasures and

wisdom, and crowned with glory. Such, probably, was

the nearest approach Edward Forbes had made to the

conception of a worldly vocation. But he was not more

remarkable for idealism than for common sense, and he

kept his drcam to himself. His friends, accordingly,

were left to suggest a calling for him, and it might well

puzzle them to say for which of the recognised profes

sions his training had prepared him. Some twelve years

of indulged valetudinarian boyhood, followed by some

four of wayward attention to the business of a provincial

day-school, could not furnish any remarkable amount of

scholastic equipment.  A little Latin, less Greek, still

less algebra, mathematics, or even common arithmetic,

and no physical science, no French, German, or other

modern language at all, were the sum of formal learning

which Edward Forbes carried away from school. From

the sequel it will appear that he was also held to be a

proficient in drawing, although it is only by incidental

references wc gather that one person taught him to draw,

and another gave him some lessons in oil painting.

       There is no room, notwithstanding, for blame, and

                       E
66  MEMOIR OF                                                CHAP. II.

perhaps as little for regret. The youth himself was do
cile, eager for knowledge, and impatient of idleness. His
father was liberal in furnishing the means of gratifying
his son's tastes, even when he did not understand them.
His mother watched with the tenderest care over her

loved and gifted child. Mr. Garvin, a thoroughly con
scientious man, did all in his power to make the young
genius a scholar, and between teacher and pupil there
existed from first to last a feeling of mutual respect and
regard. None of those about him, however, could give
him the help he needed. That his true vocation was
Natural History struck no one, or that dredging, rock-
surveying, and shell-collecting would become the business
of his life. Nor was the want of special guidance in

Natural History his greatest misfortune. It was still

worse for him that his home-circle included no intelligent
senior of his own sex who could have wisely trained him
to habits of systematic study, and taught him by precept
and example the importance of rule and method in in
tellectual as well as physical work. For want of such
training much of his energy was unwisely directed, and
he left behind him at his death a far less compact and

conspicuous monument to his genius than his enormous
diligence would have produced, had his intellect revolved
in an orbit of smaller area, and been less liable to deflec

tion towards new centres by attraction in every portion
of its path.

           however, we lament this for his sake as well as for

our own, let us not forget that no scheme of discipline
would have made Edward Forbes methodical student.
His sympathies were too many and too wide to make
    If,

                                                          a
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  67

 it possible for him to concentrate his thoughts for any
 length of time on a few limited objects. He could not
 work unless his mind were free to roam backward and

 forward over a far wider field than he was professedly
 exploring. To abridge his freedom was to abolish, or at
 least greatly to narrow, his power of working, and had
 he fallen, in his early days, into the hands of formal pe
 dants of the drill-sergeant school, they would have done
 him greater mischief by crushing his genial catholic
spirit, than good by teaching him more orderly intellec
tual ways. The likelihood is that his temper would have
been soured, and his playful fancy exasperated into biting
satire. We may be thankful that he escaped this, and
that when the chances were so many against his obtain
ing a suitable education, he should upon the whole have

received one so peculiarly qualifying him for the duties
of an open-air naturalist, which we now perceive was his

predestined vocation.

    All, therefore, that I will further say in reference to

his early education is simply this. The minds of some
men are like diving-bells with walls of opaque iron, and
one small window at the top. Little light enters them,
and that always in one direction. The minds of an ex
actly opposite class are crystal palaces, the walls all glass,
and light entering in every direction. The choicest
minds are intermediate in structure. They have windows
to each point of the compass, besides a goodly skylight,
but shaded corners abound under all degrees of illumina
tion short of exposure to the direct glare, and there are

shutters to close each window when that is desirable, and

prevent the confusion of conflicting cross-lights. Edward
68  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. II.

Forbes's intellect was of the second class, and open at

every moment to all the skyey influences. It would
have been better in some respects if he had been per

suaded in early life to make it less than all window, by
a shutter here and there, but he loved the full light, and

all that he could be induced to do was to temper the

brightness by a veil, originally but one degree less trans

parent than the glass, and, even when thickest, more
translucent than opaque.

     In this state of matters it was naturally of little im
portance in the youth's estimation which of many pro
fessions he nominally embraced. Apart from Natural
History his chief acquirement was probably a large com

mand over the literary resources of the English language.

Although he certainly did not know its grammatical nice
ties, to which, indeed, he was indifferent to the end of his

days, he had, for a boy of sixteen, read largely in its litera
ture, and had largely employed it as an instrument of
thought. He knew the riches of his mother-tongue, and
felt conscious that he could employ them in the service of
literature and science, but it was as a writer, and chiefly

as a poet, that at that time he expected to render service.
He was not naturally an orator, nor at any period of his
life remarkable for fluency as a speaker. The style of

even his earliest essays and poems is strikingly unrheto-

rical. The lectures which at a later period delighted all
audiences, were, in the majority of cases, quiet mono
logues, equivalent to his share in a very earnest conversa
tion with his audience. His more elaborate and eloquent

prelections seemed rather thinking aloud, to relieve the
mind of the thinker, than cunningly devised speeches,
1331.                EDWARD FORBES.                               69

intended to please, instruct, or convince the hearer.

Hence, apart from those conscientious convictions which,

we have seen, kept him from taking the priest's office for

Ia little bread, the pulpit, believe, had no attraction for

him as an arena for oratorical display. The bar had still
fewer attractions, for he took great interest in many

Iquestions of theology, but none, imagine, in questions

of law. His literary tastes and acquirements thus pointed

specifically to no recognised calling, except, perhaps, that
of play-actor, which may have had its secret charms for

him, but would not have satisfied his ambition, and cer

tainly had no attractions in the eyes of his friends. The
office of lecturer on science, in which ultimately his

genius found large scope for its utterance, was not then

recognised, as it now;

                           is,
                                    a
                                                            a
                       as profession which deserves,

and will reward, the entire dedication of lifetime to its

studies and duties nor were his qualifications for the

office as yet known to himself or suspected by his admir

ing relatives.

         purely literary calling being thus debarred, there reA
mained the two very dissimilar professions of physician and
painter to choose between. To what extent the relative         I

claims of Medicine and Art were formally discussed do
not know, but those of Art were held to be paramount.
Had the choice lain between Natural History and Art, the
former, there can be little question, would have been pre

ferred, though in fact, as Edward Forbes had resolved to

be both naturalist and artist, mattered comparativelyit
little which of the titles he bore as his professional one.
To his friends, who entertained greatly exaggerated ideas
of his skill as an artist, and could much better appreciate
70  MEMOIR OF EDWARD FORBES.  CHAP. II.

his drawings than his geological or botanical speculations,
the honourable and lucrative vocation of a great painter
seemed in all respects preferable to the ill-rewarded and
dubious profession of a naturalist. As for medicine it
had no interest for him, except as including certain de
partments of Natural History, and for its own more
special studies he had an unconquerable aversion. No
wonder, then, that disliking medicine, loving Art, and
hoping for sufficient leisure to follow science and literature
also, he should have listened with delight to the commen
dations bestowed on his youthful drawings, and consented

to make Art his profession. Without any misgivings he
set off for London, lightly laden with sketches which

were to prove to the world his genius as an artist, and
found, as so many an eager youth had done before, that
he had mistaken his vocation, and that London had

neither room nor recognition for him.
                   CHAPTER III.

FALSE START AS AN ARTIST -- FIRST RESIDENCE IN LONDON.

     Edward Forbes paid his first visit to the metropolis
on June 21st, 1831, and remained there till 18th October
of the same year. His previous biographers have de
scribed his artistic pilgrimage to London as if it had
fulfilled all the expectations with which it was under
taken. In reality, however, it fulfilled none of them.
The sum of its experiences may be stated in two sen

tences. Edward offered himself for admission as a
student of the Royal Academy, but the specimens of
his handiwork, which, according to custom, he showed,
were not thought satisfactory, and he was refused. He
then placed himself under the tuition of Mr. Sass, a
well-known London artist, who has numbered among
his pupils many of our distinguished painters. Mr. Sass,
however, held out so little encouragement to young
Forbes to make painting his profession, that he soon
abandoned all thought of formally prosecuting and
after residence of some four months in London, re
turned for a few days to the Isle of Man, and then pro
ceeded to Edinburgh, where he began the study of
a
                                                                                it,
72  MEM0IR OF  CHAP. HI.

Imedicine in November 1831. These particulars have

learned from his sister, Mrs. Attwood ; from Mr. Garvin,

who accompanied him to London ; and from a journal
of his own. Mrs. Attwood, in answer to queries on this
point, says, "The only lessons in oil-painting which
Edward received in the Isle of Man were from a deaf

and dumb gentleman, named Robert Kerr, of Edinburgh,

brother of Lady G --, who, if I remember rightly, gave

lessons without the knowledge of his family. The best

picture Edward painted in oil I have now (1857) with

me in California. It is a copy from one of the Italian

masters, representing ' The Lord of the Vineyard with
the labourer returning the penny, and the clerk waiting,
pen in hand, to enter the result in the account-book

before him.' It is one of the few which he took pains

to finish, and the expression of each face is admirable.
When he went up to London in 1831, he took with him

an original painting of his own to exhibit ; but, although

the design was considered good, it wanted finish, and
was in consequence rejected. After studying for a time
with Mr. Sass, he found the hard work it required to
become eminent, and his great passion being for Na

 tural History, he abandoned painting as a profession.

Although disappointed, I think he did not regret this

 step. His studying medicine at Edinburgh was by our
 father's request, that he might have a profession to fall
 back upon in case of necessity."

     Mr. Garvin has very kindly given me all the particulars
 he could recall of incidents which happened twenty-six

years before. He does not conceal that from the first he

strongly disapproved of the London journey, nor does he
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  73

Iprofess to be a judge of art. However, think it best to

leave the reader to decide for himself what deduction must
be made from Mr. Garvin's conclusions on the score of
bias or disqualification. He is the only witness who can

be called, in reference to the period before us. In reply

to a question concerning his pupil's instruction in art,
he states that, in the estimate of his relatives, "he was

nothing else than a Reynolds or a Hogarth in embryo,
and instead of allowing the boy to receive an education

which would really have been of use to him, he was put
under the tuition of a deaf and dumb man in the island

to do oil-painting. A picture of the Virgin and Child
was executed in oil It was a prodigy of talent, and

decided his parents at once to send the lad to London

Ito study under some eminent artist. As was going
Ithere, was requested to take Edward with me, and

make the necessary arrangements. On inquiry after our

Iarrival, found that Mr. Sass would be the best person
I could select, and on him we called. Before our visit
Iwas half over, could see that poor Edward's confidence

and high opinion of his merits were very considerably
shaken. He had brought some specimens of his draw
ings with him. Some of these Mr. Sass tossed with a

Ihumph, others with praise which think Edward would

rather have seen the papers thrown in the fire than have
heard. At all events it was plain that Mr. Sass thought

a better profession might have been chosen, and so I
believe Edward began to think himself. I gave a fair

statement of all this to Mr. and Mrs. Forbes, and strongly

advised that the lad might be allowed to return, devote

the interim to his Greek and Latin, and go to Edinburgh
74            MEMOIR OF                       CIIA1'. III.

Iin October.  think, after all that had passed, shame
Iprevented them from agreeing to this, and so left

Edward behind me. He went to Edinburgh in October.

I do not think that he ever turned his mind seriously

to medicine. Natural History was in short his main

pursuit."

   IIn another letter, Mr. Garvin says, " do not think

that Sass entertained any very high opinion of Edward

IForbes's artistic talents. Consequently he scarcely liked
to encourage him to make Art his profession.  know

[the italics are Mr. Garvin's] he told him it would take

a long time to get rid of the bad habits he had acquired.

IWhen parted with Edward he was much discouraged,

and but for shame would have been glad to return with
me." Mr. Garvin further refers to there having been " a

good deal of soreness and disappointment, and no little

mortification, that hopes and expectations were not

realized," but that Edward was quite reconciled to the
abandonment of Art as a profession.

    The fruitless issue of the art-journey to London can

excite no surprise. No one familiar with Edward Forbes's

later sketches will doubt that he had in him some of the

highest elements of a great painter, and would have beit,

come one had he devoted himself to Art with a single
eye to success in it. But after deducting the time spent
in school, and in preparing for the constant employ
ment of his pen on songs, paraphrases, valentines, tra

gedies, and what not, and the very large portion of his
leisure occupied in the pursuits of Natural History, there

remains but an insignificant residue to allot to Art.

That residue, moreover, was spent or misspent under the
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.                     15

guidance of a provincial drawing-master unknown to

fame, and of a deaf and dumb amateur painter whose

infirmity must have seriously lessened his usefulness as

a teacher. Add to this, that when out of sight of these

preceptors the boy was permitted to follow any style of

drawing that he fancied, and to perpetuate every man

nerism and evil habit which he had caught from bad

models or had unconsciously acquired ; and who shall

wonder that the great London master, to whom style

and execution were everything, and fancy and inventive

ness nothing, frowned and shook his head, and, with

many a "humph," tossed the lad's sketches aside and

told him that he knew not whether he had most to learn

or to unlearn. It was not to be expected, however, that

he should follow Mr. Garvin's advice, and seek a cure for

his disappointment in immediately retracing his steps to

the Douglas Academy, and sitting down to the study of

Homer and Virgil. A summer in London must have

had immense prospective charms for Edward Forbes.

Nominally he continued to prosecute drawing under
Mr. Sass, and unquestionably he profited not a little by

his instructions ; but there can be no doubt that he had

made up his mind to join the University of Edinburgh

at the beginning of its next winter session, and was only

concerned about spending agreeably the interval till the

academical year commenced.

       How he spent his time in London he has sketched,

but only in bald and colourless outline, in a journal

which he kept during his residence there.1 It is a small

   i For n knowledge of the existence of  in the School of Mines, nnd for the loan

this journal I am indebted to my friend,  J.of it to S. Bowerbank, the naturalist.

Dr. John Percy, Professor of Metallurgy   The latter picked it up at a book-stall
76  MEMOIR OF                             CHAP. III.

unruled octavo, like a pass-book, with its author's name,
his coat of arms, and the shield of the Isle of Man, on

the first page. The earlier leaves are devoted to the
journal, the later ones to a cash account, a curiosity in
book-keeping. Several pages are occupied with confused
money calculations, and still more with pencil sketches,
chiefiy portraits, among which those of Lord Brougham
and Dr. Knox are conspicuous. Its statements are

exceedingly brief, some in ink, many in pencil, all of
them very scrawly, and often with difficulty legible, as

if the entries had been the last work of the evening,
and executed just as the writer was dropping asleep. In

another and characteristic respect the journal is curious.
The part devoted to London gives neither year nor
month, and in most cases only the number of the day
in the month, or instead of this the initial of the day
of the week. Occasionally both figure and initial are
given ; but they cannot be trusted, for one of the
months (August) has originally been represented with
thirty-three days, and after a hesitating correction is left
with thirty-two. This careless handling of figures we
shall afterwards find was a significant peculiarity of the
writer, fostered, no doubt, by imperfect schooling in
arithmetic. As occurring in the journal it made its
chronology for a time undecipherable ; but on the day
of leaving London he at last gave a month, viz., " Octo
ber, T. 18," and by reckoning backwards from this as
Tuesday the 18th, after amending the calendar by

in London, though how it found its way    and thence to Edinburgh, and several
thi: re is not known. It was not left be  particulars of his residence there from
hind him by its author in 1831, for it    November of that year to the close of

records his journey to the Isle of Man,   the summer session, 1832.
1831.                                 EDWARD FORBES.                                     77

changing the 32d and 33d days of August to 1st and

2d September, we find the journal to commence on

"S. 18," Saturday the 18th June, when he left the Isle

of Man, reaching London on the 21st. The year is still

to identify ; but by a reference to the king and queen

(William iv. and Adelaide), and to the coronation pro

cession which he witnessed, T. 6 (Tuesday
           it                                                                         Septem

                                                                          [?]
                                                                           is
ber 16th), must have been 1831. Some extracts from

the journal will illustrate its character. Here                                          the

second entry, one of quite unusual length, describing

the journey from Liverpool to London --
    " 19.--Breakfast. Bill, 14s. started by Bang up
       ;                                                      ;
                                                                         :
        S.
at eight met Mr.                                              fine houses, but no strand      ;; ;
               ;;
railroad
                 ;a
                     a

                            ;;

                                C
                                          a

                                                          ;;
           steam-coach and train passed surprising,
                                                                            ;
wonderful                                                                          ;
           passenger with air-cushion good compan

ions Prescot Warrington high cultivation, and flat but

fertile country bought veal-pie new road to
                                                              ;; ;
aqueducts often destroyed by frost and thaw plenty of
                                                                            ;
wood all sandstone; roses, generally blush curious cot                        ;
       ;;
              ;                                                                 a;
                        ;;

                                   ;
tages Knutsford very few parish churches                                              populous

country churches generally fine country more hilly

Staffordshire magnificent view potteries Newcastle
                                                                               ;
                                                                                      ;
[under Lyne] military to keep down the colliers women
and girls generally good-looking, being often pretty, not

handsome owing to awry noses dinner not fit to eat
                                       ; (?)                                          ;
                                                                                                              ;
starved got biscuit, and wine and water country;
          ;                                         ;
                                                        ;;
                      ;a
still very fine population increasing country magni
                                                                    ;
ficent, like one great park Stone Marquis of Stafford's                     ;

beautiful Stafford fine town Hall and Hospital good
       ;                                                                                 ;
             ;                                                                                ;

                                 ;                                                                   ;
                                    ;
houses fine town altogether Pcnkridge small town

Wolverhampton now for smoke, coal, and iron no
78  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. 111.

more trees or fields, but coal and iron pits ; railways ;

coke ; fire ; colliers ; fine houses ; blazing chimneys ;
beautiful churches; steam-engines; Pandemonium (upper
surface) ; underminings. Houses in thousands ; people in
millions, and in the midst of smoke ; no country more
populous ; groups of colliers, very picturesque, taking a
' treat for the hozes ;' some of them killed every day by

pits falling in ; not paid, but goods instead. Saw some
gipsies under a hedge ; country got right again ; fields,
etc. ; fine entrance to Birmingham ; seemingly very fond
of show there ; stopped at the Castle Inn ; two members
at tea ; hungry enough ; eat heartily ; took a walk ; lost
my way, but found it again (Pr. G.) ; fine buildings ;
very grand shops, etc. ; even find that the churches,
Royal Institution ? Royal Hotel, a magnificent room ;

hotels generally fine ; found my way back ; well pleased
with the town ; Birmingham a very fine place alto
gether, and indeed beautiful ; plenty of people ; good

old inn."

    The first day in London, is thus described :--

     " Slept well all night ; breakfasted ; waited for Mr.
Garvin till twelve o'clock ; went with Mr. Grieve past

St. Paul's to Blackfriars' Bridge ; beautiful view ; St.

Paul's there looks its proper size, towering above the
churches around it ; Somerset House looked very grand

along the river ; went to see the R. Acad. Exhib. ; the
Hercules Farnese immensely large ; the pictures very

Ishowy at first, but not so many fine ones as expected ;

Etty-- Maid of Judith one of the best histories; land
scapes in general, superior to histories ; Hilton a very

good painter."
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  79

    II shall now extract, under their dates, which fill up

in full, the reference to his Art studies :--
    June 22, 1831. -- Among other brief entries occurs

I" Picture safe. " This, presume, refers to the painting

in oil which he brought with him as a specimen of his

work.

    " June 23, 1831. --Went to the Academy about entry ;

rejected ; bought " [the remainder, consisting of three or
four words, is illegible]. This is the only allusion to his
rejection contained in the Journal, and it appears from it
that he offered himself for admission as a student of the

Royal Academy before seeing Mr. Sass, who would pro

bably, if consulted, have dissuaded him from the step.

The rest of June is spent in sight-seeing.

    "July 2. -- Mr. Sass's gallery. . . . Write home.

Mr. Sass's terms cheap." Then comes another interval

of sight-seeing whilst waiting instructions from home.
Letters travel slowly in those days, and nearly three

weeks are gone before, as should seem, directions for his
further proceedings in London arrive from the Isle of

Man. At length we find --
     " July 23. -- Mr. Sass ; his studio ; casts ; drawing-

paper, etc."

    "July 25. -- Drawing mat. ; port-crayon; Mr. Sass's,

first time ; his principles ; his pupils, etc."

     " July 26.-- Mr. Sass's, second time."
    "July 27.-- Mr. S. , an ice, raspberry -- not whole

some."

    "July 28.-- Mr. S. ; walk."
    "July 29.-- Mr. S. ; walk."
    " October 8--Mr. S. ; Reform Bill thrown out."
80  MEMOIR OF                               CIIAI". III.

      Similar entries occur against nearly every week-day
down to October 15 th, so that he must have daily at
tended this teacher with great regularity for about three
months ; but all the references are provokingly concise,
and throw no light on his progress as an artist. The

fullest allusions to his artist work are the following :-- .
     " September, Friday.1 -- Mr. S. ; went to Rowney and

Forster's for millboard, etc., cheap ; and oil to begin

pictures."

     " September 5. -- Mr. S. ; wet mor. ; painted the first

coat of my Tribute Money."

     "September 15. --Mr. S. ; home; painted."
     In addition, he notes in the briefest terms visits to

the National Gallery and other collections of paintings,

but there is nothing to quote from these references. In

truth, no one limited to the journal as his only source of
information, would discover from it that its writer was

an artist by profession. His fullest descriptions are of

theatres, churches, and spectacles ; and the most explicit

personal references are to literary productions. All the

sights of London are welcome to him. He climbs the
Monument, threads the Thames Tunnel, listens in the

whispering gallery of St. Paul's, is hoisted up at the
Coliseum, fleeced (not without protest) at the Tower,
makes the acquaintance of the beasts in the Zoological
Gardens, walks in the parks, takes off his hat to the King

   i This was apparently the first Friday   changed into 1st (of September). Be-
in September. In the Journal it is very     tween, however, the last Sunday in
illegibly marked 2 F. By the reckon-        August and the first in September seven
ingot' the book, however, it should be 3d,  days intervene, although the Journal is
for two days before it comes the 32d (!)    professedly kept from day to day. This
day of August, and immediately before       fact is noticed not for its chronological
it the 33d, afterwards, hesitatingly        but its psychological interest.
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.                         81

and Queen ; salutes " The Duke ;" steps into the Court
of Chancery and sketches Lord-Chancellor Brougham ;

attends a sitting of the Lords and Commons ; witnesses a
review in Hyde Park and a launch at Woolwich ; eats
whitebait at Greenwich ; promenades in Kensington

Gardens ; and assists at the Coronation procession.
     There is willing payment, also, to see the " Industri

ous Fleas ;" " Animalculae " through the microscope ; " a

whale," of which we read -- " sat in its belly " Mazeppa's

Horses," and the " Battle of Waterloo," at Astley's, where
he admires the " fine grouping ;" besides endless walks
through the streets of wondrous London, and endless
losings and re-findings of his way. He makes the round

of the chief theatres -- Drury Lane, Covent Garden, the

Haymarket, the Olympic--- and sees Fanny Kemble and

her father, Liston, Farren, and other famous actors and

actresses. To one so fond of poetry, painting, music,

sculpture, and so keenly alive to all the manifestations

of wit and humour, dramatic representations were a

source of peculiar pleasure all his life, but he records
his visits to the theatre in the baldest terms, such as,

" Haymarket Theatre. New Comedy. Mr. Farren, Mr.

Harley, etc."
     He was very diligent in attendance on church, going

generally twice each Sunday, and to a different church

or chapel on each occasion. In these attendances he had

an eye to the architecture and the altar-piece, as well as

an ear for the service. Here are some of his entries :--
     "June 26, Sunday. -- Went to a church near;1 a

   i 1 do not know in what part of Lon-       have been in the east end of the City,
don he resided at this time, but, from        at no very great distance from the Tower
various allusions, his lodgings appear to     or the Monument.

                                           F
82  MEMOIR OF                       CHAP. III.

poor one. Evening, to Foundling chapel. West's paint

ing of Little Children and Christ.  Fine singing."
                                     Went to St. Paul's,
    " July 3, S. --Stayed at home.

but too late for service."

    "July 17, S.--St. Stephen's, Walbrook ; beautiful

church. St. Bride's ; West's pic. of the Mart, of St.

Stephen."

    "August 21, Sunday. --Went to parish church. Even

ing, went to Female Orphan Asylum ; preaching good."

    "Sep. 17, S. --Went to St, Bennet's. Evening, to

St. Mary's, Walworth ; a curious church. Dr. Birch,

rector. Not a good lecture. Communion table."
     "Sep. 25, S. . . . Evening. Mr. Clayton at Poultry

Chapel ; his preaching flowery but fine."

    " October 9, &--Parish c. Evening, to St. Sepulchre's,

but Mr. Dale did not preach."

    From the extracts already made from the journal, it

will be sufficiently apparent that young Forbes did not

brood over his disappointment at the Royal Academy,

or lose heart at Mr. Sass's criticisms. On the other

hand, he falls diligently to work in his characteristic
multifarious way, and turns his residence in London
to the best account. That the reader may judge for

himself how he divided his time, I subjoin a conti

nuous extract from his diary, amounting to nearly one

page.

     In reading, however, what follows, as well as other
portions of the journal, it must not be forgotten that it

is designedly a meagre almanac or day-book, kept in a
spirit of the utmost reticence. What it does tell is of

positive value, but no conclusion can be drawn from its
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  83

silence. The rejection of the Royal Academy and the
adverse criticisms of Mr. Sass, he certainly felt keenly,
but he does not betray his disappointment by a single
word. His love of fun and frolic, and his delight in
society, must have found gratification in London as well

as elsewhere, but he only hints at this, and the general,

though certainly false impression conveyed by the jour
nal, in reference to its author, is that of an almost friend

less, solitary student. The names of several acquaint
ances are given, and we may infer that " Arthur Rigg "
and " Bob Gun " were young men. Occasional dinings
out and tea-drinkings are recorded ; and on one occa
sion, " at night a dance at Mrs. GreUier's ;" but all is
told in the driest fashion, and no one would infer from

these entries that the journalist was one who, wherever
he went, attracted a host of lovers and admirers around

him, as infallibly as a candle attracts moths :--
      " 9.-- Mr. S. ; Cullen's Nosology ; blank book and

paper ; 160 lines in Virgil."
     "10.-- Mr. S.; Virgil."
     " 11. -- Mr. S.; bought a Homer for 8s.; Mrs. Grieve's;

Mr. A. G. Kirby's Entomology ; apparatus ; Malcolm

on Cow."

     "12. --Mr. S. ; walked; went to see Carpenter's

microcosm ; living kaleides ; some optical illusions ;

animalcules ; bought the prints of Comic Annual ; 50

lines Homer."

     " 13.-- Mr. S. ; bought a Mirror ; received a letter."
     " 14.-- Went to church. In the evening to Mr.

Fletcher's chapel ; handsome out, not so in ; fine pulpit ;

not preach."
84                    MEMOIR OF                        CHAP. nr.

    " 15. -- Mr. S. ; Ingpen's Instructions in Entomology

for Is. 6d. ; did nothing."

     " 16. -- Mr. S. ; stayed in house ; took a walk in

Cheapside in the evening."

     " 1 7.-- Mr. S. ; went to Millwall ; plants, insects,

stones ; Isle of Dogs ; thunderstorm ; coached home."
     " 18.-- Mr. S. ; housed it."

     Cullen's Nosology, it appears from another entry,

cost a shilling, and I am afraid was dear at the price, for

it was probably never read. Its purchase, however, is

significant, as showing that Edward Forbes was early in

July looking forward to exchanging Art for Medicine as

a profession. Homer and Virgil had likewise a prospec

tive professional value for him, as keeping up his know

ledge of Greek and Latin ; but their literary interest

was probably still greater. It was to Literature, indeed,

next to Art, that he devoted most of his time in London.

Natural History, as he then especially loved to study
                                                       is a
among its living objects, in the open air, could not be                    ; it,

prosecuted in the Great City, so, when tired of handling

the pencil, he took up the pen and became litterateur.

The most impassioned entry in the journal the follow
ing, under August 20th -- "Mr.
                      :                                my first writing in
                           ;
                                      ;

                                       S.

                                                    ;
print in the Mirror, but rather blundered by printer

walked all Oxford Street west part not so fine as east.

Hyde Park home by Strand sent another to Limbird;'

[the publisher of the Mirror], 'El ultimo suspiro del;

Moro wrote out The Tulip also for him bought
                                                       ;
new hat for twelve shillings what's a Pic-Nic
                      ;                                    ?"
                                                                           a

    AVhether the new hat was bought on the strength of

the expected income which his writings should bring
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  86

him, or simply to celebrate his admission into the goodly

guild of writers of books, or with an eye to the mysteri

ous Pic-Nic which so suddenly appears above the horizon,

the taciturn journal does not decide. But that he was,

if not elated, at least comforted by the reflection of his

literary genius from the pages of the long dimmed and

forgotten Mirror, appears from an entry five days
later :--

     "September 25. --Mr. S. ; put three communications
in post ; one to Mirror; one to the Metropolitan, and

one to the Englishman's {Magazine] ; wrote out ' The
Ode on Painting.' "

     From the list of compositions referred to in last
chapter, it appears that the first writing was " Paper on
Manx Superstitions," in Mirror, No. 504, for August
1831, " The- Tulip," and " The Last Sigh of the Moors
(El ultimo suspiro del Moro)," " Ballad wrote in imit.
of Southcy," are marked in ink as "sent to Limbird for

Mirror" but they were not, it should seem, inserted, for
the statement is scored through. From the same list, it

appears that another of his poetical effusions called " The
Moss Rose," was written in imitation of Shelley's " Sensi

tive Plant," and sent to the Englishman's Magazine, which

Ihowever failed, so that the verses never were printed.

do not know what the communication addressed to the

Metropolitan was. So the Journal proceeds with tanta
lizing brevity, till, under October 1 0th, we read -- " Mr. S. ;

received a letter with home orders." On the 1 7th, the
only words legible in the brief entry arc, " Packing up ;"
and the next page of the Journal is headed " Journey

from London." Edward Forbes left London on the 18th
86  MEMOIR OF EDWARD FORBES.  CHAP. III.

October 1831. When he returned to it as a residence,
eleven years later, it was to occupy one of its places of
honour, and to rise from this, year by year, to higher
distinction, till, when he left the metropolis in 1854, the
eyes of the whole nation were upon him, and its chief
cities battled which should count him among its living

glories.
                CHAPTER IV.

ACADEMIC STUDENT LIFE IN EDINBURGH.

From London Edward Forbes returned to the Isle

of Man, and remained there till the close of the month,

making preparations for commencing the study of medi
cine in Edinburgh during the approaching winter session.

On 31st October he left Douglas, and, sailing by steamer

from Ramsey Bay to Glasgow, reached Edinburgh on

November 3d, 1831, where, without delay, he matricu

lated in the University, and began the study of anatomy

and chemistry.

Several of his biographers have dated his arrival in

Edinburgh a year later, but this is a mistake which it

seems well to correct at the outset. The Journal, so

fully referred to in the last chapter, is sufficient to

decide the matter. Two pages are occupied with the
" Journey from London," extending over three days,
and concluding on October 20th, with " The sea once
allmore ; the island in sight ; home ;  right ; end of

London tour."
     The next page is entitled " Journey to Edinburgh,"

and begins -- " On Monday, 31st October, left Douglas in
the gig, and got to Ramsey at seven at night." " On
88  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IV.

Thursday, 3d November, we read -- " Breakfast at Glas

gow ; booked outside ; middle road to Edinburgh ; tre
mendous snow ; Edinburgh." Next day was plainly
spent in making calls, and taking a stroll through the

strange city. Among other entries occur -- " Friday. --
Dr. Farquharson ; Arthur Seat ; Salisbury Crags ; High

Street ; New Town." There is no entry against the

Saturday or Sunday. The last entry runs-- " Monday.
-- University ; Dr. Knox, etc." It was thus on the first

Monday of November 1831, that Edward Forbes com
menced his studies in Edinburgh. He entered the Uni
versity of Edinburgh as a student in 1831, and returned
to it as a Professor in 1854. My own connexion with

the University extended over nearly the same period,

and in looking back across the quarter century that

separated the student from the Professor, I have been

startled by the number and magnitude of the changes
which together we witnessed.

     In 1831, the Reform Bill was still a Great Perhaps,
and men were mad with hopes and fears as to what the
end would be. The fiist ripple had scarcely stirred the
waters of ecclesiastical strife. Religious Oxford had not
begun to exchange glances with Rome, or the Church of
England to quicken with the abounding life which now
runs in her veins. The perfervidum ingenium of the
Scottish Presbyterians seemed needlessly wasting itself
on a small question affecting the mode of inducting a
minister, and was itself unconscious that it was about to

convulse the country, and rend asunder, the Church of
Scotland. Ireland seemed to have passed into a state of
chronic rebellion beyond hope, or help, or cure, for gene
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  89

rations to come. The cholera had just planted its black

flag on our shores, and the most stout-hearted quailed
before the new lieutenant of death ; but no one perceived
that the black flag had a silver lining, that the dreaded
pestilence was a just and merciful avenger, or that the
statistics of its slaughter were the necessary preamble of
those sanitary enactments which are saving more lives

than it took away. It has had to smite once again ; to

summon in its train the potato disease, the Irish famine,
the Irish fever, and to bid them do their worst before
men would perceive that it bore the sword of God, or
that its visits were judicial, and its chastisements in
mercy. But as yet all this was in the future.

      The map of Great Britain was meted out by mail-
coach chronometer, and the Postmaster-General's time-

bill was an immensely vaster region than it is now. It

took Edward Forbes three days to reach the Isle of Man

from London, and three more to reach Edinburgh from
the Isle of Man. There was but one public railway in
England, and none in Scotland or Ireland ; and even
the Duke of Wellington, appalled by the death of Hus-
kisson, shrank for years from the risk of a similar fate.

No steamship had crossed the Atlantic, or gone forth on
a long voyage into the open ocean, and according to
supposed authorities, none ever would. Screw-pro
pellers were still unheard of. Iron ships were rare
novelties ; and old sailors were still laughing at the
notion of war steamers.

      The Penny Postage was not yet an idea, even to the
imagination of Rowland Hill. The Electric Telegraph,
which might have been in 1800, and which had been
90  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IV.

seen to be a possibility since 1820, was still no more
than one, and seven years were to pass before England
received at the hands of Wheatstone her first electric

wires. Photography had revealed glimpses of its won
ders to the second Wedgwood, and had sought the
fostering care of the great Davy, but even he could not
prevent its being swallowed up in darkness, and the
amazing future of that art was hidden from every
human eye.

    It might seem at first sight as if those changes were

too general to deserve recognition in discussing the life
of an individual. But let any one who has lived through
the interval between 1830 and 1850 consider the differ

ence to him, whatever his special experiences may have
been, between no Reform Bill, no Tractarian movement

in England, no Free Church in Scotland, no rebellion in
Ireland, no Irish famine or emigration, no railroad, no
ocean steamer, no penny postage, no telegraph, and all
these made affirmative, and he will look on a reference

to none of them as superfluous.
     But besides those revolutions in the wide social and

moral atmosphere which envelopes the whole country,
there were others not less striking in the narrower, but
still wide, atmosphere within which Edward Forbes

specially laboured. Great and famous as Edinburgh
then was as a school of Medicine and of the Natural
Sciences, and shining forth, as it did, as one of the lights
of the world, it was entering on a new phasis as the seat
of a University, at the period under notice. The chief
features of this change were the immense strides which

the Physical Sciences were taking, and the altered and
183).  EDWARD FORBES.                                                        91

greatly increased practical character of the modes of
Iteaching them which these strides necessitated.
                                                                             do

not mean to imply by what has been said that Physics
alone were progressing, and that Art, Literature, Theo

logy, and Philosophy were lagging behind. On the

other hand, Logic and Metaphysics, as taught by the

illustrious Sir William Hamilton, were about to invest

Edinburgh with a new lustre as a school of Philosophy ;

and the name of John Wilson was still a mighty spell to

attract strangers to the Moral Philosophy classroom.

But these chairs, and still more those of Classics and

Theology, had little influence over the subject of this

IMemoir, and therefore pass them by.
    IIn speaking of the Natural Sciences more fully,

will not deny that we easily deceive ourselves as to the

greatness and importance of the changes which happen

in our own experience. Every year      in many senses,
                                       is,

                                                      ;
an annus mirabilis for some things the long-expected
       ;
                                 :
harvest for others the hopeful seed-sowing for others
the midway bursting of the flower-bud, with the spring

behind and the uncertain autumn yet to come. In the

perspective of the whole world's progress, the doings of

twenty-five years diminish into point so microscopic,
                                    a

that the historian does not dip his pen twice in record

ing them all. But twenty-five years, especially when

counted from the close of boyhood, are a long period in

the longest human life, and large part of century.
       it

                              is,
                                           a

                                            a if
                                                   it

                                                                          a
For us, accordingly, of this generation, the years between

1831 and 1855 must bulk large, even    were not the

case, as certainly that they form quarter century

remarkable for the rapidity and completeness of the
92  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IV.

change which it saw impressed upon all the physical

sciences.

      The chief science on which Medicine rests, Anatomy,
was still paralysed in its progress by the legal restric
tions which connected its study with the punishment
or the commission of crime. The hangman was the
only official from whose hands a dead human body could

be lawfully procured, and the more thoughtless among
the students anticipated a public execution with a cer
tain grim satisfaction and professional interest, which we
may be glad none need entertain at the present day.
The atrocities of Burke and Hare had spread terror and
indignation throughout the country, and, although in
reality their crimes had saved the graves of the dead
from desecration, a natural reaction of feeling led the
entire community to watch their churchyards with re
doubled jealousy, and to show no pity to the mercenary
resurrectionists or adventurous surgeons whom they
surprised at their ghoulish work.

      One of my earliest remembrances of this period, is
of a fellow-student lying under charge of the police in a
surgical ward of the Infirmary.^with a gunshot wound
received in a resurrectionary expedition to Musselburgh
churchyard. He was looked upon as a martyr by the
students, and as little better than a murderer by the
people. The law dealt mildly with such transgressors,
and, till roused by the hideous murders in Edinburgh,
was, in regard to resurrectionism generally, Justice with
out the scales, and with a very thick bandage over her

   i This was before the occupation of the present Surgical Hospital, which was then
in course of arrangement.
1831.                    EDWARD FORBES.                                  93

eyes. There was no doubt a Habeas Corpus Act for
such cases, but the afflicted relatives who put it in

operation to recover the bodies of those of whom the

grave had been robbed, might have pronounced               a it,         in

bitter irony, dead letter.
           a
       The janitors of the anatomical rooms detected lawa

officer through the most cunning disguises, and had
always extreme difficulty in understanding his errand

when he produced warrant to search for a body missed
from its grave. If at length he was admitted,
                                                           it  was

not till the corpus delicti had vanished through a hole

in the wall, or had otherwise disappeared, and with

looks of innocence or indignation every one disclaimed

all knowledge of the matter. It was rumoured, indeed,

that on such occasions the detective's purse was heavier

when he left than when he entered, but could that have

any connexion with his reporting that his mission had

failed The memory of these things                       fast passing
       ?                                   a
                                                    is
              it         only recently that lecture-room was

                     is
away, but

taken down in Surgeon Square, Edinburgh, provided

with sliding pannel through which subjects were hoisted
       a

into a dark garret whenever the approach of sheriffs
                                                        a

officer was signalled from the gate.1 Edward Forbes's
first scientific lectures were delivered in this room.

       Things had reached crisis at this period. The re
i

                          a
                                        a
petition in London of murders to supply the dissecting-
rooms with " subjects," at length roused the Legislature to

the necessity of total change in the law, but was not
                                                        it

                                                                      a
     This fact was communicated to me      University of Glasgow, he found the
liy my friend Professor Allen Thomson,
who added that when he entered on the      anatomical rooms furnished with simi
duties of the Chair of Anatomy in the      lar arrangement.
94  MEMOIR OF  CJIA1\ IV.

till 1832 that this change was effected. The University
Societies were still discussing in formal debate the rights
of a dead man's body.

    It fell to my own lot about this time, as the solitary

medical student in the University Diagnostic Society, to

Idefend the Anatomy Bill at one of its meetings ; but

cannot remember whether the Ayes or Noes had it. Nor
was it matter of half so much concern to the combatants

which side was victorious by number, as which was
most skilful in fence. He would have been counted a

very unworthy member who could not, on due notice,
take either side on this or any other topic ; and it must
not be held as implying indifference to truth, that to
make a good speech was considered much more im
portant than to win a verdict. The debates were

gymnastic exercises. The members were training them

selves for the bar, the pulpit, or the academic chair, if

haply they might reach one or other of these high places,
and could not always be discussing " Was Charles I. a

Martyr?" A novel topic was welcome to all classes of
students, and it was discussed by them in a novel

fashion. Eloquent embryo advocates were not wanting
on the one side to affirm that as doctors were the chief

gainers by the progress of anatomy, their bodies should

be the first if not the only ones to be sent to the dis

secting-rooms. On the other side, indignant half-fledged
doctors hasten to reply, that as lawyers were the chief
gainers by the existence of laws, they should be com
pelled to enlist as soldiers or sailors in times of civil
rebellion and threatened foreign invasion, and should
first of all men give their living bodies to defend the
1831.               EDWARD F0BBES.                                                                              95

realm. Much grave nonsense, intentional as well as un
intentional, was talked on both sides. There was endless
punning on the difference between His Majesty's subjects
and the doctor's subjects, and serio-comic discussions
on such physico-metaphysical problems as " Can a given
entity be at the same time a subject and an object?"

INo one, suppose, made more puns on the matter than

Edward Forbes. Some time after Mr. Warburton's
Anatomy Bill had come into operation, and whilst it was

exciting great disappointment by its imperfect working,
he assisted in rousing his fellow-students to petition for its
improvement by the following characteristic doggrel : --

                    THE ANATOMY BILL.

       0 come, ye grieving medicals, and listen to my lay,

       AVarburton's Bill the subject
                    I
                                           is,
                                               a
                                                          in
                                      bad one, loo, you'il say                        : :! ;

       But what else can sing about, since                    (ho rooms around,

       Than that curs'd bill, no other subject happens to be found

       0  measureless tho evils are, that mensure hath brought on

       Anatomy cut up quite, and surgery                      done
                    is
                         by
                                          a
                                                      it

                                                                        is
                                                                                   1
       The demonstrators, too, arc now all at their wits' end set

       And though they're at extremities, not one limb can they get.

       Should one   chance thorax get, one's parted from the part

       By that disheartening bill ere yet one can cut up the heart                    ;

       Our bones are boned and buried too, ere bonus we may gain,

       And to examine arteries, we try all in vain.

       The lecturers deserted are, amid their empty rooms,                            !
       And grave as dead men lying fast enshrouded in their tombs
       No resurrectionist dare take his digger in his paws,
       Lest that curs'd bill should hook him with its prohibition clause.

       The bill which burking should prevent has burked anatomy                       I!
       The bill for keeping murder down has murdered surgery
       The operation's capital, as some old fools have said,                                 !

       Since operations of all sorts knock'd hath on the head
                    it

          Bitty, Billy Warburton! what have you been about?
       O
             in if
       Moro subjects far had been brought in, had your bill been thrown                                    out;

       And with better measure you don't furnish us, ween,
                                                                                      I

                                                                                                        !
       Soon         the schools, as well as rooms, no body will be seen
96                   MEMOIR OF                                      CHAP. IV.

    Then rouse ye, suffering medicals, your sentiments declare ;    !
    The dead weight of Warburton's Bill no longer calmly bear ;

    Petition ! meet ! and speechify ! seize all sorts of occasions

    To demonstrate how much you stand in need of demonstrations

    Such jestings may seem to some inconvenient, but in

truth they were a sign that the worst was over. So

long as Resurrectionism was a perilous reality, no de

a

                             it

                                             it,

                                                        it

                                                                                      aa
bating society discussed  and no one made jests upon
                          led to murder,--and for season
it. When, moreover,

   large section of the public looked on every surgeon
and physician as indebted for his skill in saving life to

previous treacherous success in taking away, -- cry of

horror and indignation went round the land, and every
voice was raised in deprecation or reprehension. By

and by, however, when the only criminals were found

to be one or two of the basest of mankind, and a cure

for the immediate evil -- which, moreover, could not but
signally advance the progress of medicine-- was seen to

be within easy reach, the public became ashamed of the

inordinate terror had betrayed, and fell to mocking
    it
               it

                                                      it
                                                                     it
and making light of the spectre before which had so

recently been dumb. It was quite safe to laugh at

noAV that had decayed and waxed old, and was ready
to vanish away. But we must not forget that without

the terror we should never have had the laughter, and

that the introduction into the English language of the
verb " to burk," which, in spite of its vile associations,

has met with so wide an acceptance, was the prelude to
the introduction of the Anatomy Bill, which has done so

much in Great Britain for the science of physical life,

and for the art of healing.          Edward Forbes
   The bill for while worked badly.
    a
1831.  EDWARD FOB.BES.  97

studied the structure of the human frame under disad
vantages unknown to students of the present day. In
1831, and even considerably later, the medical student
was driven to expedients which made the progress of

anatomy very slow. A legacy of his incorporeal bones

was one of the choicest gifts which the 'passed' surgeon
or physician could confer upon the under-graduate, still
contemplating with alarm the terrors of the Examination
Hall and the realities of practice. Churchyard relics,
brown as the soil to which they were fast returning, and
such as no student would now finger, were carefully pre

served and diligently handled. An entire human skull
was in possession of very few ; a complete set of dead
bones was in possession of none, and inaccessible gene
rally to all. Many were indebted to casts or engrav

ings for nearly all that they knew of the structure of

the body.

     The practice also of consigning the bodies of executed
criminals to the anatomists, which at one time had been

a decided boon to medical science, had latterly become
the opposite, by investing all post-mortem examinations
with an air of ignominy. This was especially the case
with the humbler classes, whose vague dread of dissec
tion was sharpened into precision by the vulgar broad

sides sold through the streets after every execution. In

his " dying speech," which was as authentic on this as on
most other matters, the condemned criminal was always
represented as anticipating with greater horror the touch
of " Monro's scalpel " than aught else that could come
after death.

      Time and the decreasing frequency of executions

                                                               G
98  MEMOIR OF  CIIA1'. IV.

have gradually effaced this feeling, or prevented its de
velopment. But when we consider how many the hin
drances were, the wonder is that so many men were
educated to the highest skill as physicians and surgeons.
The student thus trained had more credit than his sue

cessor at the present day, surrounded by all the appli
ances for prosecuting science which now abound. But
no amount of genius, patience, and perseverance can com

pensate for scantiness of the essential matter on which

they are to expend themselves. The practical art of

medicine might make shift to go on, but there could be
no enlarged science of anatomy, or a full development of
physiology and biology, whilst teacher and pupil were

debarred from the amplest exploration of the bodies

of the dead. It is far from a mere coincidence that

those sciences have been totally revolutionized since the
passage of the Anatomy Bill.

      Chemistry, not less than anatomy, though for other
reasons, was also during Edward Forbes's novitiate in

the throes of a great change. A corner of the mantle

of Joseph Black had fallen, late in the preceding cen
tury, on Charles Hope, a lesser but still a considerable

prophet. In his hands the Edinburgh Chair of Chemis
try had become the most famous in Great Britain ;
and, except in Paris, it had been unsurpassed in one

particular for quarter of a century in Europe. It owed

this pre-eminence to the grace and skill with which
the Professor illustrated his daily winter lectures by
an ample exhibition of happily devised and dexterously
executed experiments. Dr. Hope had nothing of the
fascinative eloquence or genius of Davy, or of the in
EDWARD FORBES.  99

ventive manipulative skill of Wollaston, or of the pene
trating insight of Dalton. His elocution was slow and
pompous ; his manner cold and ungenial ; but he was
an admirable expositor, and a most successful public

experimenter. Had his love of science or his ambition

been greater, he had capacity sufficient to have made
himself distinguished as a discoverer. But he was satis
fied with the reputation and the wealth which his Uni

versity lectures brought him, and he fairly earned and

deserved both. Experimental illustration of prelections
was not a novelty of his introducing. But no one before
him, in this country at least, had ventured to give a
series of strictly scientific lectures, extending for five
days weekly over nearly six months, and each illustrated
to the full by experiments. To his honour be it said, he

simplified and legitimately popularized chemistry with
out vulgarizing it. There were no needless blazings of

phosphorus, or showy exhibitions of blue lights. A

conjuror might have envied his dexterity of hand, but
he would have despised the total absence of theatrical
display, and have smiled at the serious gravity with
which the Professor poured an acid on a lump of chalk,
and solemnly expounded why the latter effervesced. He
was little loved, but greatly respected by the students ;
who complained of his chilling, unsympathizing manner,
but at the same time acknowledged their obligations to
him as a teacher.

     Like all other good teachers of a rapidly advancing
science, he unavoidably, and to a great extent uninten
tionally, made his pupils eager for more than even he
could give them. The plirase, to " read a lecture," so
100                  MEMOIR OF                          CHAI'. IV.

common in the English Universities, had, to a great

extent, lost its significance in those of the North, and
even the word ' lecture' had ceased to accord with its dic

tionary meaning. Every subject of academic prelection
admitting of public experimental illustration had come

to receive  and the lecture had necessarily acquired
            it,
                                    a
much of the character of commentary, often rendered

extempore by the exigencies of experiment.              The re

volution thus effected on the style of lecturing led to
Iffurther changes.
                     were good for the student sitting
                     it by it
in the lecture-room not merely to hear striking physical;
                                          if
                                              it a
phenomenon described, but to witness reproduced and

made patent to his senses and             the great laws of

chemistry, heat, electricity, and the like, were rendered

doubly intelligible     systematic illustrations of their
working on matter,   would be still better the students
                                                    if

could one by one repeat such experiments for themselves,

and make themselves thoroughly familiar with at least
the leading phenomena, and the more important laws of
the fundamental physical sciences. Moreover, in the
case of chemistry, knowledge of its methods of aualysis
as an art was not less valuable to the physician than
            a                                           Aa
                            a
familiarity with its laws as science.

     The want thus felt was long left unsatisfied.

few of the more energetic students, who had sufficient
pecuniary means, formed themselves into small societies,
and met at intervals in some convenient garret or cellar

to try experiments.  I  have heard my senior colleagues

in the University refer to the scenes which occurred at
these assemblages -- the only " practical chemistry classes"

of the earlier part of this century. There were the usual
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.                    101

number of conflagrations and unintentional explosions,

with much breakage of glass ; and the acquisition, on the
part of some, as their subsequent career proved, of both

science and practical skill.1 But suitable rooms, appa

ratus, books, and teachers were beyond the reach of the

majority of students, who, moreover, could not afford to

pay for such as were attainable. Dr. Hope gave little

or no encouragement to the new movement, which ran

counter to his personal tastes, and did not promise to

serve his pecuniary interests. But shortly before Edward

Forbes began his medical studies, Dr. David B. Reid,

beyond the University walls, had commenced a system

of instruction in Practical Chemistry which for the time

was a great advance. It aimed more at enabling each

student to familiarize himself by experiments made

under the directions of a teacher, with the properties

of the chief chemical substances, and the phenomena

attending their action on each other, than at making

him a practical chemist in the sense of an analyst ;

but it did something for him also in this respect. The

introducer of this system was a man of great energy,

and by satisfying, to some degree, a strongly felt want
of the time, laid the foundation of our educational

system of practical chemistry. His scheme was far

too rough and rudimentary to serve for more than a

beginning, but it was easy to graft upon it a better

system, and to introduce on its basis the admirable

methods of practical instruction in chemical research

and analysis which have been prosecuted on a smaller

   i Two of the most zealous and dis-    the present Professors of Materia Medica
                                         and Clinical Surgery, Dr. Chriatison
tinguished performers at these prehis-   and Mr. Syme.
toric practical chemistry classes, were
102  MEMOIR OF  C1IA1'. IV.

scale by the great chemists of England, but matured
mainly in the laboratories of Sweden, France, and
Germany. Edward Forbes was a zealous student in
chemistry, both under Dr. Hope and Dr. Reid.

      Where the two fundamental sciences of the eminently
realistic and practical profession of Medicine were thus
daily coming before the student in a more concrete form,
the cognate sciences could not long avoid a similar change.

If the novice could best learn Anatomy by taking up the

scalpel and forceps, and dissecting for himself ; and could
best learn Chemistry by handling the retort and crucible,
and familiarizing his own eyes and fingers with the
appearance of chemical substances and the modes of

manipulating them, was this not also the best plan for
learning the other sciences which dealt in concrete
realities ?

      Each physical science, in the ratio of its progress,
was feeling the necessity of recognising this principle, in
expounding, as well as in acquiring, the truths which it
embodied, but each likewise affected, by contagion, all
the other physical sciences, and was in turn affected by
them. Botany, for example, had always been taught
practically in Edinburgh, which has been adorned for

generations by an admirable and constantly improving
" Physic " or Botanic Garden. The -site of this had been
altered at long intervals, as the extension of the town
rendered expedient. Thirty years ago, although it had
not attained its present perfection, it was one of the
finest gardens of its kind in the country. An abundant
display of plants growing in the open air illustrated the
botanical systems. There were large plots set apart for
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  103

the more important herbs, etc., used in medicine, and
ample greenhouses filled with exotics.

      From all those sources were obtained the subject-
matter and illustrations of the formal prelections de
livered in a pleasant lecture-room in the Gardens, where
the foliage of the luxuriant trees, which peeped in at its
windows, served as window-blinds, and singing birds
took the place of the college bell. Edinburgh, moreover

-- a city set on a hill--stands in the midst of a rich and

picturesque natural garden, possessing a Flora of great
variety, and easily accessible to pedestrians. To an
extent unknown elsewhere in Great Britain, least of all,

perhaps, in London, the energetic and genial professor
led his students, each summer's Saturday, on a botanizing
march in some direction across the country within a few
miles of Edinburgh. In the autumn he headed a smaller
party on a continuous excursion of a week or more, to

more distant districts, such as Clova in Forfar, Suther

land, the Welsh hills, or the Lakes of Killarney. The

field botanists who made these campaigns, acquired a
knowledge of plants, such as closet study and the finger
ing of herbarium mummies, cannot give. They gained
health to the bargain, and enjoyed not a little fun ; whilst
now and then, like other campaigners foraging in lands
not their own, a casus belli would occur, and the invaders

be accused of forgetting that the fields in which they
were reaping what they had not sowed, were the pro

perty of neutrals, who could forbid their presence if they

pleased. The more thoughtless students alone gave
occasion to complaints, which were rare. Genial and
hearty though the professor of the day, Dr. Graham, was,
104  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IV.

he could become the stern provost-marshal if occasion

demanded. But the hearty welcome shown year after
year to the University botanizing parties, by those who
have long received their visits, is the best proof that the
landed proprietors and farmers, whose grounds were tra
versed, were willing to excuse a little youthful folly, for
the sake of the good which so largely preponderated.

     Taught in this way, Botany had long been in Edin
burgh a favourite study with the more accomplished

students of Medicine. It had attractions also for the

more discursive students in Theology ; and in truth,
there was a greater mingling of students of all the
Faculties, as well as of amateurs, at the Botanic Garden,

at lecture time, than in any other place connected with
the University. But the science thus cherished had

great advances to make. Impelled by the hidden law

of its own progress ; furnished day by day from every
quarter of the globe with new materials to analyse and
systematize ; provided with new instruments of re
search, and beckoned to new discoveries, by the illumi
nation cast on its darker regions by the ever-brightening
light of the advancing sister sciences, and the ever-

increasing demands of the progressive industrial arts,
Botany was about to take a bound forward, which soon
rendered new appliances for teaching it requisite on

 every side.

     In the earlier student days of Edward Forbes, it was

a dispute among the students whether Professor Graham,
who was an accomplished botanist for his day, had six
or seven diagrams to illustrate the structure of plants.

A microscope was never seen in the class-room, and
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  105

the majority of students could not have told with con
fidence which end of the tube should be put to the eye.
No instruction was given in dissecting or examining
plants, further than by pulling them to pieces -with the
fingers, and examining them with a pocket lens. There
was no subdivision of the class into sections, who, in

convenient small groups, could be tutorially taught from
the systematic arrangements of plants in the garden,
or the rare exotics in the greenhouses. Finally, though
every student was laudably encouraged by precept,
prize, and example to collect a herbarium, and preserve
a hortus siccus of the smaller plants, a mausoleum of the
giants was unknown, and a museum for them would
have seemed to most, like a sepulchre in the midst of a
garden of roses.

     Long before Edward Forbes returned to Edinburgh,

all was changed. Steamships were carrying adventurous
botanists to every region of the globe, and bringing back
unlooked-for plants and vegetable products to delight
the eye of the philosopher, and the hand of the worker.
Men of remarkable genius were, with unexampled rapi
dity, turning those treasures to account, and tracing
with every mechanical, optical, and chemical help, the
structure or anatomy of plants down to the minimum
visibile. Others were studying their functions or phy
siology, the laws of their reproduction or development,
their geographical distribution, generic and other alli
ances, and all in addition that makes up the scientific
record of plant-life, with equal energy and success. The
kindred sciences of Animal Anatomy and Physiology,
advancing in their own line with similar rapidity, were
106  MEMOIR OF                                                                     CHAP. IV.

 largely assisting, by their side lights, the solution of many
 problems, in Botany.

       Geology had recovered to the light of day the lost
 plant-world of the past, and the botanist had found the

 existing plant-life acquire a new meaning when com
 pared and contrasted with it.

       Organic Chemistry was at length able to add rapidity
 to accuracy in its analyses of vegetable (and not less of
 animal) substances, and Inorganic Chemistry had vastly

multiplied its analytical resources. A new chemical

 foundation was thus laid beneath Botany as a science,
 and Agriculture as an art, and the relations of a plant to
 soil, air, and water, could be reasoned about from an

 abundance of quickly collected, yet trustworthy, data,
 such as antiquated even modern text-books, with un

 heard-of rapidity.

     Industrial Art on every side was welcoming and

turning to unexpected account the foreign timbers,

bread-stuffs, dye-woods, drugs, resins, gutta-perchas, oils,
waxes, textile fibres, and the like, which were revealed to

     by tantalizing importations, as abounding in strange
lands. Museums, where indigo, cotton, palm oil, caout
chouc, and all the other raw materials which vegetables
furnish to the arts, might be seen and studied by prac
tical men, were, one might say, creating themselves in
different parts of the country.

     Thus happened, that within a very short period after
the appointment of new Professor of Botany, in the
person of Edward Forbes's friend, Dr. Balfour, the science
he taught burst into fulness of foliage and richness
of flower, like the quick budding in spring of Canadian
it,

           it

                                    aa
                                                                               aa
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  107

forest, whose leaves, travellers tell us, expand audibly
and visibly, and deepen in colour even while you gaze
upon them. The seven diagrams of the class-room soon
multiplied to many hundreds. Microscopes were pro
vided. The students were shown through them the
actual plant tissues, were taught how to prepare micro
scopic sections, and how to handle the microscope.

     Arranged in convenient detachments they listened to
the Professor's al fresco disquisitions on the plants grow
ing in the open garden, and in turn visited the green
houses along with him. A new lecture-room, light and
airy, replaced the old one, and the site of the latter was

occupied by a museum where preserved fruits, seeds,
sections of timber, casts and models of plants, and their

organs, --the fossils of the Coal Measures, and of other
geological formations,-- microscopic sections of recent and
extinct plants,-- photographs of such sections, -- the raw

industrial material derived from the vegetable kingdom,
and the manufactured products obtained from these

materials, besides many accessary specimens, --were at all

times open to inspection. The garden meanwhile was

extending its area, the greenhouses were enlarging and
anticipating the period since come, when a new and

splendid Palm-house should supplement their range.
The rapid extension of railroads, and multiplication of

steamboats were every day magnifying the regions
accessible to the botanical excursionists. This week, Dr.

Balfour's party were clambering up the Bass Rock,
gathering, in the midst of the perplexed solan geese, its
scanty but curious flora. Next day, after bathing in a
body in the sea bay of Burntisland, they were scouring
108  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IV.

the kingdom of Fife. The week after, you heard of them
as having invaded Arran in the Clyde, and pushed their
foraging parties to the very summit of Goat Fell. When

the academic session was over, they were no longer con
tent with trips to the more distant corners of their own

land, but organized excursions to the Continent. Beard

less faces came back bearded ; English sticks had been
replaced by Alpenstocks. You heard much of glaciers,
and were shown photographs of your friends in their
field costume, looking very disreputable, and like so

many scarecrows.
     Of the seminal beginning of these changes, Edward

Forbes was a witness; of their later development he

was to some extent a cause.

    If Anatomy, Botany, and Chemistry were thus ad

vancing, it was impossible that Natural History, which
is their complement, and much more, should remain at

rest. On the other hand, carried forward by the com

bined flood of all their swelling tides, and adding its own
vis viva to the stream, it was altering more rapidly than

any of them. It was represented in the University of

Edinburgh by Professor Jameson, who had won for
himself a European reputation as a naturalist, and was
surrounded, when Edward Forbes first made his acquaint
ance, by a band of eager students of Natural History,
some his peers, others his pupils. Jameson was a re
markable man. Grave, taciturn, and reserved in manner,

devoted specially to Mineralogy, the narrowest in some
respects of all the departments of the science he pro
fessed, he seemed much better fitted for the secluded life

of a student, than for the duties of a University chair.
1S31.  EDWARD FORBES.  109

Nevertheless, there was in him a deep, quiet enthusiasm
for his favourite science, which his ungeniality of nature

could not prevent being contagious, and he became, what
many of his brilliant colleagues failed to become, the
founder of a School. The spectacle of his perseverance,

earnestness, and life-long devotion to his work, overcame
the effect of his taciturnity and reserve. These were in

curable peculiarities, which probably he would have been

as well pleased as others to exchange for their opposites.

After all however, they formed only a tough rind to the
man, like that of the pomegranate, which when pierced

yields a pleasant juice, fragrant and sweet, though not
without acidulous sharpness. Intercourse with him, ac

cordingly, soon dispelled the notion that he was a man
wrapped up in himself, happy only when fingering or
scratching minerals. Side by side with some of the

narrowest opinions, which he held and defended most

obstinately, was a wide and intelligent sympathy with
the progress of every department of physical science.
Nor was this sympathy inactive. The Wernerian So

ciety, which he founded, named after a mineralogist,
but including every class of naturalists, and discussing
every branch of their science, was one evidence of the
catholicity of his scientific tastes. Another was the
Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, the editing of which
was to him, for half a century, a labour of love. Of all

Ithe scientific journals have encountered, it is the most

varied and multifarious in its contents, and it was not
edited by proxy. But the greatest proof of the broad
view which Jameson took of the territory rightfully be
longing to Natural History, is to be found in the Museum
110  MEMOIR OP                                 CHAP. IV.

he collected at Edinburgh, where it remains a memorial

of him, and is every day receiving additions.

     Of this Museum, and the peculiar attractions which it

had for Edward Forbes, we shall have much to say again.

At present it concerns us as marking, by the nature of its

contents, the condition in which Natural History was
Iwhen he recommenced study in Edinburgh.
                                               had

known the Museum from boyhood, and would have been

glad to have known so delightful a place a great deal
better, but the charge of a shilling, which was then

exacted for admission, was often beyond the holiday re

Isources of a schoolboy's pocket. Still, visited it suf

ficiently often to know its general arrangements, some of

which yet remain unchanged. The larger vertebrates,

and especially the mammals, were well represented by
stuffed specimens. Of stuffed birds there was a large
and very fine collection ; and in mineralogy, as might

have been expected from the tastes of the Professor, the

Museum was peculiarly rich. Of shells, there was a

goodly show, and of insects there was understood to be

a large collection, which was not usually displayed, as

light is highly destructive to the specimens. Fishes and

reptiles were represented, to some considerable extent,

by preserved and mounted skins, and there was a highly

interesting, though not very numerous assemblage, of the

skulls of different nations, which, however, was not open

to general inspection. Besides the objects enumerated,
there was the usual array of miscellaneous varieties, --the

tatooed head of a New Zealand chief, an Esquimaux

canoe, a narwhal's horn, a brain coral, and much else,

scattered here and there through the Museum after a
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.                  Ill

fashion which is fast being abandoned. Moreover, a
large number of specimens, in various departments of

Natural History, were unavoidably shut up in store
rooms and cellars, from want of space to display them.

The Museum, however, could not but be considered as

tolerably ample in its dimensions.

       The lower hall was almost entirely occupied by large

stuffed quadrupeds and other mammals.  The upper

hall was devoted to mineralogy, and in part to birds, to

which also the greater part of the galleries was consigned.

The remaining objects were accommodated in side-rooms,

or disposed of in corners.

       With all its defects it was a highly instructive

Museum, and Jameson made excellent use of it in illus

trating his lectures. It was too much, however, regarded

by the Professor as an appendage to the lecture-room.

He resisted to the last throwing it open to the public,

and those who paid a fee for admission into its halls, did

not find them so occupied, arranged, and placarded as to

make the Museum what if possible every museum should

be, a self-interpreting, illustrated series of treatises on the
various groups of objects it contains. Great deficiencies,
moreover, existed in it. None, perhaps, was more remark

able, considering the splendour of the mineralogical collec

tion, than that shown in the case of Geology. Some speci

mens of rocks and fossils there were, but no series of illus

trations representing the stratigraphical, palaeontological,
or industrial relations of the several geological formations.
The student was not furnished with the means of fami

liarizing his eye with the lithological or mineralogical
characters of even the igneous rocks, still less with those
112  MEMOIR OF                              CHAP. IV.

of the sedimentary strata. No systematic collection ex

isted of the fossils which so strikingly characterize the

majority of the aqueous rocks.  Nor was there any

provision in the way of drawings, diagrams, models,

classified ores, slags, metals, and the like, to enable the

mining engineer to learn how and where to look for coal,
for limestone, black-band, or lead ore, and how to recog

nise them when he encountered them.

    It would be the height of folly to complain that these

geological desiderata, as yet but very* partially possessed
by us, were not attained in any degree, quarter of a

century ago. Jameson could not have got them, what

ever efforts he had made. Directly he perhaps made no

efforts, but indirectly he trained or influenced the men

who, like Edward Forbes, have changed our museums

from sepulchres, sacred to death and silence, into temples

where the Pythoness is always present, and always in

spired, and the oracle is never ambiguous.

      Mineralogy, even, the special glory of the Museum,
was represented solely by specimens in their natural con

dition, which, however, were the finest attainable. Neither

the crystallographic, the optical, the chemical, or the in

dustrial relations of minerals received any illustrations.

Great deficiencies also existed in the zoological depart

ment. With the exception of insects, the invertebrate ani

mals had no visible recognition in the collection, and the

millions of sea-creatures, of lower grade than fishes, which
Edward Forbes made his special study, were acknow
ledged as worthy of admission only in so far as they left

behind them after death, shells of sea-marble or of mother

of-pcarl, which were as beautiful and as lasting as minerals.
1S31.  EDWARD FORBES.  113

      Of no class of animals, moreover, high or low, was
there any series of specimens illustrating its internal
structure. Skeletons ; separate organs and dissections of
important tissues preserved in spirits ; enlarged models of
minute structures ; microscopic sections ; diagrams and
drawings were almost totally wanting. In other words,
comparative anatomy was not regarded as an integral and
inseparable part of the zoological department of Natural
History, but was handed over to the human anatomist,
who fortunately in many cases accepted the transfer,
although in reality comparative anatomy was free alike
to the naturalist and the anatomist, but under the im

perative restriction that each should cultivate the common
territory, or pay the penalty of seeing his own science

languish, if he did not.
     In a word, the Natural History of Edward Forbes's

novitiate and Professor Jameson's prime, was too much,
so far at least as taught, a science dealing only with ex
ternal characters. The density, hardness, colour, lustre,

crystalline form, and one or two other sensible properties
of each mineral were carefully noted ; the chemical com
position was recorded with little or no commentary, and

there the inquiry ended, and the mineral was assigned
its place in a system. The great majority of the animal
specimens were simply stuffed skins. Of some creatures
there were only skeletons. Of a very few both the skin

and skeleton were preserved ; but all that lay between

the integuments and the bones was unrepresented. In
the estimate even of the educated, the prevailing notion
of a naturalist was of one who knew by sight, and could

draw, describe, and classify a great number of rocks,

                                                 H
114   MEMOTR OF                                 chap, nr..

minerals, shells, plants, animals, and it might be alsoa ita
              a
clouds, auroras, mock suns, and other meteorologicalit,

phenomena. In the case of animals, it should be addedit,
                            a
that the naturalist was understood to be largely familiar
with their habits during life, and the older observers
were certainly as skilful at watching these as any of their

successors

     No one of the great naturalists in reality belonged to
this skin-deep school. They knew that peculiar external
characters were the result or counterpart of peculiar in
ternal structure. They knew that systems of classifica
tion were to a great extent only matters of convenience,
and that they had a scientific value only in so far as they
recognised all the affinities, analogies, and relationships
 which linked together the objects of classification. But
 they felt this more fully than they expressed and the
 majority of their hearers did not perceive that they felt

     at all.

     It was plain that such state of matters could not

 last. Jameson begat love of Natural History in his
 students which could not be fed upon dried skins and
 glass eyes, or arrangements of living creatines in artificial
 groups as little true to nature, in many cases, as those in
 which children rank the contents of Noah's ark. The

 crisis was precipitated by the resolution of the Senatus
 Academicus of the University of Edinburgh, soon after
 Edward Forbes entered to make the study of Natural
 History imperative on all who proposed to graduate in
 medicine. This implied recognising Natural History as

    subject on which candidates for the title of Physician
 should be examined by the Medical Faculty, and the
1831.            EDWARD FORBES.  115

entire University thus became interested, and entitled

to interfere in settling the best mode of teaching the

science.

    It would be doing Jameson great injustice to impute

to him any active opposition to the changes which now
began. Too advanced in years, and by nature too
strongly conservative, to be himself an active revolu

tionist, he allowed others, such as Edward Forbes and

John Goodsir, to devote their zeal and genius to the

initiation of reforms which should gradually undergo

accomplishment.  But though his sympathy was but

 dryly expressed, and less wise innovators than these
» favourite pupils received, instead of encouragement, only

a caustic hint to let well alone, he was no enemy to
progress. He had witnessed so many swift revolutions,
and so many silent progressive changes in science, that

to learn of a new one could not startle him. Neither

had he been a great discoverer whose fame was identified

with observations which later discoveries might dwarf
or eclipse, nor an extreme partisan who, for the sake of
his character for consistency, must uphold to the last
whatever views he had once maintained. An eclectic, not

a dogmatist ; a critic and expositor, rather than an ori

ginator ; and a wide and diligent reader of the current

scientific literature, he had, all his life long, been like one

afloat in a discovery-ship on a mighty unknown river.

Now there was swift sailing, and then long anchorages ;

floatings back and forwards as the tides ebbed and flowed,

but no end to the voyage. The river grew wider and

more attractive as the vessel sailed on ; and though

elderly passengers were constantly disembarking and
11G  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IV.

declaring that behind them was the Garden of Eden,
and before them a desolate wilderness, yet their places
were more than supplied by youthful adventurers for
whom the horizon was without a cloud, and all the.
future full of smiles. The grave professor neither dis

embarked, nor asked of the future more than of the past ;

he had voluntarily articled himself to the ship, and would

remain on board till he got his discharge. The expe
riences of Jameson were indeed those of an Ancient
Mariner. In his -early youth he had known Geology as

a territory belonging of right to the Sea-gods, and had

fought under Werner with failing fortunes, till Hutton
won for the Fire-gods one half, if not more, of the dis
puted territory. Then came a third set of claimants,

who professed to acknowledge both of the older ones,
but all the while mocked at Fire and Water as the

monarchs of the globe, and stole from each one half of
his territory, erecting a separate but professedly tributary
kingdom, which they called Palaeontology, and summoned
the spirits of all the dead plants and animals to defend.
He had seen the concrete crystallography of his early
days, which built up a great cube out of a multitude of
infinitesimally small ones, and acknowledged an infinity
of primary forms, replaced by an abstract scheme, deal
ing in ideal axes, arranged in a very few sets or systems,
each of which supplied a sufficient scaffolding for a
number of geometrically related forms. The one optical
marvel of certain transparent minerals, that they refracted
light doubly, had grown under his eyes into a multitude
of marvels, as day by day the existence of optical as well
as geometric axes in transparent crystals, was more and
XS31.  EDWARD FORBES.  117

more clearly recognised, and their power to polarize
light, and the action of polarized light upon them, were
brought into view.

     As for the chemical characters and composition of

minerals, they had, if possible, assum'cd in his experience

still more novel aspects than either the crystallographic

or the optical. A reference indeed to Chemistry may

close this section. Jameson had heard the last dying
echoes of the battle between the partisans of the phlo
giston and the antiphlogiston camp. He had long ended
his chemical studies before the names of Galvani and
Volta had been heard of in England, or the Voltaic
battery had been invented. The whole of Davy's career
was within his cognizance. Dalton's atomic theory
slowly struggled into acceptance under his eyes. Ber-
zelius revolutionized before him the entire chemical
department of Mineralogy. Mitscherlich established a
connexion between crystalline form and chemical com
position ; and Organic Chemistry changed from a crude
system of drug-making, into an elaborate storehouse of
essential bases, acids, and other principles, and became,
as we have seen under Botany, as perfect in its analyses
and system, as Inorganic Chemistry had already be

come.

      To one who had seen so many changes, what was one
more ? To one who had never witnessed rest, its post
ponement was no surprise and no trial. The sciences
which make up Natural History had been, from the first
moment Jameson had known them, like so many armies

in the field, -- now advancing, now cross-marching, now

bivouacking, now halting even for a long season in
118  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IV.

winter quarters, but never retreating; while now one,
and then another, and sometimes several, formed them

selves into movable columns, and struck across the

unknown region before them,-- passing rivers held im
passable, surmounting hills held insurmountable, and
permanently occupying new ground ; the old being
in part abandoned, in part marked by fortresses

and memorials, where trophies were preserved and

famous deeds commemorated. In these citadels the old

soldiers who were past campaigning found a resting-
place, and believed, or tried to believe, that all that
was worth fighting for had been won. But the veteran
of whom we speak, though his militant days were
over, followed the marching regiments in his litter, and
watched with keen interest the tactics of the young
generals. They took their own way, and he grimly or
graciously bade them God-speed. He encouraged his
younger colleague, James D. Forbes, in his beautiful and
elaborate researches on the glaciers. To him, Edward
Forbes dedicated the first-fruits of his explorations in
the sea ; and John Goodsir consulted with him about
those investigations in Comparative Anatomy, which,
even in his student days, gave promise of the fruit they

are so richly producing.
     Under a grave eclectic like this, Natural History

peacefully passed through a great crisis, and probably
underwent a much more equal development in all its
branches than it would have done under a more original
but more one-sided master.

    If we look back for a moment at the characteristic

aspect of the phasis through which the " Natural His
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.                             119

tory sciences " began to pass when Edward Forbes com
menced their academic study, we shall find that the
chief transforming influences were exerted from two
centres of change. The one had reference mainly to
Vegetable and Animal Anatomy and Physiology, includ
ing Botany and Zoology, and the pakeontological half

of Geolog)r, or, in a word, Biology --the science of living

things-- from man downwards to the smallest monad.
The other had reference to Chemistry, a peer of the
first rank in the kingdom of life ; ruler of high degree
over every creature during its active existence, and a
judge from whom, in one vast department, there is no
appeal, when death has set his seal on each organism.
The inorganic half of Geology, and all Mineralogy, were
largely affected by both influences, but were likewise
under the control of special modifying agencies which
told less or more upon the Biological Sciences.

      The one centre of change had for its effective weapon

the microscope-- the revealer of structure ; the other
the combustion tube--:the revealer of organic chemical

composition. The former was the anatomist's tool, the
latter the chemist's ; and both instruments, in the hands

of these workmen, were at the service of all the Physical

Sciences which examined minute mechanical structure

or chemical composition.

       The microscope was no unheard-of novelty. The

service it could render science had been demonstrated

by Robert Hooke, to mention no others, in his Micro-

graphia, some two centuries ago. From that time down

ward, philosophers and artists had by happy discoveries

                                     till had be
and inventions continually improved  it,

                                              it
120  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IV.

come a marvellous instrument. All the great observers
in Natural History were familiar with its use ; and it
was in the hands of students like Edward Forbes or
John Goodsir, and regarded as an indispensable instru
ment by them, years before it acquired the dominance
we are discussing. Nevertheless it was still an instru

ment understood and handled by few, and by such was

regarded with much the same feelings as an enthusiastic

musician regards his Cremona violin, or as, till recently, a

sportsman would have regarded his Manton rifle. There
was no choice between a costly instrument, far beyond

the resources of most students ; and a Birmingham toy,
which, useless for research, was the dearer instrument of

the two. Suddenly the microscope became the subj ect of a
series of improvements as numerous and thorough-going

as those the musket has undergone within the last very
few years. Solicited and encouraged by the naturalists
of all countries, and guided by the most accomplished
physicists of the day, the practical opticians of Italy,
Germany, France, and England, vied with each other in
raising the power and lowering the cost of the micro
scope, till a good instrument was within the pecuniary
resources of every student. For ten pounds you could
procure a better instrument than fifty pounds would
have purchased a few years before, and for half the
 latter sum, such an instrument as no money could have

procured shortly before. The effect of these improve
ments rapidly appeared. Within ten years of Edward
Forbes's arrival in Edinburgh, the army of microscopists
which in the interval had come upon the field, had
turned their weapons to so good account, that they had
1831.                         EDWARD FORBES.                                                                                          121

won a territory entirely to themselves, and men heard

with surprise of a new science called Histology, literally,
." the Science of Tissues," more fully, " the microscopic
exposition of the minute structural peculiarities of plants
and animals." The Continental physiologists soon in
troduced the systematic instruction of their pupils in
the use of the microscope, and, in 1841, similar classes
were commenced in Edinburgh by Dr. John Hughes
Bennett, a fellow-student and intimate friend of Edward

Forbes.1

    The microscope has now become the fashion. It is

an indispensable article of furniture in a physician's con
sulting-room, whether he uses it or not ; and under a
glass shade is as graceful as a time-piece. Nor is the
fashion one which will soon pass away. Neither physi
cian nor physicist of any class can afford to ignore so

wondrously has its employment enlarged the boundaries

of every science which deals with visible structure. It

   needless to notice here that the eye only sees what
brings the power to see, whether naked or armed with a
microscope. The tools are nothing without the skilful
hand to handle them. But an improved tool improves
the skill of the hand, and here also of the eye which, to
gether with the hand, uses it. The trained hand and eye

soon perceive how their common tool may be made more
is
                                                                                   it,

                                                                        it

Dr. Bennett, now Professor of the         room, which placed at his disposal,
                                          knowing that first course of an unheard-
                                          of science must prove uarcmunerative.
                                          Histology wns then as much verbum
                                          insolent as at later period Technology
                                          was found to be. In both cases, Greek
                                          lexicons were opened and closed, with
                                          out making those who opened them
                                          almost anything the wiser.
i

                     I
                                       iIf

                                                           a aI
                                                                                                                                   a
Institutes of Medicine in the University

of Edinburgh, hns the merit,  mis

take not, of having introduced tho prac
tical study of Histology into Great Bri

tain. His first course of instructions,

given when he and were extra-acade

mical lecturers in the Medical School,

Edinburgh, was delivered in my lecture-
122  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IV.

perfect, and the tool thus further perfected trains them
to a higher skill. This in its turn realizes a still more
perfect tool ; and so acting and re-acting on each other,

the microscope and the microscopist have brought us
to our present advancement, where ten years reveal
more of the laws of structure, growth, development,
form, progressive change and ultimate decay, than ten
centuries did before. The words Histology and Mor
phology refer only to the services of the microscope
to organic nature, but there is a wondrous inorganic

microcosm also, where already it has reaped rich har

vests, and where far richer ones await reaping.
      The organic combustion-tube is a much less familiar

instrument than the microscope. The laws of light which
determine the construction of the latter, were known long
before the nature of the chemical elements, and their

modes of combination which determine the methods of

chemical analysis, were discovered. The same Robert
Hooke, who in the seventeenth century saw so fully the
value of the microscope, had a clear glimpse, along with
many of his contemporaries, of the combustion of an
organic substance as the way of analysing it. Tradition
reports that in an earlier age, Sir Walter Raleigh illus
trated this practically before Queen Elizabeth, making
what a modern chemist would call a quantitative analysis
of a pipeful of tobacco which he smoked in her presence ;

but if in truth the story be trustworthy, it only shows
that Sir Walter had not forgotten what as a student he

had read in Aristotle.

      Organic chemical analysis as now practised, cannot
date farther back than the period when water was dis
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  123

covered to be a compound of hydrogen and oxygen, and
carbonic acid to be a compound of carbon and oxygen ;
and these discoveries were not fully realized and appre

ciated till the very close of the eighteenth century. It

then became possible to analyse all vegetable and animal

substances which consisted only of carbon and hydrogen,
or of these and oxygen also ; for the carbon could all be

burned into carbonic acid, and the hydrogen could all be

burned into water, and from the weight of carbonic acid
and of water, yielded by a given weight of organic sub
stance when burned in oxygen, the weight of carbon and
of hydrogen, contained in the compounds thus yielded,

could always be calculated ; whilst, where oxygen also
was present, it was represented by the difference between
the sum of the hydrogen and carbon, and the weight of
substance originally burned. The principle thus estab
lished, was soon and successfully applied to the analysis

of gases, such as the carburettcd-hydrogens produced by

heating wood, coal, wax, and oil, but it was found im
mensely more difficult to apply it to these substances,

even when they consisted of the same ingredients as the

gases derived from them, which were so easily analysed.

It was equally difficult to apply the principle to the simi

lar compounds which abound in plants and animals ;
and the more complex combinations were totally beyond

ordinary analytical reach.
      There were chemists, indeed, of genius and skill

sufficient to master all these difficulties. Berzelius in
Sweden ; Gay-Lussac and Chevreul in France ; Faraday
and Prout in England ; and Walter Crum in Scotland,
had each succeeded, by methods of his own, in analysing
124  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IV.

the most complex organic compounds. But they de-'
manded time. You must not hurry them. The processes

were delicate : many precautions were necessary ; the
utmost care could not prevent frequent failure ; you
must allow yourself days for the analysis of a single sub
stance. To this requirement none could object. An

inaccurate analysis is not an analysis at all. But if each'
organic body were to consume days in its analysis, at

what rate of progress would the millions of vegetable
and animal substances be analysed ?

     Ingenious arithmeticians were spared the trouble of
calculating this question. A few modifications of the
apparatus already devised, a few additions to its simple
machinery, one or two substitutions of one material for
another, and a great reduction of the scale on which the

apparatus was made and worked, removed every diffi

culty. But very simple as the changes seemed to be, it
took much experience and skill and genius to effect

them. They were owing to the chemists already named,
and, in addition, to younger men, among whom none
will grudge a pre-eminence to Dumas of Paris, Mulder
of Utrecht, and Mitscherlich of Berlin ; but beyond all
question they were mainly due to Liebig of Gicssen,
where he made them, now of the world.

     With his combustion-tube, the analysis of an organic
compound became, from a work of days, a work of hours,
and by and by, a work of minutes. Before the first
decade of Edward Forbes's student life had ended,

Liebig's earliest work on Agricultural Chemistry, com
missioned by the British Association, was laid before it
at its meeting in Glasgow (1840), and from that date
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  125

the power of organic chemistry to alter and extend the
organismal sciences, was felt and acknowledged by all.

     Of the more practical medical sciences it is not
necessary to say much. With Anatomy, Chemistry, and

Physiology rapidly transforming themselves, they could
not possibly stand still. They were also, however, assist

ing themselves. The physician, including the surgeon,
had come to stand in so important a relation to the judge,
as the detector of the cause of death in doubtful cases,

the appraiser of the effect of injuries on the living frame,
the discriminator between sanity and insanity, the chief
witness in cases of alleged infanticide, and the decider
of legitimacy of birth -- besides otherwise assisting in

deciding questions of civil and criminal law--that a new

branch of science was recognised, linking Medicine and
Law together, as its alternative titles, Medical Jurisprud
ence and Forensic Medicine, imply. A chair of Medical

Jurisprudence had been established in Edinburgh, in

1807, and was occupied when Edward Forbes joined the
University, by Dr. Christison, who had filled it since

1822 with great distinction. In particular, he brought
his extensive acquaintance with chemistry, and skill in

analysis, to bear on the important subject of Toxicology,
and so simplified and improved the methods for detect

ing poisons by devices of his own, as well as by judicious
adoption of those introduced by the ablest toxicologists,
that the fraction of a grain of arsenic, or one drop of
prussic acid, could be unequivocally detected and iden

tified. It soon came about that, whereas lawyers and

doctors had equally shrunk from poisoning-cases as

always unsatisfactory to deal with, Toxicology became,
126  .MEMOIR OP                           OIIAr. IV.

so far at least as the question of administration of poison

was concerned, the most certain department of Medical

Jurisprudence. A student of a few weeks' training will

now unhesitatingly decide, after some hours' trial,

whether a suspected substance contains an appreciable
quantity of arsenic or not; but till Orfila and Chris-

tison, and their successors, found out the way, the most

accomplished physicians were often at fault.

    In 1832, Dr. Christison was transferred to the chair

of Materia Medica, which, including in its wide province

dietetics and medicaments, could not but be specially

affected by the new light which Chemistry afforded in

reference to the composition of food and of drugs, and

was certain to gain by its transference to one who could

bring a large acquaintance with Botany, and great accom

plishment and skill as a chemist, to supplement his expe

rience as a physician.                    Medica soon

     In his hands the subject of Materia  students. A

became one of the most attractive to

museum, still in many respects unrivalled, was by in

defatigable exertion furnished, step by step, with illus

trative specimens. Many of these were botanical, a few

mineral, gathered from all quarters of the globe. A

large number were chemical, and were chiefly prepared

in the laboratory attached to the lecture-room, where,

assisted by some of the more zealous lovers of chemistry

among the students, the Professor spent many hours each

day in chemical research.

    IAs one of these assistants, speak from personal ex

perience to the profound impression of a mighty change

passing over Medicine as an administratrix of substances,
1S3I.  EDWARD FORBES.  127

which in one sense are food, in another medicine, in

another poison, which my daily laboratory work made
upon me. Together with a gifted fellow-student and

Ifellow-chemist, the late Samuel Brown, often, as we

watched a process, wondered at the changes which our
selves had witnessed, and with the hopefulness and con
fidence of youth, echoed the prediction that these were
but the first-fruits of a far more wondrous harvest which

should yet be gathered. And if we looked sometimes in

the wrong direction for the harvest, and the fields are

still barren which we thought would first have grown
green, deserts have blossomed in other quarters where

 we had no hope of a flower. In our most sanguine

dreams we never entertained the prospect of a whole
new class of remedies being introduced, under the title
 of Aufesthetics, or foresaw what mercy was in store for
 mankind, in ether and chloroform. But a walk round

 the Materia Medica Museum, or a day's work in the

 associated laboratory, was enough to awake wonder and
boundless hope. Instead of the pounds of cinchona saw
 dust which the patient had formerly to swallow before
 his ague could be cured, a few grains of silky, white
 crystals of quinine were found sufficient to dispel the

 fever. Poppy-juice, instead of being dried up into a
 confused mixture of acids, alkaloids, gum, resin, caout
 chouc, and many other compounds, constituting a capri-
 cious soporific of uncertain strength, was subjected to an
 orderly analysis. Under skilful hands the dark-coloured,

 heavy smelling opium resolved itself into colourless,
 odourless crystals of many different kinds, one of which

 --morphia-- concentrated in itself, as its name implies,
128                    MEMOIR OP                 CHAP. IV.

the chief, if not the entire, sleep-producing, anodyne

virtues of the opium. The purified salts of this, far less

liable than the crude drug to disagree with the patient,

could be weighed to the fraction of a grain, and ad

ministered in the most nicely -proportioned dose to the

wakeful, agonized sufferer. The poppy had betrayed a

long-kept secret. In every medicinal plant there was an

essence or quintessence, small in quantity, but in which

lay the whole therapeutic virtues of the plant. Extract

that, and there remained so much hay and shavings or

saw-dust. You had washed the sands of a gold liver ;

the grains of gold were few in number, but you had

them all ; the sand retained no trace of metal.

     By distillation ; by treatment with an alkali ; by

treatment with an acid ; by crystallization ; by one or

all of these processes, or by others, the essential oil, or

alkaloid, or acid, or neutral principle, on which the

medicinal powers of each plant depended, was extracted

and purified. New tonics, narcotics, anti-spasmodics,

anaesthetics, and the like, were presented to the phy

sician in forms so pure and concentrated, that of many

a single drop, or the fraction of a grain, was an ample,

nay, a perilous dose.  The scientific pharmaceutical

chemist, however, did not stop here. He put the ques

tion to himself; might not some of these potent mor

phias, strychnias, quinias, which as yet we can procure

only by extracting them from plants in which they occur

ready formed, be produced artificially ? What, for ex

ample, if we could manufacture that precious febrifuge,

quinine, from some of the comparatively cheap sub

stances resembling it in composition, instead of obtain
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  129

ing it at great cost and labour from the bark of foreign

trees brought across the seas ?
      The possibility of achieving this was no vain imagi

nation. Already we could produce, from inorganic
ingredients, the prussic acid which renders the bitter
almond and the laurel leaf poisonous, and supply it
pure and concentrated in any quantity. We could from

similar ingredients produce substances as complex as

quinine, and resembling it in many properties. There
was here a still more exciting and attractive prospect

than that which the extraction of ready-formed quint
essences furnished. How vastly enhanced must the re

sources of the healing art become, when the chemist
could produce morphia without help from the poppy,
and strychnia without having recourse to nux vomica !

In the quarter century that has passed since these hopes
were first awakened in the Edinburgh students of 1830,
they have been unexpectedly fulfilled. Now that we

can produce artificially, and from waste and even noisome
materials, the ethereal liquids to which the fragrance of
the pear, the pine-apple, and the melon are due ; and
can manufacture " spirits of wine" from coal gas and
oil of vitriol, we can scarcely be over sanguine as to what

we shall yet effect, as competitors with living organisms,
in the production of certain compounds.

      This, however, was not all. Besides extracting the
quintessences which Nature had so diligently hidden and
diluted through the mass of each medicinal plant, as well

as infringing, or, as it were, breaking Nature's patent for
manufacturing them, might it not be possible to produce

compounds which, though no plant yielded them, and for

                                      I
130  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IV.

manufacturing them none guarded a secret or claimed
a patent, were nevertheless as powerful in their action
as any natural acid, alkaloid, or oil ? In reality the
question had been practically answered for centuries.
For what were alcohol, sulphuric ether, or acetic acid,

but artificial organic compounds, produced, at least at

second-hand, without the help of organisms ? In this

direction, however, we had hitherto done very little.
Nearly all our mineral medicines, and especially the most
potent ones, were, hike the preparations of lead, antimony,
mercury, and arsenic, products of the laboratory, but the
reverse was the case with the remedies derived from the
vegetable and animal kingdoms. Now it became appa
rent from the triumphs of the purely scientific chemist,
that the manufacture of organic compounds was a much
more easy process than we had imagined, and that we
could not fail to produce novel substances possessed of
the most energetic physiological action. Chloroform, in
the meanwhile, is by far the most striking example of this
that can be referred to. Those, however, who are fami

liar with the remarkable properties of the novel so-called
organic metals, containing arsenic, antimony, and tin ;
of the similar compounds containing phosphorus ; of the
new ammonia-bases and related bases ; and of the end
less " substitution " compounds, every day swelling the

list of organic bodies, --will not doubt that there are as

many new medicines as there arc new groups of chemical

combinations.

     All this was dawning on us in the 1830 decade,
filling us with boundless hope. The spirit of the al
chemists was in us, but we had realized that it was not
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.                           131

an elixir of life, but an elixir of health that we had to

seek. Death we cannot vanquish, but suffering we may.
Many a sharp skirmish there must be with pain ; and
with " all the drowsy syrups of the world," and all the
anaesthetic Lethes, we must, at every cost, "steep the
senses in forgetfulness." But our ideal man is not a
dreamy, painless, lotos-eater, but a stalwart athlete, who
can endure hardness, and whom we would help to the
possession and conservation of a sound mind in a sound

body. Die he shall, but whilst he lives we shall try, by
wisely chosen food, and drink, and medicine, to make his
life long, and his labours abundant ; and his death shall
be the peaceful lying down to slumber of the healthfully
tired child, before whom there is the prospect of a bliss
ful morn and a happy awaking.

       The most practical, nominally, of all the branches

of Medicine, namely Practice of Physic, was not less

characterized at this period than its sister sciences and
Ifarts, by a new weapon and index of progress.
                                                Bio

logical Science had its later development sufficiently

indicated by the one instrument, the microscope, and

Chemistry its later development sufficiently indicated

by the one instrument, the combustion-tube, Practice of

Physic had laid its hand on the stethoscope, invented

by the ingenious French physicians, and in two or three

years could train the novice to distinguish diseases of

the chest with an accuracy and rapidity, such as the

experience of forty years had often failed to bring to

the unweaponed physician.

    In 1832, the stethoscope was still upon trial. The
132    MEMOIR OF                                  CHAP. IV.

general public had scarcely heard of it. When ladies
chanced in church to notice it stretched for convenience

of stowage within the hat of some doctor, they set it

down as a hat-stretcher, and its possessor as a fop.
IWhen
       entered the Infirmary in 1833, the younger

physicians were still shaking great bottles partially filled

with different liquids, to ascertain the cause of those

murmurs and ominous rattles which the stethoscope,

when applied to the chest, reveals and bids us interpret.

This was a rational and instructive proceeding, to which,

among other things, we are indebted for the skill which

has characterized the Edinburgh stethoscopists ; but it

was followed only by the younger or middle-aged men.

The seniors, suddenly called upon to train their ears,

dulled by time, to the discrimination of an apparent

wilderness of sounds, shook their heads and stood silent

aloof. Here and there, one or two bolder than their

brethren mocked at the novel instrument. Conspicuous

among these was the late Dr. James Hamilton, prede
cessor in the Edinburgh Chair of Obstetrics of the

introducer of chloroform, -- a sagacious, skilful physician,

witty withal, and in many respects accomplished.

     The stethoscope of his day was a cylinder of mahogany,

a foot and a half long, with a canal running down the

centre in the direction of its length. Afterwards, this

somewhat unwieldy instrument was replaced by the short

narrow tube, resembling a small clarionet without side

holes, and with a flat ear-piece, which is now in use, and

was readily enough mistaken for a hat-stretcher when seen

inside a hat. Dr. Hamilton used yearly to amuse him

self, and still more his class, by producing a stethoscope
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.                   133

as big as a pastry-cook's rolling-pin, and observing with
mock gravity, rapidly changing into sarcastic laughter,
" that some gentlemen professed to be able to hear
through a stick ;" the stick thus judged was thereafter
derisively flung on the lecture-table.

    It is difficult to believe that such a judgment was,

less than thirty years ago, pronounced ex cathedra on

Ithe stethoscope. That it was, is the best proof can

offer of the swift change which was passing over even
those departments of Medicine which are supposed to

gain only by many successive experimental additions.

    It is years already, since, putting aside purely medical

circles, the thoroughly practical managers of our life
insurance offices, desirous to enrol those only for whom

longevity might reasonably be anticipated, realized what
assistance the stethoscope could render them in weeding
out the bad lives from the good. Every day, in the
hands of those skilled in its use, it detects not only the

wilful, but also the unintentional deceiver, whose heart

or lungs have not yet revealed to himself the frailty
which they could not conceal from the physician's in

quisitorial ear.                  with  any of its more
                                  more  agreeable to un
    I will not connect Surgery

positive instruments. It will be

professional readers to think of it in connexion with one

of its least appalling armamenta, namely, the anaesthetic

inhaler, which, reversing the usual law of development

in machines, has passed from great complexity into

nothing more elaborate than the fold of a handkerchief

or the corner of a towel.

       Anaesthesia, as now brought about by surgeons, had
134                     MEMOIR OF          CHAP. IV.

not been dreamed of in 1833, nor is its induction strictly

speaking an act of surgery, but a preparation for one.

The Hospital, also, rather than the University, is the

proper arena of the surgeon. It may suffice, therefore,

to say, that the fame of the Edinburgh surgeons had

never been higher than when Edward Forbes began his

medical studies there. An entirely new Surgical Hospital

had just been completed, where students, from all parts

of the world, witnessed men like Listen and Syme per

form operations unheard of before, such as only the
boldest and most skilful dare attempt, and only the

most experienced and sagacious could conduct to a suc
Icessful issue. On this point
                                   do not dilate ; but it

must not be forgotten that Surgery, no less than the

other branches of Medicine, was stirring with fresh

vigour during the whole period of Edward Forbes's

medical noviciate.                         I would dwell

     In concluding this prolonged sketch,  great scientific
emphatically on two points -- 1st, The

revolution which in less than thirty years has come over

the medical studies of Edinburgh, was not owing to

Edinburgh having been behind the other medical schools

of the country twenty-five years ago. On the other

Ihand, am not afraid to say, that no British school had

precedence of her in either the science or the practice of

Medicine. 2d, This revolution proceeded at Edinburgh

with a silent, unobserved, continuous rapidity, because

the old did not hinder;        and the young did not pre

cipitate it.              it,

     There was abundance of rivalry, and no want of the

odium medicuni but the scientific strifes and profes
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  135

sional rivalries were almost entirely between peers and
equals, not between seniors and juniors. The seniors
often furnished little encouragement, and the juniors
often presumed too much, but both gave and took, and
they succeeded in striking a happy mean.

     Nearly all the present Professors of Medicine in

Edinburgh were the favourite pupils or former assistants

of their predecessors, or of their senior professors. In

this relation Edward Forbes stood to Professor Jameson ;
John Goodsir to Professor Monro ; Professor Balfour to

Professor Graham ; Dr. Simpson to Professor Thomson ;
the present writer to Professor Christison. To this

friendly co-operation between the enthusiastic, specu
lative younger men, and their more cautious, critical
seniors, is greatly owing the unbroken and silent pro
gress which Physical Science underwent in Edinburgh

within quarter of a century. It was fortunate for

Edward Forbes that he entered its University when the

unceasing Athenian longing "for something new" was

about, like a green perennial, to show the fulness of its
vitality by bursting into flower.
CHAPTER V.

A YEA II OF STUDENT LIFE IN EDINBURGH.

     The Medical School of Edinburgh, of which Edward
Forbes now became a pupil, consisted of two dissimilar,
and, in some respects, antagonistic bodies. The one of

these was the University, more especially as represented
by the Professors who constituted its Medical Faculty.

The other, constituting as a whole the extra-academical
Medical School of the city, was composed of Fellows
of the Royal College of Surgeons and of the College
of Physicians, who availed themselves of a privilege of
Fellowship which entitled them to lecture publicly on
any branch of Medicine.1

     Avoiding all details which do not bear upon our
subject, it must be noticed that to the University l>e-
longed the privilege of conferring the degree of Doctor
of Medicine, and of educating for that degree ; besides

   i In addition to Fellows of the Col   am bound heartily to acknowledge.
                                         This concession implied, on their part,
leges, properly qualified persons, not
members of the medical profession, were  losing the comparatively large fees
allowed to lecture to students of Medi   which otherwise a chemist would have
                                         paid them to obtain, as Fellow, the right
cine on Natur.il Philosophy, and a simi  to lecture, whilst in addition they con
lar privilege was afterwards conceded    ferred on him the right to receive fees
to lecturers on Chemistry. As the first
teacher of Chemistry who profited by     from students, and accepted his tickets
this concession, I owe a debt of grati   and certificates as entitling their bearers
tude to the Koyal College of Surgeons    to examination for the diploma of the

of Edinburgh, which, even in passing, I  College.
1831.  MEMOIR OF EDWARD FORBES.  137

the right of educating for the title of Surgeon, which,
however, it could not confer. The College of Surgeons,
on the other hand, possessed the privilege of conferring
the diploma of Surgeon, and the extra-academical school
mainly supplied the instruction required by candidates
for that title. The University was thus a school for phy
sicians ; the extra-academical lecture-rooms a school for

surgeons. For Edward Forbes, who wished a physician's
degree, attendance on the University was imperative ;
but as he did not desire a surgeon's diploma, it was not
incumbent on him to attend any class beyond the
College walls. Like most students of his time, how
ever, he attended many of them.

      The title " Extra-Academical Medical School," did not

imply any association or corporation of united lecturers.

It was merely a collective term for all the teachers of

Medicine who were not professors, and whose lectures

did not qualify for the University medical degree. In

one respect the extra-academical teachers were rivals of

the University, which shared their privilege of educating
for the College of Surgeons' diploma, without dividing
with them the right of educating for the University

medical degree. In another respect they were rivals of
each other, for there was no limit to the number of

teachers, except that furnished by the Fellows of the
Colleges, so that on each branch of medical science there
were generally two lecturers ; on the more important

branches -- as Anatomy, Chemistry, and Surgery -- three ;

on the last, sometimes four. The explanation of this
lay mainly in the fact, that for a multitude of profes
sional purposes a surgical diploma was sufficient, and for
138              MEMOIR OP                                                CIIAP. V.

most public medical appointments was essential, whilst a

physician's degree was not.

     In 1831, accordingly, when the number of medical

schools throughout the country was very much smaller than
it is now, the Edinburgh Extra-Academical School was
large and nourishing. Men of great, though various, ability
were teaching the several medical sciences. On a single
subject the student had his choice of two, three, or four

lecturers ; and on subjects such as Anatomy and Surgery,

where prolonged attendance was required, nearly every

pupil enrolled himself in successive years under different

teachers. Edward 'Forbes followed the general example.

No letters of this date have reached me, but the note

book already referred to as chronicling his first London

journey, contains an obscurely dated cash-account of his

expenses during his first year in Edinburgh, which is
sufficiently precise on the matter before us. In the second

week of November, he takes out Dr. Knox's extra-

academical class of Anatomy, and within the University,

Dr. Hope's class of Chemistry, and Dr. Duncan's class of

Materia Medica.  One significant entry sums up these

doings :--

     COLLEGE AND PROFESSIONAL.

     Matriculation Fee,                                         £0 10
                                                                    11
     Museum Fee,                                                   35
     Dr. Knox's Lectures,                                          35
                                                                   48
           ,, Practical An ,                                        1 10
     Dr. Hone's Chemistry Class,                                   48
     Dr. Knox's text-books.                                         0 16
     Dr. Duncan's Materia Medica,                                  0 18
     Dr. Duncan's text book,
     Dr. Hope's ditto,                                         £20 0

                                                                          6i

   i The error in the summation occurs  nently characteristic  of Forbes's arith
in the original note-book, and is emi   metic.
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  139

     From this and similar entries it appears that, like

most medical students, he devoted the first winter to

Anatomy and Chemistry, and that, unlike most, he at
tended also Materia Medica, from which he could not

possibly profit at that stage of his studies, besides tak
ing out the ticket of admission to the Natural History
Museum, a proceeding which speaks for itself. Of his

Istudies in the Materia Medica know nothing ; but it

is certain that he devoted himself with great zeal to
Anatomy and Chemistry ; and that he made abundant
and most profitable use of the Museum ticket does not
demand formal proof. Medicine as a profession he by

and by abjured ; but even if his devotion to Zoology

had not made Anatomy a welcome study, he could not
have failed to listen with delight to such prelections as
the eloquent Dr. Knox was at this time delivering to a
crowded circle of delighted hearers. Long after, when
his old teacher had paid the penalty which his sneering,
satirical, Ishmaelitish spirit had long been provoking,
Edward Forbes reluctantly pointed out, that the neglect
and obscurity into which he had fallen were the fruits of
his own, not of others' misdoings. But no one would have
been more forward than he to acknowledge that, with
all his faults, Dr. Knox was a man of genius, the sub
tlety, suggestiveness, and ingenuity of whose anatomical
and physiological speculations were peculiarly fitted to
attract and fix the attention of students whose intel

lectual sympathies were large and free. To Edward
himself, moreover, the daring wit and humour, and the
unsparing satire of the lecturer, were additional causes
of interest in him. We cannot wonder then, that not
140                                     MEMOIR OF        CHAP. V.

content with attending the lectures of Dr. Knox, which

were enough in the way of Anatomy for a beginner, he
also joined his practical class, which implied the direct
handling of the dead body in the dissecting-room.

      Chemistry could not fail to be interesting to one

who was an eager student of mineralogy. In after life

Edward Forbes did not receive credit for the interest

he took in this science. But it is quite certain that it
delighted him from the first, and the number of chemists

whom he counted among his most intimate friends

showed that the interest remained to the last. In recur

ring to his student days, he repeatedly mentioned to Mrs.
Forbes, who was my informant on the matter, that few

things had vexed him more than his absence, through

indisposition, from Dr. Hope's class on a day when the
roll was called. He was marked absent, and nothing

would induce the Professor, who was by no means ac
commodating to students, to qualify the entry. To a

friend1 also, who has recorded the fact, he mentioned that
" he had gone through a practical course of Chemistry
with a fellow-student, employing apparatus bought with

their common funds. At the conclusion he hesitated

whether to take up Chemistry or Natural History as his

prominent pursuit, and, agreeing to refer the matter to
chance, they ' tossed up' for the apparatus, and the ad

verse throw by which he lost the chemicals confirmed
him in adhering to the latter science." His good genius
certainly presided over this " toss up," for he never would
have achieved in Chemistry what he effected in Natural

   >  F"ruEsedtw'sardMaFgoarzbinees.,"  January 1855;    misinformed, his former colleague at the
Art.                                      The writer of  Museum of Economic Geology, Professor
this pleasing sketch was, if I am not                    Warrington Smyth.
1831-32  EDWARD FORBES.  141

History, but the incident shows how loving a disciple of

the former science he was.

     In the studies thus named, the first winter passed
away ; but it will be convenient to trace them formally

onwards to the close of the summer which completed the
session, before considering the spirit in which they were
pursued, and the fruits which they yielded.

     Our chief guide in this inquiry is the " cash account"
for the first nine months spent in Edinburgh, which is
kept with great regularity, but with equal conciseness
and brevity. As in London, we have neither year nor
month ; but the dates of the latter are given, and the
initials of the days of the week. We are curiously
helped also, in keeping the chronicle of the weeks

square, by the Sunday always appearing as thus,

"S. 4. -- Church, £0 0 6," which signifies that on

Sunday, 4th December 1831, Edward Forbes put, as
they phrase it in Scotland, sixpence into the plate at the
church-door, or as some may better understand con
tributed that sum to the offertory. Similar entries,
varied only by the sum occasionally rising to shilling,
occur throughout the account, and mark how regular
church-goer the writer then was.

      Following this guide, we find that on the 13th of
December he joins the Physical Society. The next day
he purchases hammer and a botanical box. The day
after he acquires certain " chemical instruments," and
two days later his hand again in his pocket to purchase
" minerals." These outlays seem to have contented him
for time, but in January (1832) he returns to the
purchase of minerals, " Jameson's Mineralogy," " chenii
a
                a

                                is
                                                                           a
                                                                         it,

                                                                                           a
142                           MEMOIR OF                                                    CHAP. V.

cals," and " instruments," which were probably chemicalis aa
                                                             a
apparatus. In the middle of February (16th), we come
again upon a purchase of instruments, but this time they                  a it,
                                                                                                a
were plainly anatomical dissective knives, for the next

entry runs, "W. 17. --Leg, £2 0 0 ;" so that he has

paid £2 for the lower limb of a subject, and we are to
suppose him busy at intervals dissecting under the
superintendence of Dr. Knox, whose rooms (now demo

lished) are in Surgeon Square. It does not, however,

engross his attention, for on the 20th he purchases
"spood," or botanical spade, and on the 25th, "shells."
In March he makes further purchases in minerals, ac
quires " painting materials," makes journey to Roslin,
and procures another botanical box. April witnesses
additional outlay on shells, the purchase of geological
bag, and journey to Peebles, which followed the close
of the winter session.

     May fitly inaugurated by dredging expedition,
and thereafter he enters formally on the study of Natural
History, as the following entry on the 9th of the month,
which, appears, was a Wednesday, shows :--
     it

     W. 9.-- Graham,  .       .  .                                  £4               8 <J  0000 0
                              .                .
                                                                           12
         ·lameson,                                       . 10                30 0 4
                                                         .
         Books-- llichard,       ·.
                     Hooker,     ..

         Reid,        .                                                              3

                                                                                                                      £132
                                                                                           0
He thus joined the University class of Botany under
Professor Graham, and that of Natural History under
Professor Jameson. The last entry doubtless refers to
his attendance on Dr. D. B. Reid's class of Practical
Chemistry, taught beyond the University halls. He pur
1832.  EDWARD FORBES.  143

chases, it will be observed, two text-books on Botany,
but he has no occasion to purchase any on Natural

History.
      From this time the cash-account is kept less regu

larly, and it stops abruptly on the 1st June. The only
entries of any interest are Is. Id. for a " dredge," and 2s.

Ifor " insects." Once for all, may state that the ordinary

references of this Journal are to household expenses, and
the smaller charges of everyday life.

    I have been thus minute because of no later year

have we so full a record, imperfect though that given

Imay be, and am specially desirous that the reader

should have the means of forming his own estimate of
the character of Edward Forbes in his early years. We
are not left, however, to interpret this from materials so

inadequate as the meagre skeleton which the laconic
cash-account supplies. The voices of friends who knew
him in his student-days can clothe the skeleton for us,
and make it a breathing, living thing. Let us listen to
two of them. John Goodsir, the present distinguished
Professor of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh,
who, in virtue of similarity of genius and of tastes,
exerted a greater intellectual influence over Edward
Forbes than any other of his associates, was the first
friend he made in Edinburgh, as by a mournful coincid
ence he was the last to leave his death-bed, twenty-five

years later.

     Young Forbes, soon after his arrival in Edinburgh,
found his way into Dr. Knox's dissecting-room. The
usual crowd of students who haunted it were absent at

lecture, hospital, or elsewhere, and the living were repre
144  MEMOIR OF                                                             CHAP. V.

seuted only by Mr. Goodsir, who was busy in a corner,
as he tells me, dissecting a " head." The tall stranger
walked up to him ; they soon got into earnest conversa
tion, and found that they had many tastes in common.
The fascination which Forbes exerted over all he came

across did not fail on this occasion, and within a few

days Mr. Goodsir visited his new friend at his lodgings.
He had lost no time in exploring the neighbourhood.
Round the room were scattered the novel plants and
animals he had already encountered. The ledges of the
wainscot were covered with minerals, which could not
be accommodated on the table, littered as it was with
mss. and note-books. He had already climbed Arthur's
Seat, and been delighted by finding a kind of snail new
to him ; specimens of this were before him, which, with
a view to study their structure, he had boiled, the notion
of dissecting a raw snail being quite strange to him.
Mr. Goodsir interposed, advised the omission of boiling,
and gave the future great malacologist his first lesson in
dissecting mollusca.1 This tribe of animals, known to

  i I have often heard Forbes, who loved    half an inch in length, spindle-shaped

u joke against himself, laughingly refer    and spiral, with some ten whorls. The
to the episode of the boiled snails ; but
                                            name of the genus is taken from the
it marked an era in his knowledge as he
showed in many ways. The Rev. H.            clausium or valve which occupies the

Wardrop, who attended his lectures at       mouth or throat of the shell.
Edinburgh in 1854, tells me that when
he took his class to Arthur Seat in May     The characters of this genus of mol
of that year, he directed their special
attention to the snail in question, which   lusca   are  tHhaunsleyde:s--cri"beCdlautbiylia--Messshresl.l
belongs to the genus Clauailia. Dr.         Forbes  and
Spencer Cobbold, who also heard these
lectures, adds that Forbes frequently       spiral, produced elongato-fusiform, al

drew the outline of its shell on the black  most always semirostral ; aperture ellip

boanl before the class, as if it were a     tic or pear-shaped, always toothed and

favourite with him. The particular          closed in its throat by a testaceous, elas

species found on Arthur's Scat is, I be     tic,"  folded lamellarvalveorclausium. . . .
lieve, Clausiliu nigricans. It is scarcely         The shells of this genus are equally

                                            remarkable for the peculiarities of their

                                            shape, and for the curious opercular

                                            valve of their apertures. The majority
                                            of species are centralized in south-eastern
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.                                                                      145

naturalists as the pulmoniferous or lung-bearing mollusca,
were as great favourites with him as their congeners the
lungless sea slugs and molluscs on which he laboured so

much. A few years later he communicated to the British

Association a report on their distribution in Europe,1 and
the next year another still more elaborate report on their
range through the British Islands.* The lesson in snail-

dissecting, accordingly, we may be sure, had a growing
significance for Edward Forbes as the years went on,

and he became one of the greatest authorities regarding

Imollusca. He seems, as have indicated in a note, to

have entertained a peculiar regard for the clausilia, which
thousands have climbed Arthur's Seat without discover

ing, and most of whom, had it been put in their hands,
would have flung it away as an insignificant periwinkle.

            however, Edward Forbes was delighted to find
in the grave, gentle friend he had made, self-taught,
widely-accomplished, comparative anatomist, John Good-
sir was not less struck with the genius and accomplish
ments of the self-taught naturalist, who had so frankly
sought his acquaintance. Referring to this interview

and the friendship which followed, Mr. Goodsir says --
" When beginning his studies in Edinburgh in 1831,
Mr. Forbes had already made great advances in his

favourite scientific pursuits, and to these attainments he

added remarkable artistic powers, and literary acquire
ments of an extraordinary extent in one so young. . . .
He was pre-eminently naturalist. His attention had
       If,

                                                                            a

Europe."-.! History of British Mol  a                         Report lirit. Assoc. Tor 1838, sect,
lusca and their Sheila, by Profe*>nr
Edward Forbes and Sylvanus Hanley,                    » p. '112.                           1'.
B.A., vol. Iv. p. 110.
                                                             Ilepmt lint. Assoc. for 18W.

                                         127.

                                      K
146                          MEMOIR OK                                             CHAP. V.

never been exclusively directed to any one of the natu

ral sciences. He was equally a botanist, a zoologist, and

a geologist from first to last.'.1
     Another friend, the Eev. Dr. Campbell, now Princi

pal of the University of Aberdeen, who made his ac

quaintance at the Botanical Classroom, has kindly sent
me the accompanying sketch :--

    I" have a vivid remembrance of the occasion on

which Edward Forbes first fixed my attention. Dr.

Graham, the Professor of Botany, whose class we at

tended during the summer of 1832, was in the practice
of marking by numbers, certain of the British plants in

the garden, and requiring the students to discover and

report to him their names. When standing one day after

lecture with some class-fellows over a plant thus marked,

Inone of us being able to assign its name, heard a

voice call out over my shoulder, ' Oh ! that is Eupa-

toriub CaddabiduV [Bupatorium Cannabinum]. Our
surviving fellow-students will at once recognise by the

peculiar pronunciation and the ready answer, that the

speaker was Forbes. At that time he always spoke as

     *;                                                                            stuffed with

                 I
                          I

                                                     a
                                                                              is,

                                                                        a is
one does when the nose, as the phrase

cold and this peculiarity, although greatly modified by

time, was never, think, entirely got rid of.

     On turning round saw student, year or two

my junior in age, clad in an olive-coloured surtout, whose

tall, slightly-stooping figure, pale and somewhat sallow

complexion, and kindly, intelligent eye, had sometimes
arrested passing glance in the class-room. We entered
i
               a

                         p.
    Scotsman newspaper, Nov. 22, 1854. Annals and Magazine of Natural History,
January 1855, 51.
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  147

into conversation. I was greatly astonished at the ex

tent and variety of the studies of so young a man in

Natural History ; and when I found that his attain

ments had been the result of solitary investigation, under

the sole impulse of native genius and love of science, I

at once felt confident of his future eminence.

    " Our acquaintance grew steadily. I remember well
my first visit to his lodgings. I found him surrounded

by objects from all the realms of nature ; minerals and

rock-specimens ; algae and shells ; seeds undergoing all
kinds of treatment ; snails decapitated, yet living in the
hope of sprouting forth new heads ; and a frog or two
patiently ministering in some other way to the progress
of science ; while on the table at which he sat, amid

specimens of dried plants, lay manuscripts, landscapes,
portraits of natural objects, and caricatures, in pencil, in
ink, in sepia, in water-colours (besides one or two in oil
against the wall), a geological map and sections of his
native island, and a boyish travesty of the opening of
the Iliad, with reference to the Reform Bill, in which the

political leaders of the time figured in the places of the

IGreek chieftains. Of this, when Ientered the room,

think he had been engaged in making a corrected copy, of

which he read me a portion with great self-complacent
emphasis; but other matters calling for our attention, he
handed me the rough draught of the first hundred lines,

which I still find among my papers. The spirit of this

performance was, like its author at the time, intensely
Tory. As in my own case, and that of many of our con

temporaries, the ^discriminate abuse, the vulgar appeals
to popular passion, the coarse contempt of men and
148  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. V.

things identified in our minds with all the greatness of
our country, amid which the Reform Bill had been car
ried, had aroused in him a loathing dislike, a dread lest
all that was truly great and ennobling in literature and

science should be swept away by a barbarian irruption
of low utilitarianism. He never lost temper or gave
offence; but he never omitted an opportunity of ex
pressing his political sentiments. He smiled when, in
Jermyn Street, in 1851, after a separation of eighteen

Iyears, said that the Reform Bill had not stopped his

advance in science or in fame.
      " When 1 became acquainted with him, Forbes, al

though only eighteen years of age, had already acquired
a clear, systematic knowledge of Natural History in all
its branches, which was truly extraordinary. His powers
of abstraction and generalization, and of perceiving the
connexion between apparently isolated facts in remote
departments of nature, and widely separated regions of
the world, were astonishing in one so young. Every
new object he took up as an old acquaintance, and al
though it was plainly impossible that he could have seen

the object before, he rarely hesitated in naming correctly
what he saw, and never in assigning it its place in the

system. Notwithstanding the confused and desultory
manner in which he appeared to pursue his studies, and

even to arrange his collections, every phenomenon and

object ranged itself in its due order in the cabinet of his
mind. In new, and to him untrodden paths by sea and
by land, in mines and on mountain tops, he appeared
always to know what was to be found. He possessed
an advantage, which it is impossible to overrate, in his
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.                      149

wonderful talent for drawing with rapidity, accuracy,
and spirit, and with any materials, although always with

the happiest selection from the materials within his reach,

any object or scene which presented itself.
     " His humour showed best in the exercise of his

pencil, in which he might have disputed the palm with
Bewick. He was not witty in conversation, but would

at times break out into boyish hilarity and uproarious
fun, in which he would bawl out broadly comic and

grotesque verses of his own composition, without a par

ticle of tune, but with as great self-complacency as if he

were discoursing most eloquent music. His innocent,
guileless heart, in the intervals of deep thought, often
came gushing forth in a stream of high spirits.

     " His general reading was far more varied and ex

tensive than might be supposed, considering his amazing

progress in science. He understood and remembered

what he had read at school of the classics. His criti

cisms on poetry were often strikingly correct. Some
times, although very rarely, he fell for a short time into

a sentimental mood.
     " His chief moral excellencies were great candour

and reasonableness, great gentleness and love of peace.

He sought peace and ensued partly perhaps from con'

stitutional timidity and caution. He abhorred dissenA

                                      it,
sions. He put the best construction on all the words

and deeds of others. He seldom or never complained of

others, or found fault.  maxim often on his lips during

our intercourse was, Let every man do his own way,

as long as he does no harm to others.' He was totally

devoid of envy, jealousy, malice, or anger. Without
150  MEMOIR OF                         CHAP. V.

being actively benevolent, or indifferent to his own com
fort and success, yet no man could rejoice with a purer
joy than he did in the discoveries and in the growing
fame and prosperity of others."

      We are now in a condition to picture to ourselves

how Edward Forbes spent his first academic year. He

lodged at 6 Howe Street, one of the steep streets on the
north side of the New Town, leading towards the sea.

This lodging was conveniently situated half-way between
his favourite haunts, the Natural History Museum and

the Botanic Garden ; Arthur Seat, and the sea. A liberal

allowance from his father gave him command over all
the requisites for study, and after a fashion of his own

he was unsystematically economical.1 During the winter

months the forenoon was spent in attending lectures on

Anatomy, Chemistry, and Materia Medica ; the after
noon in studying the specimens in the Museums of the
University and the College of Surgeons ; in reading in
the Library of the University; but perhaps chiefly in

Dr. Knox's dissecting rooms. In summer, Botany, Natu

ral History, and Practical Chemistry, took the place of

the classes , named above. The Saturdays, all through
the year, were largely devoted to country strolls, and

as the season went on, to lengthened botanical excur
sions, insect hunting, field geology, and dredgings in the
Firth of Forth. He was better provided with introduc
tions to families in Edinburgh, than most stranger stu
dents are, and as he became a favourite, without fail, in

every circle to which he was introduced, he could always

   i This allowance amounted to about  sufficient for the wants of an Edinburgh
£120 per annum, a sum more than amply  stmlent.
1331.  EDWARD FORBES.  161

 secure relaxation in the evenings. Fond of society, he
 availed himself frequently of this privilege, and his love
 for dramatic representation took him occasionally to the
 Theatre ; but the great amount of work which he did

 during his first session, is sufficient proof that the great
 majority of his evenings were spent in study at home.
 We have already seen how regularly he attended church.

      Thus far our sketch is a mere generality which would
apply with little alteration to any well-disposed medical
student. The peculiarity in Forbes's case lay in the wide
and diversified field of study over which he ranged ; in
the almost exclusive preference which he showed to the
scientific, and especially the naturalistic, over the profes
sional blanches of medicine ; and in the unusual amount

of acquisition in Natural History Science, and trained
power of original investigation which characterized him
even at the threshold of his medical novitiate. The

proofs of this are abundant. It costs the ablest begin

ner a strenuous effort to follow with intellectual profit
such a curriculum of study as Forbes was now pursuing.
At a later period, no doubt, he deliberately neglected

Imedicine, but have the authority of Professor Goodsir

for stating that at this time he was a zealous and de

lighted student of Anatomy, and it is needless to adduce

evidence of his devotion to such subjects as Chemistry

and Botany, which he was professedly investigating on

Iaccount of their medical, not their intrinsic interest.

except Materia Medica, which, implying the application
of Anatomy, Chemistry, Botany, Physiology, Practice of
Physic, Surgery, and much else, to the maintenance of
health and the cure of disease, could not be appreciated
152  MEMOIR OF                                                                                                                                CHAP. V.

or in many respects understood by the most intelligent

medical novice. It was a mistake on Forbes's part to

take out such a class in his first year, but such a mis

take as a beginner readily makes. He gave the subject,

however, a certain amount of attention, if it were no

more than his bodily presence for some five hours each

week in the lecture-room, so that he burdened himself

with a class more than most first-year students of medi

cine attend. Here, then, was seemingly work enough,

but it did not content the energy of Forbes.

     Among the mss. which Mr. Goodsir saw crowding

the table of his lodgings, lay open what he described to
Ime as " a long foolscap note book."
                                                                                                      have it now before
me. It is marked on the board--" Edwardus Forbes,

Medicines Naturceque Studiosus in Academia Regia

Edinburgena Alumnus, Societatis Regies Physicce Socius,

etc. etc. 1831,"1 and is surmounted by the writer's be
loved three-legged symbol of his native land. On the

first page it is entitled, " Place-book from Novemb. 1831

to Novemb. 1835." It contains some references as late

as 1843, but the great majority are within the dates
given, and as the years in question include those formally

devoted by Edward Forbes to medicine, its contents

throw much light on his occupations during his medical

studies. The book under notice is a narrow foolscap
volume containing 180 pages, of which the greater part

refers to 1831-33. It is partly a Commonplace Book

r"epNi uadI tiauqtnuiouontqeueot,fh"tishsehtomitwleeinregftoitrhliesthopefre"elmismtpuihndaeatnircty  burgh. Some friend has improved the

of medicine," and because the reference                                                               Latin, replacing a  s(c!)o--redb-you"t   word-- ap
to the Physical Society appears to show                                                               parently studenlms                      studiosus,"
that the book was commenced in Edin
                                                                                                      awnodrdad"dinaglumanftuesr ."an altered vowel, the
1831.  EDWAUD FORBES.  153

for unannotated extracts, partly a record of original ob
servations, partly a depository of criticisms on the writ
ings of others, partly a series of memoranda of things
proposed to be done. There are many drawings of
Natural History objects, some of them coloured, and a
few fanciful sketches, but the last are less abundant

than in others of his note-books. The general impres
sion conveyed by a glance through the work is that its

writer was a person of great diligence, and very desultory
tastes, much given to literature and to Natural History,

but not particularly interested in medicine. It is dif

ficult to be certain about dates in the case of one so in-

veterately negligent in chronology as our author was,
but a reference to the contents and the first six pages
of the book, which certainly belong to the close of 1831,
and the earlier part of 1832, will throw some light on
his favourite studies.

      Resolved from the first to study literature and science

side by side, he has begun by ruling his pages down the
middle, and heading the left half-page or column, " Lite
rary," and the right " Scientific. " The date on the first
page is "December 1831." He gives up the double
column by and by, but to the end he keeps alternating
literary and scientific references. The earlier ones are all
extracts, varying from sentences or stanzas, to paragraphs
and entire poems. In literature we find, in the matter

 of poetry, pieces from Byron's Manfred ; Hogg's Queen
 Hyndc ; Stanzas to Music (from " Blackwood") ; Thom
 son's Seasons; Spenser's Faery Queen (many extracts) ;
 Wordsworth's Excursion (many extracts) ; Hindoo Poetry
 (translated in Quart. Review, 1831) ; Shakspere (chiefly
154                         MEMOIR OF        CHAP. V.

from Midsummer Night's Dream) ; Crabbe's Tales of the
Hall ; Southey's Curse of Kehama ; Swift on Poetry ;

Atherstone's Fall of Nineveh ; Zachary Boyd's Bible (this
extract is not in Forbes's handwriting) ; Butler's Hudi-

bras ; Moliere's Malade Imaginaire (Examination of
Candidate for Bachelorship of Physic) ;1 Cowper's Con

versation and Task ; Coleridge's Christabel, Genevieve,

Ancient Mariner, etc. ; Pope's Essay on Man ; Joseph

Walton's Ode to Fancy ; Ben Jonson ; Anacreon (in the
original, and as translated by Cowley) ; Dryden's Cymon

and Iphigenia ; Waller's Amoret ; Campbell's Muse of

Painting; Shelley; James Montgomery; Collins' Ode to

Liberty ; Gray. The poetical readings thus referred to
are in full accordance with those we have already seen

him pursuing in the Isle of Man. Among his papers,

Ialso, find a small separate volume entitled, " Book L of

Homer's Iliad, translated into English Verse by Edward

Forbes, 1831."

     In prose literature we have extracts from Schlegel's

Lectures ; Fleming's Philosophy of Zoology ; BufTon's

Natural History ; Dr. Chalmers ; Suetonius ; an Essay

on Universal Bedemption ; Abercrombie's Intellectual

Powers (many extracts), side by side with which are

quotations as numerous from Paris's Treatise on Diet ;

Phillips' Lectures on Painting ; Combe's Phrenology ;
Spurzheim's Phrenology ; Lord Jeffrey's Theory of

Beauty    ; (?)  Hooke Shaftesbury's Characteristics (many
                          ;
              ;              It
extracts) Dr. Mason Good's Errors in the Translation ofis
the Bible, in Life by Dr. 0. Gregory; Payne Knight's

An extract occurs here, dated 1833,          Bible, however, that the later extracts
a                                            belong to 1833.
   i

      it
but appears to be an interpolation on

page purposely left blank.             poa-
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  155

Principles of Taste; Burke on the Sublime and Beautiful;

Hutcheson as quoted by Burke ; Xenophon's Memora
bilia of Socrates (translated) ; Enfield's History of Philo

sophy.

     In the scientific column are quotations from Ure's

Geology ; Cuvier's Lectures ; Captain Irby and other
writers on the " Mustard Tree of Scripture ;" Smith's
Introduction to Botany ; a list of writers on Marine
Phosphorescence and Animal Electricity ; a list of
writers on the Deluge, etc., taken from Jameson's Jour
nal ; Dr. W. Gregory's Analysis of Dead Sea Water ;
Brongniart on the Primaeval Vegetation ; Sprengel and
Decandolle's Philosophy of Plants ; Wilford on Hindoo
Doctrine of Deluge of Deucalion ; Dimensions of Manx
Fossil Elk, Gervus megaceros (perhaps taken from his
own measurements of the specimen in the Edinburgh
Natural History Museum, which he figures in another

part of the book along with the specimen belonging to
the Royal Dublin Society) ; R. C. Taylor on British
Fossil Shells ; Bowditch on Memory and Instinct in
Animals ; Article in Phil. Mag. on Living Fibres (this
extract is dated 1833); Gordon on Analogy between
Structure and Functions of Plants and Animals.

     After this comes, all under date 1831, " a List of

the Esculent Fungi found in Great Britain, from Dr.
Greville's Paper in the Wernerian Society's Transactions;"
a " Systema Naturae," illustrated and seemingly original ;
" Notes on Comparative Anatomy, from Cuvier's Lec
tures." Besides these are several entries out of order,

but dated 1831 or 1832, such as, under the former year,
a whole page occupied by a copy (from Mr. Combe's work)
156  MEMOIR OF                                                           CHAP. V.

     a
        is

                     a

                                                      it

                                                                          a
                                                                                  a
                                                                                     it,
of a head, with the phrenological organs marked on
and numbered list of their names. This supplies the

materials for very curious estimate by Forbes of his

own character, drawn up in 1835.

    It needless to repeat that the extracts given are

proofs of great though desultory diligence. They are

not more numerous or more diversified than such as

would be found in the note-books of many clever

literary student, but in judging of them                                 must be re

membered that Forbes was the opposite of literary or

scientific recluse. He had nothing in him of the Heluo

Libronim. Books were useful to him, but not indis

pensable to his comfort. He was impatient of confine

ment and protracted reading. When alone within doors,

Natural History specimen, pencil, or microscope was
a
                                         a

                                                  a
                                                                      a
as often in his hand as book, whether professedly work
ing or resting. Out of doors his happiest days were

spent in botanizing, geologizing, dredging, or sketching.

When the season of the year or the weather rendered

these occupations impossible, museums, picture-galleries,

meetings of scientific societies, public exhibitions, dra

matic representations, concerts, and social parties had

great attractions for him and verse-making was

favourite occupation at all times and places. It mar

vellous, accordingly, that even in his first medical session,
     a
        a

                       a;
                                                               is
                                                                         a
when he was more recluse than in later years, he should

have read so much in works lying, many of them, outside

the circle of his formal professional studies. It would

excite no suiprise to find richer Commonplace Book

in the hands of student of law or theology, but few

naturalists, and still fewer students of medicine, would
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  157

be found quoting in their memoranda such works as

Forbes delighted to peruse.
     With all his catholicity of intellectual taste, however,

he did not take kindly to the purely medical departments
of medicine. The evidence of the Note Book on this
point is solely negative, and had we only it to guide us,
we could not safely draw any very decided conclusion.
Nevertheless its silence is significant ; for the Note
Book, in common with the multitudinous others kept by
its author, was, after a few pages had been consecrated
to a special purpose, practically regarded as a desk full
of pigeon-holes, into one of which was thrust whatever
thought of others or his own, written or reducible to
writing, happened to interest him. We hunt in vain,
however, through the deposits of some four years for
any reference to medicine more precise than such extracts
from Paris on Diet, as :-- " Weddcr mutton perfect at

five years ; ewe mutton best at two years. . . . Sydenham
always took a glass of small-beer at his meals, and he
considered it as a preservative against gravel." On the

other hand, if we dive at random into the book, we find

lengthened and elaborate abstracts of papers on Natural
History, occupying many of them a number of pages,
and not a few illustrated by a long series of drawings.
Such are some conchological anomalies, noticed by Gray ;
European Diptera, by Meyer, with pen-and-ink draw
ings of the typical insects ; Carl Pfeiffer's " Land-und-
Wasser Schnecken," with numerous coloured drawings of

the more interesting shells ; " A view of the Classifica

tion of Molluscous Animals, by Baron Cuvier ;" " Ma
terials towards a Conchology of the Irish Seas," with
158                        MEMOIR OF                            CHAP. V.

extracts from papers by Broderip and Sowerby ; " Suc

cession of Secondary Rocks, from Cuvier's Essay," with
two pages of illustrative drawings ; " Leach's Arrange
ment of the Cirrhipedes;" " Additions to the British

Fauna," from various authorities, etc. etc. etc.

     In making these full extracts or quotations he was

only carrying out a scheme begun long before. One of
them (dated 1831) is entitled, " Notes on British Botany
from the English Flora, forming an appendix to my

Nat. Hist., Div. British Botany."
     The " Natural History" thus referred to is a small MS.

quarto, marked on the fly-leaf "Vol. 1. Compiled and
Transcribed during the years 1828-1829, 30-31." It

was thus begun in the Isle of Man when he was thirteen,

and probably completed in Edinburgh when he was

sixteen.  It consists of above a hundred pages, and

is divided into six sections :--

   I. Botany according to the Linnaean System.                  etc.,  with  an

 If. Mineralogy according to Professors Mohs and Jameson.
III. Geognosy according to [authority not given].
IV. Organic Remains according to Linnsetis, Cuvier, Parkinson,

          Appendix containing a Table of British Fossil Shells, from Parkinson,

          with additions.

 V. Conchology according to Fleming.
VI. Zoophytes.

These sections are drawn up in the form of tabulated
columns, with headings and detailed indices. The Bo
tanical Section is the fullest, and to judge from the
boyish handwriting, as well as from its place, it is the
earliest, but the book has in part at least been written

on separate leaves, afterwards bound together, and these
may be of different dates. This division is largely illus
trated by coloured drawings of a very rude sort, but with
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  169

wonderful character about them, and unmistakable as

likenesses of the plants they depict. The British fossil

shells are also illustrated by graphic pen-and-ink sketches,
and the book otherwise is remarkable, like that just
described, for the total absence of those fanciful designs

with which the compiler generally covered the margins,
and sometimes filled the pages, of his MS. volumes.

     The absence of such pictorial fancies, the careful
classification, and the elaborate indices, all show that
the book was not compiled as a pastime, still less as a

task. It was plainly intended for use, and must have

been a work of great labour and patience, which only
conviction of its utility could have induced an indulged
boy to begin, and an eager youth to finish. Edward
Forbes, indeed, brought to Edinburgh a much greater
stock of learning in Natural History than the great
majority of its medical graduates, after four years' study
at its University, carry away with them.

     Nor, as implied already, was it only, or even chiefly,
book learning in Science* that he brought to Edinburgh.
The faithfulness of his roughest portraits of plants and
shells, the naturalness of his colouring, and the rapidity
with which he pounced upon the novelties of a strange
Flora and Fauna, show how effectual his unmethodical

Manx self-culture had been in training his eye and hand
to exact observation and execution. His note-book con

tains an alphabetical list of the Land and Freshwater
Shells around Edinburgh, dated at the close, 1833. But
many of the materials were gathered in 1832, beginning
with the Clausilia in 1831. In this list he gives the
habitat of the animals, and those which are noted on his
160                 MEMOIR OF  CHAP. V.

own authority show how widely ho had traversed the dis

trict, and made himself familiar with its Fauna. It was

impossible that in a year so largely devoted to the acqui

sition of knowledge, he could give many proofs of his
powers as an original thinker. Within about a month,

however, of joining (Jan. 24, 1832) the Physical Society,
he read a " Notice of Experiments on Animals of the
genus Lymnea," which is embodied in full in the " Place
Book." One of the species of this genus of freshwater
shells, Lymnea putris, " abounds," as he states, " in the

ditches and pools around Edinburgh." A paper which

he heard read at a meeting of the Society, led him the

day after becoming a member (Dec. 14, 1831), to ex
periment upon and he details in his own communica
is

   Aa

                         is it,
                               it,

                                  it

                                                             a
                                                                                                 ;"
tion series of sagacious observations on the effect of

water, of carbonic acid, and of exclusion of air on the

vitality of these creatures.

     This notice remarkable for simplicity and con

ciseness of style, rare in authors of eighteen. Logical

precision pervades  and ends with the modest com
mentary that " the foregoing experiments are simple, and

of no great importance."
         far stronger proof, however, of his original power

   to be found in the character of the books which he

studied, as read in the light of his subsequent Researches.
He was at this time, as was said of Sir Walter Scott,
when gathering his Border Ballads, " making himself
and his abounding references to plants and to shells
were plainly the early gropings in the dark, and instinc
tive glimpses of the quarter whence light would dawn,

which by and by led to his deliberate and authoritative
1832.  EDWARD FORBES.                          161

statements on the Geographical Distribution of Plants,

and the laws which determine the development of life in

the abysses of the sea.

     In such occupations, Edward Forbes spent the first
year of his student life in Edinburgh. To him it was
not as to Tennyson, "the grey metropolis of the North,"

but a city which recalled the pictures of Turner and

Claude. When, twenty-five years later, on the threshold
of his brief Professorial life in Edinburgh, he reviewed his
student days, he exalted that city as a great school for

naturalists, not only because of its teachers, but because of
its University Museum, the rich Flora and Fauna of its

neighbourhood, and "the scenes of unrivalled beauty"
amidst which it was placed. In his Inaugural Lecture,
after commenting on " the untiring energy, watchfulness,
earnestness, and devotion to science, of" Professor Jame
son, as shown in the " admirable and extensive collection of
specimens" which he had collected, he continues :-- " But

here we have not only an excellent Museum at hand ;
Ifthere is a still greater one all around us.
                                               any one

spot on earth is peculiarly adapted for the study of

Natural History it is this-- the district in whose centre

we are now assembled. Everywhere about us are abun

dant and admirable illustrations of Zoology, Botany, and

Geology. Of its excellent and well-explored Flora, I

leave my eminent colleague and old friend, the Pro
fessor of Botany, to speak. Amid the rich materials of

Iits Fauna learned some of my earliest and best zoological

lessons. To dredge the Firth of Forth under the guid

ance of shrewd, strong-handed, and strong-armed New-

haven fishermen, was an early ambition of mine, and one

       L
162  MEMOIR OP                           CIIAI\ V.

Inever too often gratified.  know the riches of the liv

ing treasures that lie in its submarine deeps, and along
Iits shores ; and though, since the time ventured to
Iprint notices of these embryo efforts,
                                         have explored

most parts of the British Isles, and our seas far out, and

foreign seas and estuaries, famous for their productions,

I have not found any marine region with a population

more varied within its limits, and better fitted to illus

trate effectively the subjects of a naturalist's studies.
Even on land and in the air there is an ample supply of
species, quite enough to furnish the student with abund
ant means of testing the systematic characters taught in

the class-room.
      " As to Geology, where can there be a better district

for practising the student in field-observation ? The

leading phenomena of rock masses are brought almost

to the door of our class-rooms  The variety and

beauty of the mineral contents of the igneous rocks
round Edinburgh have long been famous, and have im
bued every geologist, who received his early training in
this University, with a respect for mineralogical evidence,
and a habit of readily perceiving and using mineral cha

racters -- a great advantage.

      " The tastes of most men can be traced back to the

habits of their youth, and these habits are, in a great

measure, moulded by the circumstances, physical as well

as intellectual, amid which that youth has been passed.

Grand scenery suggests grand thoughts, and every en
nobling thought elevates, not merely momentarily but

permanently, the mind in which it flows. It is a great

gain to a University to be placed like this amid scenes
1832.                 EDWARD FORBES.             163

of unrivalled beauty. The youth whose hours of relaxa
tion are spent in the presence of these magnificent pro
spects, so rife and many around us, carries with him in

after life the memory of their beauty^and grandeur. . . .
And with all this precious accumulation of the vast
       if,

                          if
and beautiful, there be combined that which admir

able in the minute -- Nature in her smallest elements
                                                 it is
be prolific in objects of study and reflection,  not
                                                      is
                                                               a
to be wondered at that this University has been
hot-bed of naturalists, and that their philosophy has
been one catholic in essence and far-extending in its

range. ..

     So passed with Edward Forbes his first academic
year, one of the happiest of his whole life. The dew
of his youth was still upon him. The corrupting breath
of the world had not tainted his freshness, or its cold

touch chilled him. His eager eyes looked forth ona
rich and boundless future. Young men of genius and

tastes like his own had become his attached friends.

Seniors of the highest repute welcomed him as a pupil.
Libraries and museums of the greatest value were open
to him daily. His shortest walks were through the

astreets of city which delighted his artist eye, and hada
                  aastrange fascination for him. His longer excursions

carried him quickly into district which was for him,

to borrow thought of his own, like the Garden of
Eden to Adam, "a paradise filled with creatures yet to
be named." The session fleeted rapidly away, and in

i     Inaugural Lecture by Professor Ed  Edinburgh Monthly Medical Journal,
ward Forbes, delivered May 15, 1854. --  June 1854.
164  MEMOIR OF EDWARD FORBES.  CHAP. V.

the pleasant month of August, when Douglas Bay is
calmest and clearest, he was welcomed back to the Isle
of Man.
                      CHAPTER VI.

ABANDONMENT OF MEDICINE AS A PROFESSION -- ADOPTION

     OF NATURAL HISTORY AS A PERMANENT VOCATION.

     Dulce est desvpexe in loco was not one of the guiding
mottos of Edward Forbes.* Much as he admired the
vigorous good sense and gentle earnestness of the poet
Cowpcr, he never would have joined with him in saying

"I sing the Sofa." To stretch the subject of Gray's

Elegy on the greensward, and " muse upon the stream
that babbled by" was not an occupation to his taste ;
neither would he have cared for the Elysium which the
poet himself found, in lying on a half-completed hay
rick gazing at the blue sky, or in reclining among soft
cushions reading a romance. He talked of these things
as the possible resources of his old age, but would not

have recourse to them in his active youth. When I

once expressed my surprise at learning from him that
he had read very few of Sir Walter Scott's Novels, he
gravely replied, that he reserved them for a solace in
case he should become blind ! The only expression of
sympathy on his part with day-dreaming and such Lotos-
eating idleness as befits the intellectual Castle of In

Idolence, which can recall, was uttered in the midst of
a party of us, all but himself smoking : " I wish," said
166      MEMOIR OF                                  CHAP. VI.

"Ihe, could smoke, for smokers have such placid faces."

    however, he envied smokers, his envy was of very
innocent kind. He belonged to the class of energetic
spirits, to whom, except when asleep, change of labour

   more welcome as recreation than absolute rest. So
untiring indeed was the activity of his waking hours,
that sleep often would not come when sought for, and

     often happened, during his earlier student years,
that nightmare dreams, of which he always spoke
with great horror, revenged upon him his inordinate
it is If,

                                       a
                                                                                                    a

energy.

     When he returned, accordingly, to the Isle of Man,

he spent the three Autumn months of 1832 in diligent

work. We do not hear anything of Anatomy or Chemis

try, or of preparation for the prospective medical studies

of the coming winter. Nor indeed  there detailed
                                  a is
record of any of his doings, but the entries in his notea

book sufficiently show how hard he laboured at Natural

History. He brought back from Edinburgh greatly en
larged views of Natural History, and greatly increased

acquaintance with its recorded facts. But the Univer

sity served him most by teaching him the art of                                                        in

vestigating the science which hitherto he had pursueda

in his own solitary, desultory way. The comparativea
anatomists furnished him with many positive con
trivance for revealing structure, besides the negative one
of not boiling mollusca. He was initiated into all the
devices of the botanists for discovering, dissecting, pre
serving, and cultivating rare plants. Professor Jameson,

  great artist in mineralogy, communicated to him the
methods which he had learned from Werner, and had
1822.  EDWARD FORBES.                                                       167

himself improved, for the examination of rocks and

minerals, and from him, too, he had received prac
tical lessons in geology, as it was studied in the open
field by the fathers of the science.

      Furnished thus with a knowledge of the means by
which great naturalists had taught themselves and others
how to observe Nature, he discovered new riches every

day in the territory of Man.
     There can be little doubt that already he had formed

the resolution, referred to in a letter to the Rev. J. Cum-

ming, to write a work on the entire Natural History of

the Isle of Man, including some reference to its civil
history, and a full account of its abounding antiquities.

     In the end he partially carried out this intention.

The Malacohgia Monensis, a Catalogue of the Manx
Mollusca, was published at Edinburgh in 1838. In 1848,

he contributed to Mr. Cumming's work,1 Notes on the

Flora of the Isle of Man, and he supplied to the later
editions of Quiggin's Guide to the Isle of Man a chapter
on its Natural History, in which the Zoology, Entomo

logy, Conchology, Botany, and Geology are successively
treated, but all with great brevity.

       The observations on which these communications

were founded were continued for many years. They

were begun, indeed, before he first visited London, and

carried on at intervals till he returned to
       a                                                                    but they

                  I

                                                 i
                                                                       12,

                                                                      it,
were not probably systematically commenced till 1832.

Under that year find explicit entries, to the extent of

several pages, in reference to birds, Bhells, and insects,
with formal list of the first, and drawings of the two

       Ante, p. note.
168  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. VI.

last. There is an undated Catalogue of Manx Shells,
containing 196 names, followed by a similar list of Manx
Plants, enumerating 383 ; and apparently unfinished
lists of Crustacea, Arachnida, Radiata, etc. There are
also under 1832, Notes on the Geology of the Island,
written at some length, and including a reference to cer
tain Manx antiquities.

      He did not live to achieve a complete account of
the Isle of Man, but the uncompleted investigations which
he made in reference to its physical features, and espe
cially his dredgings along its coasts, furnished the start
ing-point for some of the widest generalizations with
which he enriched the whole science of Natural History.
Thus the doctrine of Specific Centres of Distribution of

Plants and Animals, if not suggested to him, was at least

in his apprehension strikingly illustrated and confirmed
by the characters of the Fauna and Flora of his native

island, as compared with those of Great Britain and
France on the one hand, and of Ireland on the other.

To take an example which has long been of popular
and even superstitious interest ; the absence of poisonous
reptiles from Ireland and from the Isle of Man, was

explicable on the hypothesis that they originated on
the Continent, and, spreading from their centre of birth
there, reached England in the course of their western
divergence, when Great Britain formed part of the now
adjacent mainland. Before, however, they had travelled
to Ireland or even to Man, these had become islands,

and could no longer be reached. On the other hand,

the Great Elk (Cervus megaceros), whose bones are

found both in Ireland and Man, may be assumed to
1832.  EDWARD FORBES.  169

have crossed from Europe to both at a time when the
Irish Sea and the British Channel were occupied by

land, which has since disappeared.
     His doctrine, also, of zones of submarine life dif

fering in character according to the depth of the sea in
which they showed themselves, has been referred to by
writers as first adopted by him in the Mediterranean,

but it is quite certain that it had dawned upon hini

during these early dredgings along his native shores,
and it was reduced to writing years before he visited the

Mgean.
     In November 1832, he returned to Edinburgh to

enter on his second session of medical study, and a
struggle began between the claims on his time of Na

tural History and Medicine, in which it is hardly neces

sary to say that the former prevailed. The struggle

did not end till 1836, when medicine was formally and
finally abandoned, and it will be convenient to trace the

medical career of Edward Forbes onward to its close,

after which we can uninterruptedly consider him in his
true vocation of Naturalist.

      The first year of medical study does not, as ordi
narily pursued, overtask a student, or deprive him of
a large amount of leisure ; and, where his tastes incline
him to devote that leisure to Natural History, there need

be little confliction between his inclination and his duty.
But the second year exacting as much anatomy from
him as the first did, and requiring him to keep up his
knowledge of chemistry, adds new studies, such as Sur
gery, Obstetrics, and Practice of Physic, which are far .

from congenial to the tastes of a naturalist. In con-
170  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. VI.

nexion with these classes, moreover, especially in the
third and fourth years, come much minute dissection in
the anatomical rooms, much attendance in the medical

and surgical wards of the hospitals, many visitations to
patients at their own houses, and to crown all, the con

stant revision of elementary knowledge, and careful -prc-
paration in every branch of medicine, which the final

examinations necessitate, if they are to be passed with

credit.

     These duties occupy fully the time even of those
whose love for the profession of Medicine makes all its

Idemands upon them be easily discharged. But, as

can testify from experience, they form an irksome bur
den to such as only desire to make Medicine a door of
entrance to the prosecution of the Physical Sciences.

      Now, Edward Forbes had not the least relish for the

practical duties of the surgeon or physician. He not
only greatly disliked them, but he dreaded lest his for
mal investiture with the title of physician should be
made a plea by his friends for his professional entrance
on the practice of Medicine, which would have been fatal
to his views as a naturalist. Nor were these objections
counterbalanced by any considerations founded on the
profession of medicine yielding an income. He had a

patrimony, secure enough as it then seemed, and simply

sufficient to supply all the wants of a student, and he
clearly perceived that Natural History was as ready as
the other sciences helpful to man, to acknowledge prac
tically that " the labourer is worthy of his hire."

    It would have been strange, accordingly, if he had

been a zealous medical student ; but when we further
1S32.  EDWARD FORBES.  171

consider that every day was opening up to him granderit,
and grander views of the magnificent empire of na
tural science ; and that, simultaneously, he was gather
ing about him a circle of young men of genial ways
and diversified tastes, who unavoidably and often unin
tentionally tempted him to take part in their favourite,
but to him alien pursuits, we shall not wonder that he
was one of the idlest students of medicine Edinburgh

ever saw.

     In later years, especially when speculating on the

future of his little son, he deprecated all compliments to

himself as a model student, and it would be a mockery

to offer any.

      He was in truth altogether in a false position ; most
willing to work, and actually working hard, but set to
labour at a calling for which he had the strongest aver
sion, whilst every facility was offered him for pursuing
another which had been his passion since his childhood.
Had he been pupil in a purely medical school, like those
attached to the London Hospitals, where, at least in his
student days, he would have found no distracting incen
tives to the study of Natural History, he might have put
the latter altogether aside for a season, and devoted him
self thoroughly to Medicine, though but as task-work, so as
to have quickly done with and get back to his favourite
studies. But in Edinburgh he felt towards Natural
History like one who was torn from his first love, and
yet was compelled daily to meet her, and who had his
attachment increased alike by the spectacle of her in
creasing beauty, and by the obstacles which prevented
 his devoting himself altogether to her. Even in London,
172                         MEMOIR OF     CHAP. VI.

however, he would have been tempted to put off the

evil day, and postpone the hour which signalled his ad
mission into the ranks of physician. "Once a doctor,

always a doctor," he felt to be practically as much the

              according to ecclesiastical theory, "once
rule as   is,                             if
                  a
priest, always priest." He was most reluctant, accord  a

ingly, to take the irrevocable vows, and doom himself

to handle the lancet instead of the pencil or the micro

scope, and to lose interest in all mollusca except the

medicinal leech. Nevertheless, prompted mainly by

filial obedience, which was prominent element in his
                               a

character, he made strenuous effort to become Doctor
               it
Forbes, and
                         a
                     seemed promising enough, as we have

seen, in his first medical year. In this second year,

however,  it   was plainly quite as much as he could do

to keep the balance even between the claims of Natural
History and Medicine. Before the close of the year

the equipoise was sensibly disturbed, and in the wrong;
direction Medicine, instead of preponderating, ceasing

to counterbalance its rival, and plainly destined, things
did not alter, to kick the beam. During the succeeding

years desperate efforts were made to adjust the balance,

and even to turn the scale in favour of medicine, but

they signally failed, and before we reach the spring of

1836, the medical scale-pan was as good as quite empty.
     There something serio-comic in the efforts which
a
           is
for season Forbes thus made to continue the study of
Medicine. He regularly attended the prescribed lectures,
and none of the note-takers in the class used the pen
more diligently than he. But his pen insensibly and

swiftly changed from writing into drawing instru
                            a          a
1832.  EDWARD FORBES.  173

ment, and, instead of reporting the prelection, sketched,
with a dash of caricature, the likeness of the Professor,

or of one or more of the students, and then disported

in pictorial fancies, showing how far away the thoughts
of the artist were from the lecturer or the lecture.

    I Ihave before me whilst write, a manuscript book

nominally devoted to notes on Professor Turner's lectures
on surgery, and Professor Alison's on the Institutes of
Medicine. To the latter, however, only one page is as
signed, and he possibly had a notebook to himself. The

book otherwise is mainly pictorial. A scanty rivulet, as it

were, of written notes, runs through the middle of certain
of the pages at irregular intervals. The broad margins of
these rivulets, besides the whole of the uninscribed leaves

of the book, are occupied with pencil, or pen-and-ink draw
ings, which, without doubt, were made in the class-room.

     Here and there are copies of the diagrams shown by
the lecturer, such as the convulsed body of a sufferer

from lock-jaw, a bandaged or ulcerated limb, or the
branches of an important artery. Mingled with these,

however, and quite overpowering them, are likenesses
of professors, lecturers, and students; Dr. Knox, who
appears in many attitudes, being the favourite subject
of portraiture : sketches of shells, flowers, crystals, imi
tations of children's drawings, and fantastic, imaginary

figures innumerable. Whimsically various though these
drawings are, a certain medical tone prevails among

them. A pedantic doctor flourishes a stethoscope. A

grim anatomist " opens" a body in an unheard-of fashion.
A sick man makes wry faces over a physic bottle. Skulls

abound ; skulls laughing, weeping, wearing spectacles,
174  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. VI.

looking wise, looking foolish, displaying every human
passion. Skeletons are not less abundant, and in the
most lively attitudes, gesticulating, dancing in couples,
fencing, perambulating ; more like living men and women
who had adopted the Rev. Sidney Smith's recipe against
very hot weather, and for coolness' sake had undressed
to their bones, than the grim relics of the dead, at home
only in the grave.

    It might justly be urged in defence of Forbes, that
ITurner, as can testify, was a most uninteresting lec
turer,--a timid, shy man, who could not look his class

in the face, and seemed fitted by Nature for anything
rather than the duties and responsibilities of an operat
ing surgeon. But it is needless to urge this plca, for
even where the Professors were famous as teachers, they
could not commend medicine to Forbes. Some por
tions of Dr. Alison's Lectures on Physiology must have
thoroughly interested him, but, these excepted, he wan
dered from lecture-room to lecture- room in obedience

to College rules which required his presence in them,
without finding anything so welcome as his own day

dreams.

    It was impossible, however, that a spirit so energetic

as his could passively endure the tedium of such routine
attendance on tiresome lectures, or be long content with
warding off ennui by indulging his fancy. An almost un
conscious reaction against the unintentional intellectual
tyranny exerted over him by the lecturers on branches
of medicine which he hated, led him to revenge him
self upon them by caricatures which by and by were

made public. Revenge is perhaps too strong a term,
1S32.     EDWARD FORBES.                                             175

for his nature was very kindly, and far from being dis

Iposed to hanker after vengeance. But know no milder

phrase which will express the fact, that the caricature
likenesses he published of Edinburgh academic digni
taries were, in some sort, reprisals for the unprofitable

waste of time which attendance on their prelections

had occasioned him. It was not a step likely to win

their favour towards him, and his consciousness of this

increased his reluctance to come before them as exa
Iminers.
          have adduced no proof of the truth of these

conclusions except the hieroglyphics of his note-book,

but more direct testimony is easily furnished. The

College companions who knew most about his medical

studies were his future colleagues, Professors Goodsir
and Bennett. Mr. Goodsir tells me that Edward Forbes

knew more of medicine than is generally supposed, and

that he could easily have mastered what little he did not

know, but he did not wish to take a medical degree.

Dr. Bennett states, in his Memoir, that during the period
of his attending the medical classes in Edinburgh, Forbes
" could never conquer his dislike to medicine as a pro -
fession. He was seldom seen in the dissecting-room or

Infirmary. Even his attendance on the purely medical

classes was of no great use to him, as he did little else

than sketch the features of the Professor, or of the

surrounding students." 1 Dr. Bennett adds, that in
the session 1834-5, Forbes and three others " were

associated in bringing out a weekly publication called

the University Maga. It was illustrated by sketches

of several prominent men about the College, executed

       i Edinburgh Monthly Medical Journal for January 1855, p. 78.
176                    MEMOIR OF                      CHAP. VI.

by Forbes, and contains several of his poetical effu

sions."1 We shall have more to say of the Maga again.

It is referred to here simply as the publication in which,

among others, certain of the prospective examiners of

Forbes had their likenesses presented in a fashion not

the most flattering.

     But we learn most from his own letters. The earliest

put at my disposal date from 1835. On December 3,
1835, he writes at length to his "father and mother."

I IIn the course of it he mentions :--" am as well as

could wish, and at present am very busy with purely

medical studies, anything but pleasant as you may

suppose from my dislike of them ; but followed up

earnestly and exclusively at present, in order that it may

not be said want of exertion should prevent my getting

a degree here. As it   if is,  expect     my health con(if

                         I                        ';
tinues) to pass my first examination in the first week

of May, and my second possible in July thus having

the prospect of eight months' hard work before me.

To enable me to do this am obliged to grind,' as                 it
                       ;

                           I

                                     is,
technically termed that undergo a private exami
is
nation with an authorized teacher or tutor, ceremonya
                                          is
                                                  a
now indispensable owing to the difficulty of passing,

though rather expensive, as the charge one pound six

shillings month. My hopes of getting through here
rest wholly on this. This class, from ten to eleven, and
another from two to three in the College (Pathology and
Clinical Surgery), with the Hospital at twelve, are the
sum of my occupations out of door at present." From

postscript             appears that the gentleman selected as
a

                 i

                   it
     Edinburgh Monthly Medical Journal for January 1855, p. 78.
1836.  EDWARD FORBES.                                                  177

private medical tutor was Dr. Seller, whose wide accom

plishments are known to all. He began to attend him
in November. At Christmas, he writes again at con

siderable length to his father and mother, especially in

reference to the latter, who was suffering from an illness

which soon after proved fatal. In the course of this

letter he alludes more than once to his studies, as fol

lows :-- " I shall attend to your request of not visiting

the fever wards, and will not put myself in the way
Iof any infectious diseases, which am happy to say are
...greatly diminished in the hospital of late.                         I leave

off my medical studies during the holiday week, and

amuse myself with Natural History, etc., as a relief. . .

. . The University is on the qui vive at present, in con

sequence of the addition, during the last month, of the
celebrated Sir Charles Bell to its list of Professors, as

the successor of Professor Turner in the chair of surgery.

  I" expect to get through this year -- after which (and

Iindeed independent of which) have chalked out a line

which I have every reason to believe will be attended

Iwith success, and which plan may submit to you, in

detail, in a future letter."1

     On January 3, 1836, -Edward Forbes had the great
misfortune of losing his mother. Her death took away

one Btrong motive for taking a medical degree. He
knew that his elevation to the rank and title of phy

sician would greatly please her, and he loved her too

well to grudge struggling hard to give her this pleasure.

But his father looked to the doctorate more as the pass-

   ' This letter ie dated " 6, Hoive St., Edinbro., Monday, Dec. 28."  The post

mark gives the year 1835.

                                                       M
178              MEMOIR OF                       CHAP. VI.

port to a profession, than as an honour, and his son, to

whom the profession was more unwelcome than the title,

was not equally desirous to meet his wishes. He still,

however, went on with his medical studies.

     On March 11, 1836, he writes to his father: -- "1

have been during the past and present month, mainly

occupied with the writing of my Thesis, which has in

Ideed taken up more time than can conveniently spare.

Yet it is a task which must be performed, and which

ought to have an influence with the Professors, though

I am afraid some of them do not care much about the

merits of a Thesis, especially a botanical one, as mine is.

As a medical one from me would have been a mere com

Ipilation, and of no use hereafter, preferred writing an

original one, even though the subject may lead to a dis

pute as to the propriety of doing so. The two Natural

History professors wish to see Natural History theses

introduced, and have expressed their intention to sup

port any student so doing.

    " In May, I go up for my first examination. I fear
much it will be a severe one on some points, as I have

every reason to expect no quarter from one or two of
Ithe examiners.
                 shall do my best, however, to get
Ithrough, and contest the point should meet with any

unfairness.

     "My medical studies are sadly in the way of my
Iscientific and literary pursuits and views.
                                                 can get

nothing done in Natural History at present, which an

Inoys me exceedingly, inasmuch as have many oppor

tunities, indeed more and more every day, of turning

my scientific researches to ultimate advantage.  The
1830.                  EDWARD FOBBES.    179

summer, too, must be spoiled in the same way, for should

Iit be destined that am to pass my first examination,
as I hope it may be, I shall have doubly hard work for

my second, of [for] which, from circumstances over

which I had no control, -- the death of the Professor of

Materia Medica, ere he had half-completed his course,

and the useless lectures of the Professor of Practice of

IPhysic, -- am, in common with all those who commenced

in 1831, but ill-prepared." From' a postscript to this

letter, it appears that he is still attending Dr. Seller's

private examinations.

     To his student friends he expressed himself still more

unreservedly. In a letter to Dr. Percy,1 of date, October

10, 1835, he thus writes from the Isle of Man, looking

forward to his approaching examinations :--" The next

winter will be a most uncongenial one to my habits.

II must pass, if possible, and to tell the truth abhor

the profession and despise the degree. And now for

Botany."

     The " if possible," the counterpart of the " should it

Ibe destined am to pass," of the letter to his father, was

not a superfluous phrase. May was the month of trial,

but on the 24th of the preceding April, he writes from

"IEdinburgh to Percy in Paris :-- am as ambitious as

you are of discoveries beyond the Equator -- the expe

dition of my day-dreams being the crossing of New

Holland through the centre, if possible. We might some

day or other do it together. As it
i                                        am quite lost to

                                   iIs,
the medical profession, finding my professional know-

      One of his earliest friends at College, and afterwards his colleague in the Go
vernment School of Mines, London.
180          MEMOIR OF                      CHAP. VI.

Iledge so defective, that have been obliged to give up

all thoughts of taking my degree here this year. In

Ishort, from this day mean to devote myself wholly

to science and literature, trusting that my devotion to

their cause may yet interest fortune in my behalf and

not (sic)1 bring me in, before many years roll over, some
remuneration for my exertions." The vow thus recorded

was kept, and Medicine as a profession finally abandoned.

A few particulars concerning the last effort to become

Doctor Forbes are furnished by Dr. Bennett. " On the

approach of spring 1836, it became necessary for Ed

ward Forbes to prepare for his examination, at the pro

spect of which he manifested on all occasions the greatest

repugnance.  But as the necessity of ' going up' was

strongly urged by his friends, and as he was deficient

in the requisite knowledge, the writer of this sketch

[Dr. Bennett] (being at the moment considered chief

medicus of the set) undertook to grind him in anatomy
and physiology. With great trouble we at length forced

him to write out his schedule of study, and send it in to

the secretary's office. Then commenced many dismal

evenings of yawnings over the bones, and anatomical

books, of which he soon became weary, often arranging

with friends to come in at the time when he thought

he should be tired of such work. We need scarcely

say that Cloquet's Anatomy and the bones were then

thrown aside for an evening of gaiety and philosophi

cal discussion. . . . After this it need not be won

dered at that, when summoned to appear on a certain

   i The not is plainly a clerical error.   -- *' Excuse blunders, as 1 never re-read
In a note to thi.s very letter he writes :  my letters."
1830.         EDWARD FORBES.  181

afternoon, he at the appointed time was non inven

tus."

     To one aspect only of this transaction does reference
seem necessary. In one of the letters to his father he

alludes to the severity with which he is likely to be

treated by certain of the examiners, and to the possi

bility of unfairness being shown him. His apprehension
of unfairness was certainly groundless, and can only be

set down as one of the baseless alarms which character
istically haunt the imaginations of students " going up"

for their degrees. His expectation of severity (but not
of over-severity) was better founded. The professors of

Botany and Natural History appreciated him as a man

of rare genius, accomplishment, and power of work, but
to the majority of their colleagues, as to the University

in general, he was familiar only as an eccentric youth,

conspicuous by his long hair and moustache, and known

to be the editor of the audacious Maga, and the de

signer of the irreverential portraits of academic digni

taries which were weekly displayed at the College gate.

Edward Forbes knew this, and the conscience which

makes cowards of us all, doubtless brought before him

various productions of his pen and pencil, which were
not exactly calculated to propitiate examiners in his

favour, even where they themselves were satirized in

the most harmless way. Dr. Hope had one all-comprehen
sive denunciatory phrase, " strictly unacademical," which

stamped as under the professorial ban whatever it was
Iapplied to.
              scarcely know what about Edward Forbes
-- the long hair; the then outre. moustache; the red ribbon

across the breast (of which more presently) ; the portrait
182  MEMOIR OF                                          CHAP. VI.

taking in the class-room -- would have failed to be in

cluded in the damnatory category.

     Forbes doubtless realized all this, and felt that he

could not expect leniency at the hands of the examiners,

and the transition was easy to the exaggerated fancy
that they would do their best to reject him. His judg

ments of other men were generally most charitable, and
this exception will smprise no one who has had personal
or relative experience of the feelings with which overtasked

students, out of health and doubtful of success, regard

their prospective examiners.          They invariably figure

them to themselves, as if each was a Spanish Torque -

mada, or English Judge Jeffreys. Here in his own

serio-comic fashion is Forbes's acknowledgment of the
fact :--

     THE VISION OF ONE " GOING UP."

     A FRAGMENT.
     I'Twas after dinner, ycaterday,
                                      sat,

     In my arm chair before a blazing fire,

     When moat Bomniferously sleepy, I,
     In consequence of loaded stomach, felt,

     And to promote digestion thought it l>est,
     To put the candles out and full asleep.

     IMcthought that most eventful day had come

     When before professors moat austere

     Must go, and undergo examination,

     And that I sat me trembling and afraid

     On the stone steps of famed Physicians' Hull,
     Unknowing how to knock and ring through fear,
     Dark fear nnd trepidation, spirits which
     Too long have terrified the youthful mind, --
     At first in shape of birch and sugar-cane

     (Some say bamboo, and others nine-tailed cat),
     And then assuming human countenance,
     In form of frown, and taunt, and scornful smile :

     When as I sat, there came from out the door
     A poor rejected student, whose pale looks

     And palpitating heart bespoke his fate,
     Still stronger told by sight most horrible
EDWARD FORBES.  183

                   Of pmnic acid bottle in his hand,
                      The final finisher of nil his woes ;
                      And at hiB heels a fierce examinator
                      Rushed reckless, with a loud-resounding laugh,
                      When me espying, in ho bode me come,
                      And meet my fate, -- entranced by the gaze
                      Of his fierce eye, and by the solemn sound
                      Of voice used to imperative command,

               I followed him instinctively, and saw

                   A sight which sickens me to recollect.
                      There in a lofty and a lengthy hall,
                      Around a table covered with green baize,
                      Sat the Examinators, -- animals
                   Of wondrous shapes, with horns, and bills, and claws,
                      And hoofs, and asses' ears, and grinding teeth,
                      Wherewith to torment and to terrify
                      The luckless student, who, unknowing what
                   A horrid fate awaited him, came there
                      In Sunday clothes to seek for a degree

                      There came a horrid shriek across my brain,

               IAnd in excess of terror awoke,

                      Then thankful found myself once more nlive
                      In my arm-chair's embraces, by the side
                      Of half-exhausted fire -- so breathed a prayer,
                      And rang my bell for a supply of coals,
                      Then reading Cloquel fell asleep again Ii

    It may surprise some, and seem to them a sign of

weakness of will, that a man of Forbes's intellectual

capacity and power of work, should not have doggedly

stuck to Medicine and taken his degree, as so many men

Iof far inferior powers have done. But if feel tempted

for a moment to concur in this surprise, and to affirm

that he would have saved time and avoided fret, had

he made short work of Medicine and returned, crowned

with his degree, to Natural History, I feel compelled to

pause for two reasons.
      1st, The period of his nominal study of Medicine

was not one of idleness, but of such devoted labour to

Natural History cis in the end produced the most splendid

                            ' University Sfaga, No. IX. for March 5, 18V>.
184              MEMOIR OF          CHAP. VI.

fruits. And who shall say that if these precious years,

which lie between eighteen and twenty-three, had been

absorbed by Medicine, we should have seen any such

fruits at all ?

     2c?, The only motive which induced him to attempt

the study of Medicine, was the wish of his parents, or

rather of his father, who desired to see him attached to

a profession by which he could support himself. It very

soon, however, became most evident to Forbes, that

though it might cost him no immense effort to obtain a

medical degree, it would be an utterly useless title, for

he had no fitness for the duties of medical practitioner.

On the other hand, he felt that exceedingly few were

qualifying themselves, as he was diligently doing, for a

chair of Natural History, and that he might reasonably

hope to fill the most famous chair in the country.

Meanwhile, there were lesser lectureships and .appoint

ments, one or other of which he could scarcely fail to

get, seeing that Botany, Geology, and Zoology, were

equally familiar to him. He was actuated thus by a

wise policy in what seemed to many, mere caprice or

self-indulgent idleness. The death of his mother re

moved one of the only two persons in the world who

specially desired to see him a doctor ; and she left him

property held in her own right, so that in pecuniary

matters he was so far independent.  It remained then

only to satisfy his father that a medical degree would bo

useless to him, and he seems to have found no difficulty

in this, for there is no rumour, or trace of any differ

ence between them, and his allowance continued to be

as liberal as before. He celebrated his emancipation
1S3I!.       EDWARD FORBES.

from the fetters of Medicine, by energetically aiding in
the foundation of a Botanical Society in Edinburgh,
a proof alike that love of idleness was not the cause
of his abandoning Medicine, and that he had not for
feited the esteem of his peers or seniors by its abandon

ment.

      So ended the endeavour of Edward Forbes to beit,

come a physician. For five years he had nominally been
training himself to win with distinction an honorary title,
and just when it was within his grasp he flung away his
weapons and folded his arms. Of the five sciences on
which in the first examination he would have been inter
rogated, he could have taken in Natural History and
Botany a place far above that which even the most
distinguished graduates of his own, or of later epochs
dreamed of attaining. In Chemistry, his answers would
certainly have been much beyond the average. In Phy
siology his knowledge, apart from Pathology, was un
avoidably large, and the Professor and Examiner, Dr.
Alison, was one so kind and gentle that no student
feared to enter his presence. Only on the minute in
tricacies of Anatomy, which are justly demanded from
the future surgeon and physician, was his knowledge
defective. But Dr. Monro, though given to put unex
pected and often unanswerable questions, was not an
unfair or severe examiner, and Forbes, had he cared to

do could easily, even without the friendly assistance
which was at his command, have mastered more minute

anatomy than would have satisfied all the three Monros

as examiners.
186  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. VI.

       The subjects also of the second examination were
more familiar to him than even his own letters imply.
He could easily have been puzzled by many a question
on Practical Medicine and Surgery, but he could apply
their principles when occasion demanded. Dr. Bennett

Ihas, believe, done him unintentionally injustice in this

matter. His delight in watching the ways and manners
of men took him to the wards of the Hospital, as a place
for such study, apart from its relation to medicine. He
has told me of incidents in the Royal Infirmary of Edin
burgh, which implied that he was no stranger to its
wards ; and when, in fulfilment of his vow to study only
Science and Ait, he went in 1836 to Paris, he made an

exception in favour of the Hospitals, of which he says, in

a letter to Percy :--

                                                                                      " Nov. --, 183li.

    I" propose spending the winter in Paris, mainly
Istudying Natural History, for have almost cut Medi
Icine, though curiosity will, hope, induce me to walk

the Hospitals every other morning."
     When, moreover, he was attached to the Beacon sur-

veying-vessel, he acted for weeks together as surgeon

to the tender, in which he carried on his indefatigable

dredgings.

     Let no idle medical student, therefore, who dare not

face the Examiners, justify his cowardice by an appeal
to Edward Forbes, unless he can show that he is pre
eminent in two-fifths of the subjects of the first examina
tion, eminent in four, and quite able to master the fifth ;
and unless further he can show that, in recompense for
declining to attempt this, the time which it would have
1830.  EDWARD FORBES.  187

occupied to small medical purpose, has been expended
in realizing scientific results of the highest value.

      So his biographer can now plead, but few would
have pleaded so in 1836; and we could not have blamed

his father, if he had insisted on his son's taking a degree,

and qualifying himself for the medical profession.
      To most but himself he seemed to have made ship

wreck of his genius. He had tried two professions and
failed : Art disowned him; Medicine disowned him. To

be a virtuoso man of the world appeared the goal of his

 ambition.

     So it seemed, but so it was not. His genius had
reached its nadir, and, though none knew it less than
himself, half its course was spent. It was from this

 moment daily to mount higher and higher above the

visible horizon, till it reached, and for too brief a season

 shone from, the zenith.

      When he parted from Fine Art, he uttered a goodbye,
 not a farewell, and in token thereof he took his pencil
 with him. When he parted from Medicine, he asked
 to retain his scalpel as a memorial of the art of dis
 section which she had taught him. With these two
 simple tools alternately in his hands, and, as guide and
 interpreter of both, the microscope at his eye, he had
 such a triad of things as pleased his fancy, and occupied
 all his faculties. What use he made of these, and how

 he added another "mystical triangle" to the effective
 apparatus of Natural History, we are now to see, but
 before doing so, we must retrace our steps a little to
 mark some aspects of his life during the years nomi
 nally devoted to the study of Medicine.
                     CHAPTER VIT.

                                    STUDENT CLUBS.

     The five years spent by Edward Forbes in the study
of Medicine were not years of mere mental toil and soli
tary relaxation. It was an eminently social and happy
time ; social to a degree far beyond the average of Edin
burgh student life. His sunny spirit received a welcome
everywhere, and drew together all that was generous and
enthusiastic within its sphere. Not merely students of
natural history and of medicine, but of art, of theology,
and of law, clustered around him. Differences of taste,
pursuit, profession, rank, or nation, seemed ever to melt
away before him. Wherever he found an earnest true-
heartedness, it was enough to secure to its possessor the
fellowship of Edward Forbes.

      There was something characteristic, too, in the nature

of this social element. It did not confine itself to mere

festivity or idle gossip. None indeed could sing a fun
nier song or keep a merrier table. But Forbes went
further ; he sought to bind his companions into a brother
hood of earnest workers and true men. Song and joke
at one time, sober talk at another, and ever the example
of his own buoyant and truth-loving spirit, were the
means whereby he sought to attain his end.
1831.  EDWARD FORBES.  189

     And so it came to pass that this feeling, which had

always been a dominant one, at last took a more de
finite form. Forbes and three of his fellow-students

resolved themselves into a society or brotherhood for

mutual encouragement and assistance in the search of

truth. They gradually added to their number, though
with scrupulous care, until eventually brethren were to
be found over the whole empire, and in almost every

city of Europe and America. The society, though its
vitality has passed away, is not even yet wholly extinct.
Its foundation and early progress cost Edward Forbes
not a little thought and labour ; he took an active in

terest in it even when many hundred miles away in the

iEgean Sea ; amid the toil and bustle of a professorial
life in London he continued to regard it as his special
care ; and when matters in Edinburgh seemed to be

getting wrong, he resolved to leave London in order

to set them right. In short, this society exerted no
unimportant influence on the career of Forbes ; and
the history of his connexion with it affords us glimpses

into his own inner nature, as well as the key to part of

his later life.

    It started with vigour enough, rartainly, but without

the promise of yielding very desirable results. Not in
deed until it had been some months in existence were its
ultimate ends defined. At first its aim was a vague,

confused one of upholding good-fellowship, satirising
the obnoxious professors, marking out what were called
" snobbish" students for ridicule, advocating the rights
of the University, printing doggrel verses, and cutting
up things in general. And this medley of objects found
190         MEMOIR OF                        CHAP. VII.

its development in a weekly journal, entitled The Uni

versity Maga.

    It was in the winter of 1834 (Forbes's fourth year

at College) that Charles Erskine Stewart, Donald Macas-

kill, Edward Forbes, and James Brotherston Laughton,

constituted themselves the "Maga Club." Erskine en

tered College in the same year with Forbes, and studied
first Literature, then Medicine. He was the prime mover

in the "Club," and continued its President until 1836,

when he joined the army in India. Forbes had an espe

cial love for him, as indeed he could not fail to have, for

Erskine's enthusiastic spirit and literary power were

characteristics that Forbes knew well how to prize.

Macaskill had likewise attended the medical and literary

classes, and Forbes valued him not only for his sterling

qualities of heart, but for a strong poetical vein with

which our naturalist warmly sympathized, and which as

warmly sympathized with him. Forbes was ever ready

with some nescio quid nugarum for Macaskill's criticism,

who himself also wrote verses which his friend highly

esteemed.1  Laughton was studying for the Church,

having entered College with Forbes in 1831.

The professed objects of the Maga Club were litera

ture and good-fellowship. The latter seems at the out

set to have been of a somewhat vigorous kind, seeing

that each club-night was ushered in by nine standing

   >Among Eil waul Forbes's early pipers   it was owing to the advice of his two
there is a manuscript dedication of a      friends, Macaskill and Stewart, tlutt
volume of verse to Macaskill. Though       Forbes had resolved to publish his effn-
                                           sions, and this dedicatory epistle shows
never published, the poems were actually   how highly he valued their opinion, and
written. They related chiefly to the       how warmly he cherished their friend-
jassions, pursuits, and pleasures of stu-
dent life, and the greater number had      ship,

been seen by Macaskill alone. Indeed,
1832.           EDWARD FORBES.                                                     191

toasts, beginning with " The University Maga," and con
cluding with " Rule Britannia," and a heavy penalty
lighted on the head of any member who evaded one of
these. Such at least was the tenor of the " Rules,"

though it does not appear that they were very strictly fol

lowed. By degrees, indeed, their spirit greatly changed.
The " good-fellowship" remained as strong as ever, but
its circle grew wider, and it became eventually almost

wholly a sympathy of head and heart in the pursuits and

professions of life.

     But the great feature and boast of the Maga Club
was The University Maga. In the preparation of that
weekly sheet, the " Magi" vindicated the first resolution
of their club --the cultivation of literature.1

       Here weary students, groaning under the dreariness

of lectures which they took small pains to follow, poured
out their wrath against the hapless professors. We have

i The publication of such a magazine               science for sixpence : and these, too, at
                                                   all manner of periodical issuing, weekly,
was no new thing in the history of the

Edinburgh University. The following                twice a week, once a fortnight, monthly.
                                                   Nothing would do." The starting of
passage occurs  "inONf ot.hevn.moafnythe   Univer  the Maga revived the mania, and two
sity Mnga :-                              [Univer
                                                   other journals appeared as its rivals ;
sity] periodicals which have appeared              but they both died a natural death be

within a few years hack, such as the

Lapsus Lingua;, Heliconian Gazette,                fore the completion of the winter ses
                                                   sion, while the Maga, after taking
College Observer, University Magazine,

Nemo, Anti-Nemo, Squib, and Univer                 weekly occasion to ridicule her compe
                                                   titors, held on triumphantly to the end.
sity Journal, three only have existed an

entire session, viz. : the first, the third,       The writer of the article from which the

and the fourth ; whether the first paid            foregoing passage is taken, nevertheless
                                                   confesses thnt the Maga had not been
its expenses wo cannot say ; the third
barely did so ; the fourth did not. All            s"upTphoorutegdh  as it ought.   He concludes--
                                                                     the price be  but a few pence,
varieties of style and matter were tried

to insure success ; in the first, second,          yet will our beneficent brethren depute
                                                   one out of every fifty to buy a number,
and fifth, there was fun for a few cop
                                                   ill order that all may read. They enjoy,
pers ; in the sixth and seventh they had           but will not pay for their enjoyment."
personality for ditto ; in the third they          Two sessions afterwards (viz., in 1887-38)
                                                   the Maga re-appeared once more in
had serious literature for ditto; in the

fourth they had an excellent literary

magazine for a shilling ; in the fifth             greater vigour than ever, as we shall see

mentioned they had literature nnd                  in a subsequent chapter.
192                   MEMOIR OF              CHAP. VII.

seen in a previous chapter that this kind of good-natured
revenge suited the taste of Edward Forbes, and some of

the satirical verses are evidently by him. Some of the
oddities about College came in for their share of atten
tion, particularly a Quaker pastry-cook in the vicinity,
who, under the cognomen of " Margo Lata," or Broad-
Brim, is made the subject of a doggrel Latin ode. The

Maga was first published on January 8, 1835, but by

some unlucky mischance, No. n. preceded No.                                       which
                    a
did not appear till the next week. By way of apology,a

was gravely asserted that the parties concerned wereis
it it                            a
"indeed so glorious, that they might well be afflictedis p. it
         is
with double vision, quaffing repeated bumpers in honour        is
                                                                     I.,
of the birth of the illustrious and ever-to-be-renowned
                                                                                p.
Maga. But, friends, this the real beginning, although

appears as the continuation, and thus the continua

tion the beginning, and the beginning        the con

tinuation."

Every Thursday new number was hawked about

the streets, and greedily devoured in the class-rooms.

To each was appended  sketch by Forbes of one of

the professors, or of some conspicuous individual of

the neighbourhood, and along -with  some explana

tory remarks, usually not of very complimentary kind.

The verses on the "Anatomy Bill," given above, 95,

were printed in the third number, and the pathetic
" Vision of one going up," quoted at 182, formed part

of No. IX.
     The following passage from an article on the " Decline

of Poetry about College," in No. ix, characteristic of
Forbes -- " Wonderful to relate (or more classically,
     :
1KM-35.  EDWARD FORBES.  193

    mirabile dictu), the sons of the scalpel send out more
    muse-enamoured gentlemen than all the other faculties
    put together. Recollect, we allude only to our own
    Alma. These rhyming Meds are the laziest race on
. earth ; they hate their profession, and will not learn
    any other; they love literature and science with their
    whole soul, and look no farther for sustenance, or rather
    they forget sustenance altogether in their search after
    fame. They are all philosophers, metaphysicians, wits,
    philologists, naturalists, in short, everything but students

   of their own profession ; yet if a lawyer, or a divine, or a

    man of figures ventures to attack physic and physicians,
    they pepper him with a caustic defence, well worthy
    of true sons of Esculapius. They seldom take their

   degrees, for a simple reason --never being prepared. It

    would be an easier matter for one of the tribe to pass
    for advocate or minister than physician. But they are,
    to a man, good fellows and clever fellows, the most
    intellectual set in the known world."

          The editor of Blackwood's Magazine, was regarded
    by the writers of the Maga as a sort of tutelar deity ;
    allusions, odes, and songs to Christopher North abound
    throughout their pages ; to him the volume was finally
    dedicated, and they have gone so far as to give a por
    trait of him at the end of No. iv. The likeness is by no

   means flattering ; -- a disreputable-looking, bull-necked

    man, with one hand thrust into his buttoned coat, the

    other into his breeches pocket, gazes complacently at a
    sheet of the Maga hanging from a board, and hawked
    about by a still more disreputable Irishman.

           The twelfth and last number was published on 26 th

                                                      N
194                     MEMOIR OF  CHAP. VII.

March. It concludes with a " View of the Symposium,"

after the "Noctes Ambrosianae," consisting of songs, odes,
speeches, toasts, and merry-making, all rather weak,

except the last, which was doubtless as hearty as young
lungs and young hearts could make it. And so, after
all its squibs and satire and personality, the University
Maga ends as it began, in the most unbounded fun and

good-nature.

     Through this gateway of satire and frolic Edward
Forbes entered into a higher and nobler fellowship. He,

as well as his companions, began to discover that, after
all, there must be some better co-operation than that

of mutually ridiculing the unpopular professors and
" snobbish" students ; that " good fellowship " might
1)0 the cementing bond of a union embracing all who

in literature, science, or art were striving to extend the
domain of truth, or to minister to the higher faculties
of their fellow-men. As week after week the Maga

appeared, this feeling continued to gather strength,
until, on the 9th March 1835, the "Magi," or members

of the Maga club, resolved to found a brotherhood for

mutual assistance and encouragement in their several

spheres of occupation.  C. E. Stewart continued pre
sident, " Archi-Magus," or " Grand Master," with Forbes,

Macaskill, and Laughton, as his deputies. Canons were
framed for the government of the order and the admis
sion of members. The words 0IN02, EPfiS, MA0H2I2

(wine, love, learning) were adopted as the watchword. As
outward symbols of their union, the members wore across

the breast a narrow silk ribbon, rose-coloured and black,

with the mystic letters o. E. M. worked into its texture ;
1835.  EDWARD FORBES.  195

also a small silver triangle with the favourite Greek triad
engraved thereon. Of these insignia, the triangle was
to be worn at all meetings of the Order, while the ribbon
was meant to be always visible across the breast. And
this rule was by some of the members, such as Forbes,

most conscientiously observed.
      Such were the outward tokens of this union ; its

spirit and aims may be gathered from a sketch drawn
out by Forbes, gradually modified and enlarged, and

afterwards printed as follows :--

      " The highest aim of man is the discovery of the
Truth ; the search after Truth is his noblest occupation.

It is more ; it is his duty. Every step onwards we take

in science and learning, tells us how nearly all sciences

are connected. There is a deep philosophy in that con
nexion yet undeveloped ; a philosophy of the utmost

moment to man : let us seek it out. The world in which

we live is a beautiful world, and the Spirit of Omni

potence has given us many pleasures and blessings ;
shall we not enjoy them ? Let us refresh ourselves with

them thankfully, whilst we go forth in our search after
Truth. We are all brethren, but it has pleased God
variously to endow our minds. Some delight in one
thing, some in another. Some work for the good of the
body, and some for the good of the soul. Let us all
196  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. VII.

work together in fellowship for our mutual happiness
and joy. Wherefore should men quarrel one with
another, because they hold different doctrines? Such
as seek for Truth in the right spirit sympathize with
each other, and, however opposite may be their present
opinions, revile them not, but assist in their development,

knowing, however wide apart may seem the paths they

have chosen, one goal is aimed at, and if persevering,

both must meet in the one wished for temple. Let
those who feel the spirit to develop the Wisdom of
Creation, and to act for the good of their fellow-men,
strong within them, unite together in a bond of fellow
ship, each Brother devoting his time and his energies to
the department for which he feels and proves himself
best fitted, communicating his knowledge to all, so that
all may benefit thereby, casting away selfishness, and
enforcing precepts of love. By such means glory shall
accrue to his order, so that it may wax powerful in
intellectual strength, and become a mental and a moral
safeguard to the world, and a bond of union among all
nations. Such is our Brotherhood."

      The spirit of the Order, and the nature of the quali
fications requisite for admission, are still further exhibited
in the subjoined canons which were printed and cir
culated :--

      " This Brotherhood is a Union of the searchers after
Truth, for the glory of God, the good of all, and the
honour of the Order, to the end that mind may hold its
rightful sway in the world.

    " It is a Fellowship demanding of its Members earnest

ness, ability, and philanthropy, and recognising among
1835.  EDWARD FORBES.                     197

them no distinctions of nation, party, rank, or pro

fession.
      " Works done and approved, a sincere and loving

spirit, and the energy to act, are the qualities required
of the Candidate.

      " Love for the good and the beautiful is demanded of
the Brothers, as well as the determination to seek for

truth, and urge others to the search. Charity to all
earnest opinions, kindness to all living creatures, and
thankfulness for the blessings by which we are sur
rounded, are inculcated on the Brethren.

     " Co-operation in research, assistance in danger and
adversity, advice and firm friendship, are extended by
the Brethren towards each other.

      " The Triangle, symbolical of learning, love, and fel
lowship, and the Roseate Band, emblematical of their

union, are the outward signs by which the Brethren

recognise each other throughout the world."

    It would be out of place here to enter into the details

of the working of the Brotherhood ; of its two grades,
" Associates" selected with care from the outer world,
and adorned only with the ribbon and " Triangles," to

which the first was a preparatory stage ; of its nine cere
monial officers, " Bearer of the Holy Triangle," " Bearer
of the Mystic Lyre," " Bearer of the Banner of the Holy

Triangle," etc., and an anomalous dignitary who flourishes
"The Holy Poker;"1 of its ceremonies of admission,
its " conclaves," " assemblages," and " meetings." These

   i From a protest of Mncaskill in a     most have guessed, was a sly joke of
letter to Forbes, it would seem that the  Forbes's own.
addition of this title, as one might al-
198  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. VII.

things were only the outer shell, carefully enough attended
to at first, but many of which became eventually ob
solete. One feature, however, in connexion with one
of Forbes's characteristics, deserves remark. We have

seen in the previous chapters what an affection he had
for a trinity of things, and how lovingly from his earliest
years he used to sketch the triangular symbol of his
native island. This fondness found ample field for its
exercise in the organization of the brotherhood, which,
doubtless, owed its form mainly to him. The Order was
founded on the ninth day of the third month, its symbol
was the triangle, its motto a triad, its ceremonial officers
nine, the hour of meeting three minutes past nine, and

so on.

    For upwards of three years the Order had no definite
name. The discontinuance of the Maga, and the en
larged spirit of the society, rendered the old name--
" Maga Club," no longer appropriate. In some of their
papers it was styled " the most powerful brotherhood, pro

claiming itself by the words MA0H2I2, EPJ22, 0IN02," and

each document bore on its front the mystic triangle and
o. e. m. Hence they sometimes called themselves oinero-
maths, and talked of their " bosoms glowing with oinero-
mathic fire." C. E. Stewart, however, on his return
from India in 1838 (he had quitted Edinburgh in
1835), denounced the term as " a barbarous compound,"
and proposed to adopt the title that had been suggested
by a French frater, M. Jalabert, " The Universal Brother
hood of the Friends of Truth." This, accordingly, be
came the recognised designation.

   It required no great foresight to conjecture that the
ft                  EDWARD FORBES.  199
             1833.

appearance of a band of young men flaunting about
college with conspicuous red ribbons over their breasts,
understood, too, to hold secret conclaves (not, perhaps,
for the very best purposes), and evidently steeped in
freemasonry and mysticism, would be hailed with no
small amount of ridicule. That the ridicule did come,

is very evident from the language employed by the
leaders of the set, specially by Forbes, to solace the

brethren and vindicate the dignity of the Order. In one
of his addresses to them, he says : " A fancy regarding
us has gone abroad which it should ever be a duty on

our parts to combat, namely, the idea that our Order is
what is called a secret society, that we have passwords
and signs and mummeries, known only to ourselves, and
that initiation into our brotherhood is not merely the
union of one intellectual mind with another, for a noble

and an open purpose, but an introduction to secrets and
fancied mysteries of our own. Such a fancy is very
liable to be adopted by two very different classes of per
sons, such as are imperfectly acquainted with our fellow
ship and its objects, and such as have not the capacity

to comprehend our motives. The former class it be
comes us to undeceive ; the latter was formed to obey ; it
is our business to guide them to the truth." And the

Archi-Magus triumphantly demands whether " any one
real truth has ever yet been overthrown by a sneer."

Notwithstanding these and other comfortable words,
however, we find traces of some delinquents whose
" oincromathic lire" had not been proof against the cold
breath of the world. Luckless brethren 1 their names

were unworthy of a place on the roll of the Universal
200                 MEMOIR OF  CHAf. VII.

Brotherhood, and they descended once more into the

outer world !

    In no point were the canons more strictly followed
than in the election of new members. A candidate had

to show, by actual work done, that he would be likely to

further the interests of the Order, and diligent inquiry

was made as to how far he had developed in him the
Ifnecessary spirit of geniality and good-fellowship.
                                                      he

failed in either of these respects, his election became

highly improbable.  Even if elected, he only attained

the dignity of associate, and had to manifest fresh dili

gence and zeal before he could be raised to the honour of

the mystic Triangle. The Brethren exercised a careful

fvigilance over each other. All reports touching the good

name of any rater were rigorously investigated, and it

went hard with him if these reports turned out to be

true. Vice in every form lay under the ban, for they
were to be a band, not only of earnest workers, but of

honourable and virtuous men. Whatever was mean or

selfish stood in direct antagonism to that spirit of truth

which so essentially characterized the brotherhood.

     One cannot fail to notice how typical of Forbes's after

career were the spirit and aims of this society. Its aim

truly was a lofty one : its members were to devote

themselves to the high and onerous task of studying

and elucidating the wondrous world of Truth that lay
around them. To this, as to the central duty, all other

duties were to converge, and with this as its ultimate

end was every pursuit to be undertaken : it was, in

short, a kind of leaven, by which the whole life should be

influenced. The Order embraced students not only of
1KB. EDWARD FORBES. 201

nature, but of medicine, of theology, of literature, of law,
of art ; all, indeed, who were willing to carry with them
into their profession, whatever that might be, the earnest
truth-loving spirit of the Order. Thoroughly catholic,

it knew no distinctions of rank or sect or nation ; it

aimed at breaking down all the barriers, social or other
wise, which impede the free current and interchange of
sympathy, that thus all the separate and solitary rivulets
of inquiry and thought might at length flow into one
broad, deep river, onwards to the ocean of Truth. This
end, they believed, could be accelerated by a cordial co
operation and sympathy in the pursuits of life, and hence
they bound themselves to regard each fellow-member as
a brother in whose welfare all were concerned, and whom,

in difficulty or distress, they were to counsel and assist.
And then, as the oil that kept all this machinery in easy
motion, there lay a hearty geniality and good-fellowship,
and an abhorrence of everything that came under the
designation of " snobbish." There was to be no scien
tific cant amongst them. They believed that a man of
science might be as full of mirth and gaiety as any other
man, and that the search after truth to which they had
bound themselves, though doubtless a serious and onerous
pursuit, was nevertheless quite compatible with a keen
relish for all the amenities and socialities of life.

      Such was the spirit of the " Universal Brotherhood
of the Friends of Truth ;" and such, too, were some of
the leading features in the character of Edward Forbes.
That scientific Freemasonry seems indeed like a visible
manifestation of his inner spirit, his large-heartedness;
his love of truth, his geniality, his high views of the
202  MEMOIR OF EDWARD FORBES.  CHAP. VIL

destiny of science, are all there behind an outward show
of mysticism, and a boyish love of oddity and display.

In the institution of this Brotherhood, to which he gave
so much of his time, he sounded, as it were, the key-note

of his scientific life, and in all his after career, amid new

scenes and new circles of friendship, it remained the

key-note to the end.
     The after progress of the " Brotherhood " will be

noticed in subsequent pages. But before resuming the
narrative, where it was dropped at the end of the pre
ceding chapter, we must turn to look at another of the
features which marked the five years of Edward Forbes's

medical life.
                      CHAPTER VIII.

                        VACATION RAMBLES.

      The summer classes at the University of Edinburgh

close about the end of July ; the winter session does not

commence till the beginning of November. Three full
months are thus at the student's disposal, and precious
months they ever were to Edward Forbes. Released
from the duties of the class-room and the hospital, he
started off on long autumnal rambles, with a light heart,
a keen eye, and a ready pencil. His first vacation was
spent, as we have seen, in the Isle of Man, dredging its
bays, searching its shores, and roaming over its valleys
and hills, with the new light and enlarged information
gained at college. Next autumn witnessed a greatly
more venturous feat in a trip to Arendah and a pilgrim
age through part of Norway, --the first of his foreign tours.

    It was towards the close of the session 1832-33 that

Forbes and his fellow-student, the present Principal of the
University of Aberdeen, after a conversation on Inglis'
(Derwent Conway) Norway, etc., resolved to visit Nor
way during the ensuing summer. The voyage could
easily be made, for every summer saw many timber-
vessels from Norway in the ports of Man, and it was
accordingly arranged that Mr. Campbell should spend a
204  MEMOIR OF                           CHAP. VIII.

Bhort time with Forbes in the island, and then start with

him for the north.

     By daybreak, on Monday, 27th May 1833, the brig
" Patientia," of Arendal, had weighed anchor and sailed
out of the port of Ramsay. Her two passengers, Forbes
and his friend, had carefully equipped themselves for a
scientific tour, by gleaning what they could learn as to
the natural history of the region to be visited, and by
taking with them a supply of botanical paper, boxes,
hammers, etc., and a goodly store of natural history
information. Thus furnished, they began their observa
tions from the time they stepped on board. Gurnards,
awks, gulls, solan geese, medusae, isopoda, grampuses,
porpoises, and other inhabitants of the deep, were duly
chronicled on the first day of the voyage, and no oppor
tunity was lost, either by fishing-line, greased sounding-
lead, or gun,1 to gain new material for study. Adverse
winds kept them for a day or two beating about the
Irish Sea, but a freshening breeze from the south eventu
ally swept them pleasantly through the North Channel
into the Atlantic. The wild, bare island of Barra was

the first land sighted, and their course then lay through
the Minch, tacking between the chain of the Outer and
Inner Hebrides. But the mists lay thickly upon the
hills, and the outlines of the islands were seldom seen,

save when a favouring breeze lifted the curtain for a
little, and showed a lonely expanse of grey barren rock
and long in-running bays. Dunvegan Head stood out
faintly in the haze, and though Forbes strained his eyes

   >lie had not yet made the dredge his  though he had learned its use both in
fuvourite instrument of research, nl-    the Firth of Forth and in the Irish Sea.
1833.      EDWARD FORBES.  205

to recognise the vast basaltic cliffs of which he had

heard, and amid which lived his friend Donald Macas-

kill, nothing distinct could be traced. Steering across

the Minch, they skirted the coast of Sutherland, with

the wild sea of mountains which forms its background.

Wreaths of cloud still drifted along the sides of the hills,

or hung upon their summits ; but the sun shone out

brightly, and the chequered light and shadow flitting

across the landscape produced a powerful effect on the
imagination of the tourists. As they neared Cape

Wrath, however, the wind changed, and kept them

beating to and fro for several days ere they reached the

cliffs of Hoy. In this course they often approached the

shore near enough to make out the character of the

rocks. The horizontal sandstones of Caithness drew

their especial attention, and as Forbes sat watching the

coast-line--here a mass of tall crags, there a declivity
sloping gently to the sea-- he would fain have landed,

for " there," he thought, " would be the habitat of the

lovely and rare Primula Scotica, a plant whose fair
Ifeatures
           long to see holding a place amongst the

beauties of that vegetable harem, my herbarium."
    On the evening of Tuesday, 4th June, the wind had al

most died away, and the " Patientia " crept slowly through

a glassy sea towards Hoy Head. The night of the North
Sea in summer is like a lesser day, and hence, even at

midnight the huge cliffs of the Orkneys, with the colos
sal " Old Man of Hoy," stood out clear against the sky.

Under the lee of the island they waited the turning of

the tide, which rushes with fury through the Pentland
Firth. But after crossing to Stroma, they found them-*
206  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. VIII.

selves too late, and had to lie under sail on the west side

of that island until evening ebb. Forbes begged to be
allowed to land, and was permitted two hours on shore,
and so, while the tide ran foaming and raging through
the narrows, he employed himself in trying how far it
was possible in two hours to exhaust the natural history
of Stroma. The flat sandstone beds, evidently a part of

the series of Hoy on the one side, and Dunnet Head on
the other, presented few geological features of interest,
save the caves and tunnelled caverns worn out by the
Atlantic breakers. The ledges were crowded with sea-
fowl, and the captain of the brig, who had maintained
that the awk built its nest on tangle floating in the sea,
was sent for, that he might have ocular proof that the

bird preferred a safer and more stationary nestling-place.

They collected forty-seven species of plants, and Forbes
in his notes remarks, that " though he had not time to
make a complete catalogue, he still thought it worth
while to enumerate such as he met with, since, from the

situation of the island, at the northernmost part of Scot
land, any list, however imperfect, is of importance, as
illustrating the geographical distribution of British
plants." The entomological riches of the island were
not great ; no lepidoptera, the caterpillar of a phry-
ganea, five species of coleoptera, one of which he con
jectured " to be preyed upon by some other insect, as
under stones were great numbers of faded wing-cases."

At seven o'clock in the evening they set sail again, shot
past John o' Groat's House, Duncansby Head, and the

Skerries, with their two light-houses, and out into the
North Sea.
1833.  EDWARD FORBES.  207

     After beating about for two days, the wind veered to
the west, the sun shone out upon a sea, "than which,"
wrote Forbes, " never was sapphire more lovely in its

blue," and they dashed pleasantly onwards

                                " To Norroway, to Norroway,
                                       To Norroway, over the faem."

     During the night of Sunday, 9 th June, they passed
the Naze, and on getting on deck next morning, " the
coast of Norway lay before me," says Forbes, " and for

Ithe first time beheld a foreign land, with the bright

prospect of soon setting foot on it." Everything wore a
novel aspect, the thousand isles and interlacing fiords,
the endless undulations of the pine forests, the bare
rocky shores, without verdure or fields or fences, the
picturesque wooden houses nestling in an occasional
green hollow, or perched on some almost inaccessible
ledge, with the dark woods overhanging it and sweeping
away inland. Within a few miles of Arcndal a pilot
came on board, and guided them through the labyrinth
of channels into the fiord of Arendal. Of this fiord

IForbes writes, " Never did behold a more beautiful

scene, perhaps more beautiful to me since it was per
fectly new in every respect."

      Ten days were spent at Arendal. The owner of the
" Patientia," Mr. Hans Dedekam, an old correspondent
of Forbes's father, welcomed the young travellers to
Norway. Dinner-parties, excursions, botanical rambles,
strolls through the town, and boating in its fiords, fully
occupied the time, and Forbes's keen powers of observa
tion had ample scope both in the new natural history
world that was opening upon him, and not less in
208  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. VIII.

the new phases of dress, manners, and society, which
every day met his eye. Hence in his notes, notices of

plants, insects, minerals, and rocks, are interblended with
remarks upon the peculiarities of his breakfast, of his
hostess, the custom of bowing and hat-raising to every
one in the streets, the nature of Norwegian dinner-par
ties, dress of the peasants, etc. One costume struck
him as "extremely ridiculous. A hat with a worked

band and a very narrow brim is their head-dress ; but

the whimsicality is the jacket, which is very little more
than two sleeves connected together by a piece of em
broidered cloth peaked in front. Consequently, the
trousers are buttoned round their necks, so that they
look like a head with two legs and no body. Dandyism
amongst them consists in the shortness of the jacket."

      Among the excursions from Arendal was one to the
iron-works at Naes, a distance of about fourteen miles.

The journey was to be made in carioles, gigs seated for
one individual, but the precipitous look of the roads
determined Forbes to go on horseback, a mode of travel

ling, however, from which every one in vain endeavoured

to dissuade him. In his notes of this journey the iron
works are dismissed in a couple of lines, but he dwells

at greater length on a dinner-party where, to his sur

prise, the ladies and gentlemen sat on different sides,
and regaled themselves with a soup made of red currants
and sago, seasoned with raw salt-herrings, anchovies,
and pickled salmon, completing the meal by a slice of
lamb. He chronicles also having seen a copy of the

Flora Danica, where a plant which had puzzled him
was given as Convallaria bifolia ; but, he adds, " surely
1S.U EDWARD FORBES. 209

if a genus may be instituted, this should form the type
of a new one ; in no respect is it a Convallaria." Though

pressed to remain a day or two at Naes, they were " all
such figures with mud, etc., that they could not in
decency remain." Accordingly, they returned by the
same road, the precipitous character of which Forbes
shows in a rough sketch, where, down a pine-covered
declivity almost vertical, he and his companion are shoot
ing like avalanches after the guide and another cariole,
which, by the impetus of its descent, is still galloping
over the lower ground.

      On reaching Norway they had no settled route before
them, but this was soon arranged when they heard that
a steamer was about to sail northward along the coast.
On the afternoon of the 19 th June, after packing up the
plants and minerals collected during their rambles, and
bidding adieu to their Arendal acquaintances, they took
passage in the steamer " Constitutionen" for Bergen.
They chose this route, inasmuch as the vessel called at
every town on the way, and always remained in port at
night, so that they would thus have a favourable oppor
tunity of becoming acquainted with the maritime aspect
of the country. The deck was crowded with passengers,
among whom Forbes found M. Blytt, lecturer on Botany
in the University of Christiania, who, with one of his
students, was about to explore the botany of the coast
between Stavangcr and Bergen. Two nights and a day
were spent at Christiansand, the day in botanizing, and
the second evening in a visit to the theatre to hear " two
of the most famous Danish actors, Nilsen and Winslow."
The next day brought them past the Naze, along intri-

                                                       o
210  MEMOIR OF                            CHAP. VIII.

cate channels, and even through the centre of villages,

to Egersund, where they anchored for the night. The

ascent of a hill here satisfied Forbes that the vegetation
was now " decidedly (sub-)alpine," and as the flush of

sunset spread over the wide expanse of pine forest and

barren rock, he marked not a few of the hill-tops capped
with snow. At Stavanger they visited the old church,

had a fine view of the distant mountains, remarked that

the rock was chiefly gneiss with a little mica-slate, and

saw a large gneiss boulder which measured roughly

thirty paces in circumference, and above eighteen feet
in height. In the voyage from Stavanger the hills grew

higher and still barer as the vessel advanced northward ;

about mid-day the distant snow-fields of the Folgefonden

appeared in sight, and towards evening the travellers
" gladly, amidst great crowds and honours, landed in

Bergen, the largest city in Norway."
     The " crowds and honours" were due to the festivi

ties of St. John's day. The peasantry parading the

streets in every variety of costume afforded no little

merriment, but the tables were soon turned, for Forbes

Iadds, " C. and happening to have tartan trousers on,

we attracted a mob in no long time, and the people

seemed as much surprised at our dress as we were at

theirs." During the intervals of fair weather, botany

and conchology as usual filled up the hours ;1 some ex

cursions were also made, as to Lysfiord, and to the

country-seat of a merchant to whom they had letters of

introduction. After a stay of a week, they left Bergen

   i In one of his articles in the Mag.   tity of shell-sand which I found in a
AW. Hist, he says, "Amongst my Ber-
gun treasures I especially value a quan-  spitting-box in my lodgings," via. 305.
1SW. EDWARD FORBES. 211

on foot for Oos, about seventeen miles distant, with the

view of visitiug the glaciers of Bondhuus.

     The rough nature of the roads, and the increasing
weight of their knapsacks, made pedestrian travelling no

easy matter. " It was our first decided tramp under the

knapsack in Norway ; and what with our bags, and

hammers, and botanical boxes, and books, we were pretty

well loaded, not forgetting boards enclosing the paper to
dry our plants in."1 By dint of walking and boating,
however, they eventually arrived at Bondhuus. " We
proceeded," says Forbes, " on horseback without saddles

to the glacier, a distance of about seven miles, over a

most rugged country covered with immense masses of
rock flung down in all directions from the mountains ;

after crossing a lake formed by the melting of the ice,

we arrived at the glacier. The sight was most beautiful ;

the undulations of the ice of great height, and the lovely

blue colour from reflected light, presented a fine coup

d'ceil. This glacier forms part of Folgefond, but is dimin

ishing yearly, and twelve years ago was several hundred
yards from its present limits. Around amongst the
*i

                                                                 it,
rocks, were some fine cascades formed by the melting of

the snow above. At the foot of the glacier grew Ceras-

tium cdpinum and aquaticum, Silene rupestris, Saxi-

fraga stellaris and caespitosa, Phleum cdpinum."3

From Bondhuus they sailed up the Hardanger Fiord,

among huge cliffs plunging almost sheer down from the
region of perpetual snow into the quiet waters of the
fiord. They visited the Voring Voss, walked, climbed,

     Mag. Nat. Hist. ViiL 30fl.       years afterwards, conducted Professor
                                      James Forbes to tho glacier. -- Norway
      Their host at Bondhuus was the  and it* Glaciers, p. 134.
same John Bondhuus who, eighteen
212  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. VIII.

boated, botanized, and every day were soaked with rain.

On Sunday, the 7th July, Forbes writes :--" Our clothes

had been soaked through in our knapsacks, and we had
no dry change, our paper was soaked with water, and
our plants were rotting in our boxes. The clothes we
had on had not been quite dry for five days running,

Iand yet, through Providence, we are quite well, and

myself was never in better health. Accordingly, we
prepared to rest ourselves for a day. After putting up

my plants, I took a stroll around Graven, and found

Circcea alpina growing in a neighbouring wood." These
botanical notes come in often in a characteristic way.

Tired, wet, or hungry, he yet must needs turn aside to
gather something for his herbarium, and sometimes in

describing the most magnificent scenery he suddenly
drops into a quiet parenthesis that Silene rupestris, or
Origanum vulgare, grows on the rocks of the neighbour
hood. Crossing the mountainous country between the
Hardanger and the Sogne Fiords, they ascended to the
head of the Lyster Fiord, whence their route lay across
the vast snowy range of the Sogne Field. This was a
journey of no little difficulty ; and to accomplish it in
safety they had to forego their usual mode of pedestrian
travelling, and cross the mountains on horseback. " On
one occasion," says Dr. Campbell in reference to this
journey, " we were waiting for horses, and were in danger,
a rare danger among the worthy Norwegians, of being
hustled and ill-used by some half-drunken boors return
ing from a market, from whom, as it was raining in
torrents, we could not escape. Forbes's talent as a

draughtsman stood us in good stead. Snatching up a
1813.  EDWARD FORBES.  213

  piece of chalk, he sketched with great rapidity on the
  door of the inn striking caricatures of one or two noisy
  fellows who had just left the party, and changed the
   rudeness of the others into good-humoured laughter and

   civility."

         The change from pedestrianism to horsemanship
   proved in the end productive of an unforeseen diificulty.
   On descending into the valleys leading into the rich dis
  trict of Gulbransdal, they found that they had neglected
  to change a sufficient amount of English sovereigns at
   Bergen. Their Norwegian money had now begun to

  fail. In vain they tried to reimburse themselves at Lomb :
  they were told that there would be little chance of suc

   cess before reaching Lillehammer, a journey of about one
   hundred and twenty English miles, to meet the expenses
   of which their common fund of available cash amounted

. to five shillings sterling. Forbes thus describes the first

  day's travel under these straitened circumstances :--
     "July 14. -- Our cash after paying our bill, which

   amounted to two marks, was only about five English
  shillings. With a sad prospect, a fine morning, and a
  heavy load on our backs, we departed from Lomb, and

  walked (I must confess rather dull) along the side of its

  beautiful hike. Our dinner was but scanty, consisting
  of some slices of bread, and a little piece of dried beef
   which we had pocketed from breakfast. Towards night
  fall we began to think of a bed, and, in order to save our
   cash for the high road, we prepared to rest in the open
  air, and built a hut of sticks to shield us from the dew.

  ISupperless we went to bed, if may so call the spreading

  out of our boards, knapsacks, etc. ; it was rather cold,
214  MEMOIR OF  CIIAP. VIII.

but we contrived to have a little sleep for about two and
a half hours, when we arose about one o'clock in the

morning to proceed on our journey until the sun should
heat the air, when we proposed to conclude our sleep."

      They gained the post road to Christiania near Froen,
and by dint of rigid economy and resolute walking
reached Lillehammer on the evening of the fifth day,
having walked, heavily laden, about twenty-four miles a

day. At one stage they begged a night's lodging from
the parish priest, but were directed, in bad Latin, to pro

ceed two miles farther to the inn. Thither, accordingly,
they trudged with gloomy anticipations ; the innkeeper,
however, received them kindly, and the day following a
captain in the Norwegian army carried their baggage to
the next stage. On entering Lillehammer they had only
twelve skillings (fivepence farthing) left, but speedily
replenished their stock by exchanging three English
sovereigns. Remaining a day or two at that town to
recruit, they again started off, and in three days reached
Christiania. Here they found their boxes waiting them
from Arendal, and they were thus able to doff the " tar
tans" and " appear in clothes without holes."

     The first day at Christiania was spent in making
calls. In the evening they went with Professor Rathke
to the Botanic Gardens. Forbes criticises their arrange

ment, and remarks upon the defectiveness of the Herba
rium, and the want of care in the selection both of plants
and paper. " There is one thing wanting," he says,
" namely, a good collection of Norwegian plants." Seve
ral natural history excursions, varied by rambles through

the city, a visit to the Storthing, dinner-parties, and con
IS33. EDWARD FORBES. 215

versations with some of the Professors, altogether made

the sojourn at Christiania a very pleasant one.

     Dr. Campbell has furnished the following incident of

Ithe sojourn in Christiania :--" remember," he says,

" one morning being awakened very early by a low

Imurmuring noise -- a strange unearthly chanting. On

opening my eyes beheld Forbes, in the grey dawn, half

dressed, swaying himself backwards and forwards in a

chair, and pouring forth in cadence with the motion of his

body a stream of octo-syllabic verses, which had a mingled

savour of Scott and Tennyson, in the form of an address

to some fairy of his imagination. The occasion was too
Igood to be lost.
                       gave no sign of being awake, and

stuffing my mouth stealthily with the bed-clothes, listened

in breathless attention until the unmeaning extravagance

of the sentiment, and the desperate efforts of the impro-

visatorc to conform, without stopping, to the exigencies

of rhyme and metre, brought on me an uncontrollable

fit of laughter. As happens at cock-crowing, Forbes's

fairy vanished, the Canto came abruptly to an end, and

after his confusion had subsided, we laughed together

over the occurrence."

After remaining a week at Christiania they proceeded

onwards to Copenhagen. Their route lay by Drammen
and Kongsberg, where they remained to see the silver

mines, to Hobnestrand. Thence the packet conveyed

them to Gottenborg, where they spent a few days sight
seeing and making excursions. From Gottenborg the
steamer carried them through the Cattegat past Elsinore,
which Forbes declared to be " no more like Castle Bushen

in Man (to which it had been compared) than a dpg is
216            MEMOIR OF  CHAP. VIII.

like a donkey." On the evening of the 14th August,

they landed at Copenhagen.
     This city, with its wide squares and numerous

public buildings, palaces, churches, picture-galleries,

museums, parks, rampart promenade, and many other

objects of interest, seems to have delighted the artistic

eye of Forbes. Here he met Hornemann the botanist,
and went over the Botanic Garden and Library. An

excursion to the country-seat of an acquaintance in the

city enabled him to see a little of the country around.

After a few days spent in Copenhagen and the neigh
bourhood, they proceeded to Elsinore, to take their
passage in vessels bound for England. . Forbes secured
a berth in one which was about to sail for Hull, his

companion in one for Leith. The wind being unfavour

able they employed themselves in visiting the castle of

Kronberg, botanizing by the way. Leaving Forbes on

a hill-side, Mr. Campbell returned to make some pre

parations for their departure. The wind had changed,

vessels were getting ready to sail, and he had only time

to hurry on board, and despatch a messenger for Forbes.

It was too late, however. Forbes got back in time to

catch his own vessel, but the other had sailed, and the

fellow-travellers did not meet again for eighteen years.
     In a letter written by Forbes to Mr. Campbell after

his return to the Isle of Man, he thus describes the
               " Of course you got your share of that
:-voyage home

dreadful storm which is said to have destroyed one-fifth

of the East of England shipping. We were just cutting

the stick, but, thanks to Providence, arrived safe at port,

as you may guess when you see this letter. One tre
1833.        EDWARD FORBES.                 217

mendous sea was nearly sinking us, but, luckily, carried

away the bulwarks, which accident saved us. Captain

Wilson was washed overboard, but was miraculously

saved by catching hold of a cable, one-half of which
was also floating. The mate was washed into the cabin,

and I was set afloat in my berth. After that not a man

could stand on the deck by himself ; they all got hold of

the rigging and stood there, and the helm was lashed,
Iand a little sad only was flying.
                                            got my head above

the door to see the storm, and heard the consoling ob

servation that the ship could not live in such a sea. A

body and many pieces of wreck which floated by, told

a sad tale of some.
     " But melancholy, avaunt 1 and now for the pleasures

of the voyage. Few must be the pleasures in such

weather, but there was one, and that was good fare.
We had roast ducks in the worst of the storm, and a

rice-pudding when the sea threatened to swallow us up ;

and the captain and cook seemed determined that we

should not go to heaven with empty stomachs. For my
Ipart, thank God, had an excellent appetite. The
Icaptain, too, and his mate, and,
                                            believe, the whole

crew, were all staunch Tories, which was another com

fort.1 It was on the Thursday morning after we started

that we gladly and thankfully saw the shores of " Merrie

England" again. But shipwrecks strewed them like

sea-weeds."

     The botanical results of               this Norwegian tour were

   ' The democratic spirit, 60 wide spread  supplant the love of science and abstract
at the time of the Reform Bill, which       truth by a spirit of utter utilitarianism,
seemed to Forbes about to subvert all       had impressed his mind with a strong
that was most intimately associated         conservative feeling, which he retained
with the greatness of Britain, and to       to the close of his life.
218  MEMOIR OF  CIIAP. VIII.

written out eighteen months afterwards, and published

in short papers in the Magazine of Natural History for

1835-36. These are remarkable chiefly as indicating
a habit of close observation, and a considerable acquaint
ance with specific forms, and, above all, an ardent, en

thusiastic love of the science. We can mark, however,

that Forbes's mind was beginning to dwell on the geo
graphical distribution of plants, and that these rambles
were paving the way for that enlarged philosophy
of distribution developed in his later writings.

     The summer of 1834 appears to have been mainly
spent in dredging the Irish Sea, and continuing the
exploration of the botany, zoology, and geology of the
Isle of Man. The results of the dredgings were given in

the Magazine of Natural History for the following year.1
Ten days in the early part of August were passed in

North Wales, and in that excursion, of which some

meagre jottings occur in one of his note-books, Forbes
appears to have done little else than botanize. Old
castles, lakes, hill-tops, and fine scenery, were visited as
they happened to come in his way, but his main object
was to gather as many of the rarer plants as he could.
His notes consist chiefly of lists of the species collected.
No occasion was lost, and many a plant was noticed
and chronicled while driving rapidly along on the mail.
His zeal, indeed, rises to a climax at the last, for we

find that on the evening preceding the only remaining
day he had to spend in Wales, he resolved to start next
morning, at four o'clock, by the mail to Holyhead, to
get some of the rare plants found there. He was cspc-

                       i Mag. XaU Ilisi., Ser. 1., vni. 68, 591 ; ix. 191.
1835.  EDWARD FORBES.  219

cially anxious to obtain Cistus guttatus, " But, after a
heavy stroll up cliff and down cliff, and over the hill in

Iall directions, found nothing ! ! ! and set off to Bangor

with a heavy heart and a long walk of twenty-six miles
before me, in addition to my ramble of eight at the
least." The failure of his journey, however, did not
abate the keenness of his botanical vision, for, in the
next sentence, he mentions that in that weary tramp
to Bangor he found by the road-side Butomus umbellatus,
Lepidium Smithii, and Sparganium simplex. And so,
with well-filled boards, he sailed again to the Isle of

Man, where he appears to have remained until-- towards
the close of October-- he set out for Edinburgh to com

mence his fourth year at college.
      The summer of 1835 Forbes employed in a tour

through France, Switzerland, and Germany, and gained
thereby more natural history information, and achieved
more original results than any of his previous excursions

had yielded. In the early part of June in that year

he started for Paris, and remained there three weeks.

The notes which he made of this sojourn contain many
criticisms of the public buildings, palaces, churches,
sculpture, paintings, etc., along with some enthusiastic
encomiums on the Jardin des Plantes. On the second
day of his visit we find him quitting his sight-seeing
to start off with Jussieu and his botanical class for a
two days' ramble round Mont Morenci. Forbes's eye,
keener than ever, seemed to detect, almost intuitively,
every rarer species, whether of plant or insect, and the
contrast between this quickened power of observation
and that of his French companions seems to have struck
220                MEMOIR OF                   CHAP. VIII.

even himself, for he concludes his notes of the excursion
by remarking that " the French students are apparently

but poor botanists, though fond of and though theya
have such opportunities." He made one or two otherit,

botanical excursions from Paris, accompanied by some;

of his old college friends who were studying there at the
time. But his delight was to repair to the Jardin des

Plantes, and pore for hours together over the specimens
in the Museum, and some of the volumes in the Library.
On the 16 th he writes :--" Spent the day at the Library
of the Jardin des Plantes, consulting Ferussac, etc.
                                               is,

                                                              ;
every book being at one's service. The Museum after
the Louvre, the finest thing in Paris. Every part be

speaks the hand and head of Cuvier everything in

order and approaching perfection, especially the fishes,

which must be the finest set in the world -- the birds

also.  revelled principally among the molluscs, and
it
saw many which had long wished to see, such as the
      I
Trichotropis, the Magelus, etc. Hour after hour passes1
         Iaway there without perception. In the evening went
                Ito the Tuileries." Again, on the 19 th, he says, " studied

in the library of the Museum, and in the Museum itself

all the day, chiefly consulting Ferussac's great work,
and following up his illustrations in the collection.

The more  see of the Museum, the more admirable

appears." On the 23d, he feels that he ought to be

setting out for Switzerland, but lingering wish toa
finish his inspection of the Museum and the Louvre
keeps him still in Paris, and so the whole of that day

was spent in the Museum and Library. The results of

these days of continuous study are partly apparent in
1835.              EDWARD FORBES.                                         221

the copious extracts at the end of his note-book, from

some of De Blainville's papers on the Molluscs*, Drapar-
naud's Mottusques terrestres et jluviatiles de la France,

with sketches of the species, several pages of extracts
from Menke's Synopsis Meihodica, and quotations from

Leach, Zool. Jour. vol.                   These notes, of course, re
          a
                                 ii.
present also careful inspection of the genera and species
as displayed in the Museum. We shall see in sub          a
sequent chapter how strongly these days at the Jardin
des Plantes impressed Forbes with the educational ada
vantages of Paris to student of Natural History, and
how materially they influenced his own subsequent

career.

     Having " bought a knapsack of the best quality, and
stocked himself with Paludina achatina, and Neretina

litloralis, also with Carabus auratus, the commonest and

most beautiful insect about Paris," he completed his col

is ilectionsbotanicsil excursion to the islands of the

              bySeine, "a capital day's work." Next day he obtained
                    a
his passports, took his place in the diligence for Dijon,a
" spent the greater part of the day in the Library," and
                        of
started off on the following morning (3d July) on his
                   I
way to Geneva.

     He remained day at Dijon, botanizing among the
surrounding hills. He says, "Unfortunately have no
                                                         I
                                                                   II
guide at present to identify the beautiful plants

gathered, not one  which knew."1 In Conchology,

was exceedingly fortunate, finding the Cyclostoma macu-

The italics arc his own. It may           scientific names arc especially indistinct,

be remarked, once for all, that Forbes's  being sometimes hardly more than one

handwriting, even at this early period,   or two letters connected by  a  steno

sometimes scarcely legible.  The          graphic dash.
222  MEMOIR OF                           CHAP. VIII.

lata of Drapamaud, with Pupa    , and Glausilia              .

IIn Entomology found but little." On the evening of

the 7th, he arrived at Geneva.

     With some English fellow-travellers he sailed up the

lake, and, baggage on back, started for Martigny, a walk

of twenty four miles, from the effects of which he suffered

next day. His route then lay up the picturesque valley

of the Rhone to Sion, whence he diverged to the left,

crossing the mountain range by the pass of Gemmi, and
noting on the way " many good insects, plants, and shells,

and very splendid scenery." At the little inn of Schwar

enbach, he parted company with the tourists, and re

mained two days "botanizing, and got many of the

rarest plants of Switzerland." In the ascent of the

mountains he had kept a constant eye on " the progress

of Alpine vegetation," and in the journey down to Inter-

laken, he particularly directed his attention to the vertical
range of the land shells. Under date " 14th July, " he

records the species noticed, and on the opposite page

gives a rough diagram of the Alps, with the comparative

heights at which the species occurred. These data were

afterwards expanded into a separate paper,1 the earliest

of his writings in which he has shown his love for an

arrangement of the organic productions of land and sea,

in distinct zones, according to their recession from the

sea-level. From Interlaken he visited the Grindelwald,

which he thought less beautiful than the glacier of Bond-
huus in Norway ; then Lauterbrunnen, where he pro
cured some insects, and saw " decidedly the most
picturesque place in Switzerland." Returning to Intcr-

     ' Mag. ZaA. and Rot. 1837, I. 257.
1835.           EDWARD FORBES.                    223

lakcn, he crossed the Lake of Thun, and so down the

valley of the Aar to Berne, where he remained for a

week with an English friend who had a farm near the

town.

       From Berne he returned, with some Swiss botanists,

to Inteilakcn, ascended the Faulhorn, and obtained there

some of the rarest plants of the Alps. He also found

many Alpine insects, and fixed the limits of Cyclas as

the highest bivalve (7000 feet). On the 21st, he went
to Aarau, to attend the meeting of the Helvetic Society,

a gathering of scientific men like our own British Asso
ciation. There he met " the excellent botanist, Smidt,

and many other eminent men." From Aarau his route

by diligence lay by Basle, Freyburg, and Carlsruhe to

Heidelberg, a journey which, as he makes no notes of
                a
                                                             is
                                                             it,
save few cursory headings, he seems to have continued
       a
without intermission. One incidental notice of the
             :
journey, however, and the longest of the number,      as

follows -- " Naturalists and philosophers the same at
Aarau as at every other place --good eaters and drinkers."

Heidelberg detained him day, spent partly in sight

seeing, partly in writing home, and partly, of course, in
botanizing in the suburbs. He there "procured the

excellent critical catalogue of German or rather European
plants by Reichenbach." His journey down the Rhine

from Mayence was somewhat hurried with the scenery;
he was " on the whole disappointed." Descending as

rapidly as the mud-banks would allow, his "whole
amusement consisting in the fellow-passengers, in the

few specimens of thorough Dutchmen who now and then

came ou board, striking aground, and catching fish," he
224  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. VIII.

arrived in Rotterdam, whence, after sticking twenty-four
hours on a Dutch mud-bank, he reached London in the

beginning of August.

    It is time now to return to where the narrative was

dropped at the end of the sixth chapter.
                     CHAPTER IX.

        HIS FIRST YEARS AS A PROFESSED NATURALIST.

     The spring of 1836 saw Edward Forbes finally re
nounce medicine, and devote himself formally to the
study of nature. Released from the ties that, had re
strained him so long, he was free to choose his own
course, and his thoughts at once adverted to the Jardin
des Plantes, where he had spent so many delightful hours
in the summer of the previous year, and to which he
had inwardly resolved to return at the first opportunity.
Accordingly, he arranged that the following winter should
be spent in Paris. Till then he employed himself partly
in what he calls " an oineromathic mission" to his friend
Macaskill in Skye, partly in a trip to Bristol, to attend
a meeting of the British Association, and lastly, in a
sojourn of a few weeks at the Isle of Man. The note
book which he kept during the tour to the Hebrides
is a meagre, and often hardly-legible, series of jottings
of scenery, inns, and botanical localities, with some
verses on Linnhe Loch, and numerous rough pencil
sketches of old castles, lakes, and hills ; also many
female faces, a fair damsel rescued by " an oineromath"
from the grasp of a giant, interblended with the outlines
of fishes, mollusca, and trap-dykes. Of this journey he

                                                                V
226                   MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IX.

writes to Dr. Percy, "Bad weather caused it to be a
failure, so far as botany went." In the same letter he

adds, " In August I went to the meeting of the British

Association at Bristol, and was much pleased, meeting

with much kindness, and making many most valuable
Iscientific friends.
                      picked up two or thrce tolerable

plants about Bristol."
    He left the Isle of Man about the close of November,

and set out for Paris, with the view of spending the

winter there among the classes and collections of the
Sorbonnc and of the Jardin des Plantes.

    Unfortunately the details of his Paris life are but
scantily preserved. The only account of this winter
which it has been possible to recover is contained in a

letter from Forbes to his father, which runs as follows :

                                       " Hotel dr Couneille, Paris, 11th Dec. 1836.

    "My dear Father, -- Since I arrived here I have

been in very good health. In general the change of

diet and manner of living does not agree so well with

British students in their first month or so. The day
after I wrote to you, I took rooms in the hotel from
which I direct this letter, for which I pay forty-five
Ifrancs a month.
                  am in the students' quarter, and in

the midst of the colleges and lecture-rooms on the left
Ibank of the Seine.
                      am on the look-out, however, for
Ia, pension or boarding-house, where might live more

comfortably and cheaper, though a good one on this side

Iof the river is very difficult to be found. Since arrived
here I have met with several acquaintances, formerly

fellow-students at Edinburgh, who arc equally puzzled

as to the best way of residing here. The worst of living
1838.           EDWAHD FORBES.                                      227

             is,
                          a

                                                         it
                                                                                                  ;

                                                                   is
                                                                                         a
in lodgings  that however wet the day may be, you

must walk out to get cvcry meal (except breakfast in

my case, though, in general, that must be taken in

cafe also), often to considerable distance and, after

trying many places and many ways,                                   impos

sible to get a dinner under from thirty-two sous to

two francs, without running the risk of eating unwhole

some food.

     " My daily and weekly occupations are as follows --

on Monday and Thursday have no lectures to attend,
       is

           I
                   I
                          I
which very convenient, as the Natural History Library
and the Museum of the Jardin des Plantes are open for
study on those days as well as on Saturdays. On Tues
days and Saturdays have Natural History and Com

parative Anatomy1 lectures to attend. On Wednesday

and Friday have geological and mineralogical classes.

The lecturers here do not, as in Edinburgh, confine them

selves to one hour, but lecture at will, generally from

one hour and a half to two hours.  I                                understand the

lectures thoroughly, and, in general, all French con

versation, but further than asking questions and express

ing my wants, cannot speak the langutige with anyI

facility as yet. My difficulty lies in not being able to
construct sentences quick enough, and not in the pro

nunciation. Several of my student friends here, how

ever, speak French as fluently as they speak English,
and one of them has just been appointed to a botanical

lectureship in college lately established at Comincs in
i
                              a

                                                               is,
the French Pyrenees. His salary                                     to be sure, very

     Do Hlaiuvillc at the Sorbonne, nuil GcolTroy-Saiut-IIihiire at the Jardin des
Plantcs.
228  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IX.

small -- (between £30 and £40 a year) ; but the oppor
tunity of discovery, and the facilities the district affords

to the naturalist, being comparatively unexplored, more
than compensate for the extent of remuneration.

     "The weather here has prevented my making any
geological excursions as yet ; for, though warm- --as warm
indeed as our autumn -- it has been very wet, and it is
next to impossible to walk in the country in France in

Iwet weather ; but, as soon as the frost comes, expect

a rich harvest, as the geology of the neighbourhood of
Paris is probably the most interesting in Europe, being
peculiar and unique, and the rocks, even at the very
gates of the city, abound in rare and beautiful fossils.
The river has been so swollen, in consequence of the
late rains, as to overflow its banks, and inundate all

the lower part of Paris, so that the inhabitants of that
quarter communicate with each other by means of
boats. Much damage has been done, and the country
beyond Paris to the west is like a great lake."

     Having completed the winter course at the Jardin

des Plantes, he planned a trip by Perpignan through
the south of France, and left Paris at noon on the 21st

of April. Of this tour there is .a record in a small

duodecimo note-book, each day's doings being meagrely

and often illegibly jotted down, as if the writer had

dashed them off in the most urgent haste with the point
of a skewer.

     From Paris he took diligence southwards by Auxerre
and Chalons to Lyons, botanizing on the way when the
steepness of the road allowed the passengers an oppor
1836.                  EDWARD FORBES.                      229

tunity to walk. Taking the steamer he sailed down the

Rhone to Avignon, thoroughly enjoying the scenery of

that river, which he was inclined to rank higher than

that of the Rhine. In the southward journey he had

noted the gradual change of vegetation, and now he

Iexclaims, " find myself truly in the land of the cypress

and myrtle, the olive and the vine, for here they are all

in profusion." Again, "Vaucluso is a singularly wild
spot, and worthy of Petrarch -- the rocks bare and bold,

the font a miniature lake, clear as crystal and tinted

like the sapphire. The water appears in a mysterious

manner, as the poet would deem coming in quantities
                             it,
from the rocks without betraying its passage. Therea
                                                       a
inspiration about Vaucluse.                                     is
       " There
                ; is  also natural history. Plants unknown

to me abound euphorbias of many forms, many novel

species which had never gladdened my sight before, and

the genus of which to me was but guess. But there

was not one daisy there."

       After spending  a  week in the south of France,

visiting the towns and other objects of interest, had
                                                       it

been his intention to proceed thence to Perpignan with

Mr. Giles Munby, one of his old fellow-students at Edin

burgh. On the morning of the 30th, however, he found,

at the poste restante of Montpellier,  letter from his
                                       a
                                                    a
friend, announcing his inability to proceed. This wholly

deranged our naturalist's plans. Whilst revolving in his

mind what route to take, Dr. Lumsden,                  medical

student from Paris, who knew him by name, but who

was unknown to Forbes, chanced to make his appear

ance. After a short conversation, the two travellers
230  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IX.

made common cause, and agreed to go either to Algiers
or Corsica.

     Visiting Arles and Marseilles by the way, they
reached Toulon, and found there Dr. Otth, a Swiss

naturalist, who had been a fellow-traveller with Forbes

to Avignon. He was likewise bound for Algiers, so that,
on the morning of the 7th May, the three travellers set
sail in company for the shores of Africa, in a French
war-steamer, crowded with troops and officials. On the
afternoon of the next day they reached Port Mahon in
Minorca, the half-way resting-place, and remained there
over night. Forbes was charmed with the novel and
almost eastern aspect of the architecture, the picturesque
dress of the natives, the variety of shipping in the ports,

and the strange towering windmills that everywhere met
the eye, each rising out of a dense thicket of cactus, with

here and there a palm, --plants that gave a truly exotic

character to the landscape, and were now for the first
time seen as indigenous by Edward Forbes.

    A night and a day on the Mediterranean brought

the vessel far on her way. On the morning of the 10th,
the high snow-capped range of Mount Atlas came in

sight, and then slowly the coast of Algeria revealed its
narrow strip of richly cultivated ground, which, ending
off abruptly but a few miles from the town, told only
too pLainly of the wild lawlessness of the interior. Then
came the port of Algiers itself, with its crowds of eager
boatmen, its Babel-like confusion of tongues, its endless
variety of costumes,-- Moors, Turks, Arabs, Negroes,

Greeks, and Europeans, -- naval, military, and civil.
     From the 10th of May to the 10th of June, Forbes
ma                  EDWARD FORBES.                        231

remained in Africa. He made many excursions through

the town of Algiers, and into the territory around as
                                                          I
well as eastward by steamer as far as Bougia, visiting        I it,

mosques, synagogues, bazaars, cafds -- Moors, Jews, Arabs,
Bedouins --and never omitting, at the same time, an

opportunity of noting the natural-history features of the

country. They met with no adventure worthy of note,

and saved their purses and their heads among the bands

of Arabs whom they encountered.

    On the 10 th of June, Forbes left Algiers, and reached

Paris on the 29th.  On getting there he wrote to his
father --
    I
           :

                                        I
    " arrived here two days ago from my southern tour,

having spent more time in Africa than intended.

returned by way of Toulon, Marseilles, the Basses Alpes,

Grenoble, and the mountains of Dauphin^, -- all very

interesting localities to the naturalist, and in which

places made many acquisitions both in botany and
    I

                       it,

                     I
                        I
zoology. At Marseilles      found the money.              was

much in want of as had run short in consequence

of an unfortunate accident which met with at Bougia
                            I

(which place also visited while in Africa), having lost
six Napoleons in Moorish well while botanizing, and
    I

              a

having been at the same time in great danger of losing

myself along with them. But though my voyage to

Africa has been expensive, hope                        has been anything
I
                   I
                        I

                                                    a

                                              it
but unprofitable, since have not only got a great stock

of new specimens, but collected number of new facts

in natural history, which, when embodied into papers,

will, expect, gain mo much respect from the scientific

men of England.
232  MEMOIR OP                                  CHAP. IX.

     I" In point of health, think I am much the better of

my tropical tour, the climate having agreed with me

perfectly, and no accidents having happened in the way
Iof Bedouins, etc. shall not fill this letter with parti
Iculars, as expect to be with you myself on Friday
Iweek, or at farthest on Saturday.
                                    shall remain here

till Thursday, in order to take some notes in the libra

ries for my papers on the natural history of Algiers,

etc., and then return by way of Boulogne and London,

Iat which latter place mean to remain two or three

days, to call on my scientific friends there, several of
I Iwhom know only by correspondence.
                                           have money

enough by me to bring me home, and to purchase some

Ibooks here which want, and which cannot be easily

procured on the other side of the water."

     The scientific results of this tour in Algiers were

printed in the Annals of Natural History, vol.
     ;                                                                                 250.

                                      is a
                                                        a
                                                                a

                                                                     ii.
                                                                                 ; p.
In brief, he had obtained forty-five species of land and

fresh-water molluscs, chiefly in the vicinity of the city of

Algiers and the town of Bougia. Of these, seven species

were new, and described for the first time by Forbes

himself other two species (Umax) he did not name.
     The autumn of this year appears to have been spent

in his accustomed pursuits at the Isle of Man and

when winter set in, he repaired once more to Edinburgh,

where he enrolled himself as literary student.

     The winter of 1837-38 memorable in the annals

of the University of Edinburgh for series of snow-ball

riots which were only finally quelled by detachment of

the 79 th Regiment of foot. The defiance of all consti

tuted authorities, more especially of the Town Councillors,
1S37-3S.  EDWARD FORBES.                233

who held the anomalous position of patrons of the Uni

versity, was no new thing to the Edinburgh youth. It

had shown itself at intervals during the course of more
than two centuries, and, at least on one occasion, resulted
in bloodshed and death. In the year 1595, owing to an
interference of the Corporation, the boys of the High
School rose up in open rebellion, barricaded themselves
in the school, and refused to surrender until their claims

were recognised. The head-master supported his pupils,
but he was "borne down and abused by the Council,
who never understood well what privilege belonged to
that charge."1 One of the bailies named Macmorran,
headed a party with the design of bringing the youths
to reason by force ; but after being warned off, he was

shot dead by a pistol-ball from the school -- a result

which terrified the insurgents and brought the revolt

to an end.

     In October 1611, the Scottish Privy-Council thought
it necessary to issue an order restraining the students of

the Edinburgh College who " has taen and takes the
bauldness to misknow the Principal and Regents, and to
debord in all kind of uncomely behaviour and insolencies
no wise seemly in the persons of students and scholars."2

In 1680-81, the students threw the good town into not
a little excitement by burning the Pope in effigy, and
were shrewdly suspected of having afterwards had some
concern in burning the house of the Provost.

     When, therefore, in the beginning of 1838, a simple

   i Patrick Anderson's Hint. Scot, in   i' l'rivy- Council Record, quoted l>y
ms. Adv. Lib., quoted l>y Chambers,
Domestic Ann. fkot. i. 261.             Chambers, lib. HI. 135.
234  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IX.

 snow-ball " bicker" merged into a bold and determined

opposition to police and patrons, it only followed the

usual course of such displays, where the customary inter
 ference of the civic authorities tends to magnify a mere
 academical exercise into a serious public riot. The oc
currence seems to deserve notice in this Memoir, not so

much from its own interest as from the fact that it kept
Edward Forbes busy for some weeks, furnishing ample
material for his pen in prose, verse, and lithographic

sketches.

      Snow had fallen thickly on the evening of the 1 Oth
January. Next morning the street in front of the Col
lege was thronged with boys and idlers, who began a
short and comparatively trifling disturbance by throw
ing snow-balls at the students going to and from their
classes. The snow-balling recommenced with greater
fury in the afternoon, but it was eventually quelled, not,
however, until the students had learned to expect little
protection from the police, and possibly further annoy
ance from the populace. The following day, accordingly,
the disturbance began anew ; a body of police " sent for
the protection of the students" soon sided with the mob,
and there ensued a succession of Sallies from either side,

and hand-to-hand conflicts on the street and in the

porches of the College, which lasted for several hours.
Batons, sticks, stones, and snow-balls, were plied in all
directions, many severe wounds were inflicted, more
especially on the hats and heads of the police, until, at
last, matters seemed getting so serious that the Lord
Frovost and Bailies of the town thought themselves
called upon to send to the Castle for a detachment of
1S.18.     EDWARD FORBES.  235

soldiers.  The appearance of the red-coats and the

bayonets soon brought the riot to an end.

     In the course of the second day thirty-five students

had been arrested and marched to the Police-office with

singular violence and even brutality. Many, indeed,

were seized who had not been engaged in the tumults,
and though all were remanded to a future day, the pro
secution was finally directed against five only. Six

weeks passed away before a tiial could be arranged ; the

case was at last heard in the Sheriff-Court, occupied

three days, and terminated in a full and unqualified

acquittal.

    It need hardly be said that Edward Forbes was no

idle spectator of these scenes. His long person moved

about in the thickest of the throng, and, doubtless, many

of the most telling snow-balls were dealt out by his
arms. At one time during a rush by the police he nar

rowly escaped being caught. Rushing across the quad
rangle to the anatomical rooms, the kindly aid of the

class-servant enabled him to escape by a back- window

into the street, so that he does not appear as one of the

thirty-five prisoners, though doubtless quite as active a

warrior as any of them.

     But though he had thus failed to have his name
chronicled among the heroes of his Alma Mater, he lost

no time in evincing his sympathy with the captured, and
he becomes as conspicuous in the movements which fol

lowed as he had been in the affray. The students find

ing the trial of their comrades postponed, and that

matters threatened to take a more serious course than at

first seemed likely, held a meeting at which a committee
236  MEMOIR OF                               CHAP. IX.

was formed, with Forbes as chairman, having " full
powers to retain counsel, and adopt any other means
which might appear to them advisable for having the
whole affair properly elucidated." And, doubtless, to
the vigorous efforts made by this committee, and more
especially to their choice of Mr. Patrick (afterwards Lord)
Robertson as counsel for the accused, their triumph was
in a great measure due. Forbes himself was especially

active. It may be easily imagined that all this tumult

afforded excellent material for the Maga, which having
been discontinued for a session, had now been resumed

this winter ; and truly during the six weeks between the
disturbances and the trial, the material was most heartily
employed. The ancient enmity against the Town-Coun

cil blazed forth afresh.1 Nothing could possibly have
occurred more opportunely to show the incongruity of
that corporation enjoying the patronage of the University
than to find Provost and Bailies, without any concert or
correspondence with the professors, after only a short
interview with the students, and without any personal
attempt to control and disperse the rabble, quietly sitting
down to order a bevy of bayonets for the proper subju
gation of the youths of whom they were the patrons and

  i In a letter written at this time to his  against the patrons, that is, the Town.
friend, Mr. John Aiken, Forbes says,         Council of Edinburgh, who have the
"This session has been a most stirring       government of the University, much to
                                             the dissatisfaction of both students and
one at College, the students being most      professors. The thirty-seven [five] pri
active every way, both in learning and       soners are to be tried in a week or two ;
mischief. There has been some grand          the defence is conducted by a committee

sport and more ability displayed than        elected by the University, of which I am

at any other session I remember. Of          chairman, and, as fur as it lies in my
                                             power, the mailer shall not rest till the
course, you heard of the blow-up and         University Charier is placed on a better
rebellion of the students, but you must
                                             footing."
not believe the lying reports of the news
papers. The revolt was not against the
professors (who are all with us), but
1838.                EDWARD FORBES.                                                                  237

protectors. Forbes's pen held them up to weekly ridi
cule in the front of the Maga, and depicted their
countenances in ludicrous caricature on the final page.
The journal, indeed, breathes of nothing but " the late

war," and yet its limits were far from affording space for
the outburst of literary zeal. Squibs in all sorts of
rhyme and measure were printed in broad sheets, and
hawked about the streets. Of these, Forbes chronicles

six as his own. The best of them were afterwards col

lected by him and one or two associates, and reprinted
with a preface containing a whimsical account of the
riots in the style of the old Scottish chroniclers. They
appeared as a little pamphlet, under the seemingly peace
ful title of the University Snow-drop}

     But in the midst of all this excitement, Forbes con

tinued to work zealously at his natural history studies.

He writes to his friend Mr. Aiken on February 8this,
(that between the snow-balling and the trial), -- "As
for myself, am busy enough, though about anythingI
except Medicine. My little book on the Manx Mollusca

is  all printed  ;I  having corrected the last proof-sheets

about an hour ago."                                                          It  merely synopsis
      This was his first volume.                                                 It is

                                                                                                  a
of species, in little duodecimo of sixty-three pages,a
with three plates, and entitled, " Malacologia Monensis,

by Edward Forbes, For. Sec. B. S., President of the

Royal Physical Society, o. E. M.'"'                                              was dedicated to

Professor Jameson, " by his sincere admirer and attached

pupil." The addition to his name of the three mystic

     These riots are graphically described in letter from George Wilson to his brother
Dnniel. See his Life, pp. 111).123.
i
                                                                          a
238                     MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IX.

letters of the Brotherhood is eminently characteristic.
At this period, and indeed up to the time of his death,

when writing to any of the Brotherhood, he usually

signed his name with a triangle at the end, and often
began with an " o. E. M." in the corner ; nay, he even
requests a correspondent to " stick a big triangle " on

the direction of his letters.

     The summer of 1838 was spent on the Continent.

About the beginning of May he crossed to Antwerp,

whence he journeyed with a friend by Liege and Aix-la-

Chapclle to Frankfort.         He then set out alone for

Vienna ; but the rest of the journey is described by

himself in a letter to Dr. Percy. " From Frankfort I

went to Vienna, saw the lions at Vienna ; went through

Styria and Carniola to Trieste, seeing innumerable lions

on the way, the grandest of which was the great cave at
Adelsberg, -- a work of nature which beats all the cathe

drals in the world. At Trieste, I sat myself down to

naturalize ; but instead of devoting my time principally

Ito zoology, as originally intended, I devoted it mainly

to botany, and regularly studied all the plants of that

Icountry, --a country the richest ever met with in rare

and local species. Oh, my dear Percy, thy mouth would

have watered and thy fingers itched hadst thou seen

the rarities of Carniola in the plant way. Nevertheless,

trust that in a few months' time thou shalt handle their

dry carcasses, and adorn thy own herbarium with them.

1 collected about 3000 specimens, and about 300 and

odd species, almost all of which will, I expect, prove
new to Edinburgh herbariums. I have also had the

satisfaction of investigating the Polygalas and Violas
1W. EDWARD FORBES. 239

I Jmore fully than before, and confirming my British

species ; and bring with me acquin's Primula elatior,

a plant that never grew in Britain, and very distinct. I

owe much to my botanical companions, Tommasini and

Brasolotti, names familiar to every reader of Rcichen-
Ibach or of Koch.
                   returned home by Venice, Milan,

and the Simplon."

      The British Association met this year at Newcastle,
and Forbes read before it a paper " On the Distribution
of Terrestrial Pulmonifera in Europe,"1 which is interest

ing chiefly as it gives another indication of the early

tendency of his mind towards the study of the grouping

of plants and animals, and the laws by which that
grouping appears to be determined. He was intrusted

by the Association with the preparation of a report on

the distribution of the Pulmoniferous Mollusca of the

British Isles.

      From Newcastle he went to the Isle of Man, where
for a few weeks he " was diligently occupied naturaliz
ing," principally among the radiata and fishes. He
considerably increased the Manx Fauna, and in a letter
to his intimate friend, the late Mr. William Thompson
of Belfast, after enumerating these additions, he inti
mates his intention of drawing up a paper on the Manx
star-fishes. This he read before the Wernerian Society

in the following spring,1 and thereby paved the way for

his larger and more comprehensive monograph on the
British star-fishes. But he found time also for his

favourite amusement of scribbling squibs and verses, for

he writes to his botanical friend, Mr. W. H. Campbell, --

i Rep. Bril. Asa. 1838, Sect, p- H2.  1 Mem. U'er. Soc. vm.
240                      MEMOIR OF                         CHAP. IX.

I" have just commenced a new work, namely, ' Hookie

Walker, a Philosophical Romance.' It will be decidedly

the finest prose composition since the days of the Song
of Solomon."1

     In November he returned once more to Edinburgh,

to establish himself, to use his own phrase, as " a winter
resident in Auld Reekie," as he found the Isle of Man
" very unscientific." He gave this winter a course of
fifteen lectures on " The Natural History of the Animals

in the British Seas," before the Edinburgh Philosophical
Association. They commenced with an outline of the
system of classification and its basis, and after passing
upwards through the various grades of the British marine
fauna, terminated with a lecture on geographical distri

bution, and a general summary of the subject.

     By some mistake, the first lecture of the series had
been fixed several days earlier than that for which
Forbes was preparing ; and in a letter to his father he

Isays, " Guess my surprise when on arriving here found

my name placarded over the walls, as commencing my

course on Friday the 9th (last night). It put me terribly
out, as the lecture could not be put off ; and I have

worked from the moment of my arrival to the hour of

lecture, making diagrams, drawings, and begging, bor
rowing, and buying specimens for the introductory

Ilecture, as the boxes sent to Glasgow have not yet
arrived. Though greatly flurried, I lectured last night,

i It might be supposed that he was                         maJPwenhaaydtinl,eo"rwsPa"oosTptTarhthegeoeear,teiCmsFHoeboma,ro"aninlc,sg"e"WsPWu"uhrcoisWhlmot,astaoloaknpnpei,dch"rs'iMsceaaatclsBc.ar"rBiodiTngghiae,-e-

here only poking a sly joke at his friend ;

but  in his  place-book  hishe"hRaosmjoatntceed."  down
the  heads   of part of
                                                       It

wns to commence with a meeting of the
fools, Jack Pmlding, Pickle Herring,
1KB. EDWAIID FORBES.  241

I may say with perfect success, and to the entire satis

faction of my friends here, to an audience of between

200 and 300, though the night was extremely bad.
Among others Professor Graham [was present], a great
compliment, as the professors have hitherto made a
point of staying away from the lectures. Next Friday
I appear again."

      Christmas, with its short weeks of relaxation, found
Forbes in Fife with his friend and future colleague, Mr.
Goodsir. The interval was spent as usual, " naturaliz
ing," for even the short cold days of mid-winter yielded
some material to the naturalists. St. Andrews Bay
was strewn with the delicate Cydippc, cast ashore in a
recent storm. There were two species, both new, which
Forbes described shortly after in the Annals of Natural
History}

      The year 1839 thus actively ushered in, saw no
abatement of his zeal in the prosecution of natural his
tory. Indeed, some of his former employments had to
he abandoned, so earnestly did he devote himself to his

chosen line of study. In particular, the Maga, which

towards the end of the previous winter had closed " in
the midst, of splendour," was not resumed, much as its
preparation had occupied and amused him. Two similar
journals, indeed, had been started, but Forbes had no
connexion with either. His lectures, reports for the
British Association, papers for the Werncrian Society

and the Annals of Natural History, and the close ob

servation which these demanded, left him little leisure
for other matters. " For my own part," he writes to

                                i Ann. nnd Mag. Ifal. Hist. HI. 145.

                                                                          Q
242                     MEMOIR OF                                                       CHAP. IX.

                                   "I find one science, that of
Dr. Percy (February     1),

                                      it
Nature, enough now, and study                                   with a view to the

development of the laws of species, of the laws of their

distribution, and of the connexion between the phy

sical and mental development of creatures. In litera

ture, am as usual scribbling bad verses and locking
     I

them up. You will laugh at me, dare say, for what
                                   I
                                            I

                                                          a
you will call trifling, but may be poet yet, who

knows."

     Of the verses which he wrote in these student days,

there are still enough extant to form several volumes.

They are in all varieties of rhyme and rhythm, and on

all manner of subjects. About the year 1835-6, not                                      a

few are " oineromathic," and celebrate the glories of the
mystic union of " love, learning, wine." Of these, the
                     among the best --
following       is                                       !:
                                                             ;
                                         o. E. M.               !'
                     !                                             !
                     Hail, noblest science light divine
                        To Magi only given!

                     Hail art of arts, that bears the sign,
                        The stamp, (ho seal of Heaven.

                     Tho Sun himself, although so bright,
                     Is dim Itcsitle this triple light.

                            Hurrah hurrah for the ltosy Band,
                            Hurrah for the Holly Tree

                     Though some poor canting mortals say

                     That wise men must be sad,

                     Lot them come here and see the way

                     How wise men can be glad.

                     Their wisdom  but foolery,
                        is
                                is

                                    it
                     And own what ought to be.

                     Hurrah hurrah for tho ltosy Band,
                        !

                     Hurrah for the Holly Tree                  !
                                                                                    ;"
i  The "Rosy Band" and "Holly"                           the Friends of Truth         the " Magi" were,
                                                         of course, members
formed part of  the  thinesig"nBiarotohferthhooodMagoaf                               of these frulerui-
Plub, and then  of                                       ties.
   EDWARD FORBES.                                       243

Man's life was "never meant to l«'

"  A life of care and woe ;

   E"nTjohye,"    says   true   philosophy,
                days    thou   art below."

Heaven sprcads the banquet for mir use,

lie sins who dares Heaven's gifts refuse.

   Hurrah ! hurrah for the Rosy Rami,
   Hurrah for the Holly Treo !

Then whilst we live we'll spend our hours'II
   Mid nil that's bright and fair ;        '11

AIn learning's fields we gather flowers,
   To wreathe in Beauty's hair,
                !
For wisdom's hoary locks we twine
    crown of myrtle and of vine.
       Hurrah hurrah for the Rosy Band,
       Hurrah for the Holly Tree
                                             !

                                                     A

      After Forbcs's sojourn in Paris, he seems to have
taken especial delight in Berangcr, since both among his
papers and in the pages of the Maya there occur fre
quent translations from that poet, as well as imitations
of some of his songs. But in his student years, and for
years afterwards, the bulk of Forbcs's poetical effusions
belonged to the amatory class, and were often of the
most .sentimental kind. Sonnets to many a fair one,
odes to beauty, and passionate love-lorn songs, run
through his note-books, and occupy endless sheets, half-
sheets, and odd scraps of paper, mingled, too, with faces
ringlet-shaded or braided, grave, tender, or gay. Often,
on some page of dry natural history notes, an arch face,
with long curls, peeps out at the corner, or tall dreamy-
faced nymphs float across the leaves with arms out
stretched, beckoning the limner to that land of sunny
eyes, in which lay the scenes of his day-dreams.

     On the 10th January 183'J, Forbes wrote to the
secretary of the Wernerian Society, desiring to be ad
244  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. DC.

mittcd a member. His admission, which took place
shortly afterwards, must have been peculiarly gratifying
to him, since his name was proposed by his revered
master, Jameson. The new associate soon showed that

he meant to carry out with zeal the ends of the Society.

The same session, as has already been noticed, he read
his memoir on the star fishes of the Irish Sea, which, at

the express desire of the Society, was printed in their

Transactions.1

     As spring wore on, it became necessary to set about
completing the material for the Report on the distribu
tion of British pulmoniferous molluscs, which was to
be read at the ensuing Association meeting. Forbes
planned his summer tour in such a way that the ex
treme northern and southern limits of the islands should,

if possible, be visited along with Ireland. By such a

circuit, together with what had been done by himself
and others in the intermediate area, he judged that the
report might be made "interesting, if possible, impor
tant." He begged vigorously from all his friends, and
received valuable aid. To Mr. Thompson he writes,
when the probability of visiting him had lessened,

I" as for Ireland, must O'Connclize, i.e., beg assistance

from you, and anybody else you know, who can fur
nish local lists, especially for the far west and south

west."

     On the last day of May he sailed for the Shetlands,
touching at Anstruthcr by the way to take on board his
fellow-labourer, Mr. Goodsir. During the fortnight they
spent among these islands, Forbes found little to insert

                                        i Mem. Werner. Soc. vm.
1S30.  EDWARD FORBES.  245

in his report of air-breathing gasteropoda, and so far the
journey was fruitless ; but this was to no small extent
compensated by the success of his dredgings in the bays
and fiords. He thus sums up in his note-book the re
sults of the fortnight : " We have done very well, on the
whole, in our visit to Shetland, especially considering
how short our time has been. To add eleven or twelve

new animals to the British fauna, and to see as many

more exceeding rare species, confined to this locality, is
no small harvest for a naturalist to reap in a fortnight,
especially when it is considered that six days of that

fortnight were lost, in a manner, at sea. . . N.B. --Must
go back to Shetland." A week of similar employment

was passed in Orkney, enlivened, however, by a ball on
board one of the Hudson's Bay Company's ships, where,
" to the music of three fiddles, the scrapers of which

appeared to be somewhat elevated," Forbes "plunged
into the intricacies of the dance, and kept it up till two
in the morning."

     He returned to Edinburgh on the 26th June, but
started again on the 1st July, to join Mr. Smith of
Jordanhill in a dredging cruise among the bays of the
Firth of Clyde. He chronicles nothing of note in the

voyage, and adds that he returned to Edinburgh on the
18 th. The beginning of the following month found him
at Berwick and Newcastle, collecting material for his
Report from Dr. Jolmston and Mr. Alder. Thence he
hurried through London to Guernsey, anxious to carry
out his plan of gathering evidence from both extremes
of the British isles. When his notes and papers were

completed, he went to Birmingham, where the British
246  MEMOIR OF                                              CHAP. IX.

Association held its reunion. The papers which he reatl

were, -- 1st, Report on the distribution of the Pulmoni
ferous Mollusca in the British Islands,1 in which, after

pointing out the various influences which affect the
distribution of terrestrial molluscs, he divides the British

lsles into ten zoological provinces, and indicates the
general relations of this part of the British fauna to that
of the continent of Europe. His quaint humour creeps
out in the description of the region embracing the
Scottish Highlands, of which he says, " climate sways
the distribution in the ninth -district. Tln; hospitality

of the Highlands does not extend to snails." 2d, Notice

of Zoological researches in Orkney and Shetland during
June 1839. 2 3<Z, On the Ciliograda of the British seas

by Forbes and Goodsir. At this meeting three com
mittees were formed, in each of which Forbes took part.

One had for its object the preparation of skeleton maps
for recording the distribution of plants and animals.
But he took still more interest in the Dredering Coin-

mittee, which, indeed, owed its existence largely to his

own exertions. A sum of sixty pounds was set apart

" for researches with the dredge, with a view to the
investigation of the marine zoology of Great Britain,

the illustration of the geographical distribution of marine

animals, and the more accurate determination of the

fossils of the pleistocene period." His interest in the
operations of this committee found vent in some verses

which, though written for the next Association meeting,

may be appropriately quoted here.       The first three

verses ran as follows :--

     Ile/t. Brit. Aas. 1831), ]>. 127.  · IIj'«L  ji.  7«.
1S3!>.  EDWARD FORBES.                                                  247

        THE DREDGING SONG.

        nr a MP.sinKR op the dnf.doino committee op sect. i».

        Hurrah for the dredge, with its iron edge,
           And its mystical triangle,

        And its hided net with meshes set

        Odd fishes to entangle !

        The ship may move through the wave above,

        Mid scenes exciting wonder,

        But braver sightR the dredge delights

        As it roveth the waters under.         we will go, wise boys !
               Chorus-- Then a-Urcdging        we will go. ,

                              Then a-dredging

        Down iu the deep, where the mermen sleep,       wist,

           Our gallant dredge is sinking ;

        Each finny shape in a precious scrape
           Will find itself in a twinkling !

        They may twirl and twist, and writhe as they
           And break themselves into sections ;

        I In t up they all, at the dredge's call,
           Must come to fill collections.
                       Chorus -- Then a-dredging, etc.

        The creatures strange the sea that range,
           Though mighty in their stations,

        To the dredge must yield lho briny field
           Of their loves and depredations.

        The crab so bold, like a knight of old
           In scaly armour plated,

        And the slimy snail, with a shell on his tail,
           And the star-fish -- radiated.
                     Chorus --Then a-dredging, etc.

      This meeting is memorable for the institution of the
" Red Lions," of which Forbes was the founder, and, for

many years, the leading spirit. He and other young
naturalists, disliking the irksomeness and expense of the
ordinary, adjourned to a small tavern adorned with the
sign of the Red Lion. There they dined daily at small
expense, on beef eooked in various fashions, moistened
with sundry potations of beer, and enlivened by joke
and song-- in contradistinction to the endless dishes and
wines, and formality of the " big wigs." " Before the
248  MEMOIR OP  CIIA1'. IX.

conclusion of the meeting," says Dr. Bennett, "these
dinners became so famous that the tenement could

scarcely hold the guests, and it was resolved to continue
them wherever afterwards the Association should meet."

The sign of the tavern furnished a name for the guests.
They styled themselves " Red Lions," and, in proof of
their leonine relationship, made it a point of always
signifying their approval or dissent by growls and roars
more or less audible, and, where greater energy was
needed, by a vigorous flourishing of their coat-tails. in

these manifestations it is needless to say that the voice

of Edward Forbes rang out above the rest, and his
rampant coat-tail served as a model to the younger
lions. He was wont, too, to delight the company by
chanting in his own peculiar intonation songs composed
for the occasion, the subjects bejng usually taken from
some branch of science (as in the song quoted on the
preceding page), and treated with that humour and
grotesqueness in which he so much delighted. Of these
and the "Red Lions" who listened to them, more will

be said in subsequent chapters, for the meetings were
continued to the time of Forbes's death, and are still

kept up. Indeed, so pleasant were they found to be,
that those members who lived in London, formed them
selves into a Red Lion Association, and met statedly,
their crest being a brilliant red lion with a long pipe
in one paw, and a glass of beer in the other, and the
" feeding hour of the carnivora, six o'clock precisely."
The reader may perchance smile, and deem these but
some of the extravagancies of youth. And yet they
were zealously joined in by men who have since stood
IS39. EDWARO FORBES.  249

forth as leaders in science, respected all over the world.
Let no one think lightly of them who has never mingled
among the students of nature, and who knows, there
fore, nothing of the hearty fellow-feeling which, in spite
of petty jealousies, unites these men into one great
brotherhood, and of the sometimes even boyish exulta

tion with which they quit museum, laboratory, lecture-
room, lull, valley, or shore, and repair from all corners
of the land to compare notes in science, and to stimulate
and strengthen each other by the exchange of a frank
and generous sympathy. Men who spend their years
face to face with nature, would be formed of strange

mould if their spirits caught no measure, how small

soever, of nature's freshness and exuberance. There

lies an interconnexion, dimmed sometimes, but clear

enough in the main, between free open creation and

free open hearts ; and this, when allowed to manifest

itself untrammelled, is apt, sometimes, to take a form

which, to the world at large, seems no way consonant
with the gravity deemed requisite in the votaries of
science. Unfortunately, the popular notion has had a
potent influence in scientific circles, and it was largely
in opposition to this kind of cant that Forbes, who hated

it with his whole soul, originated the "Red Lions."

And, in after years, when he had arrived at the zenith
of his reputation, and British geology had conferred

upon him the highest honours it had to bestow, his

antipathy to men of buckram remained strong as ever.
He could sec no reason why a President of the Geological
Society should cease to be a " Red Lion," and so he

chanted his songs and cracked his jokes as merrily
25(1  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IX.

as he had done in the little Birmingham tavern when

he was only beginning to be known.
     After the meeting at Birmingham, Forbes returned

to the Isle of Man, where he remained two months,

naturalizing, as was his wont. Jle devoted his time

especially to the study of the Echinodermata, and
began to contemplate an extension of his paper on those
of the Irish Sea,1 so as to form a monograph of the
British species. The material for such a work had been

slowly accumulating, partly from the donations of friends,
but chiefly from his own researches, and in the Septem
ber of this year (1839) he deemed his stores sufficiently
ample to justify him in proposing to collect them into a

volume. Accordingly, he wrote to Mr. Van Voorst :--

                                                " Douglas, Islk of Man, Sept. 16, 1839.

     " Sir, -- Having for some time back, under the most

favourable circumstances, been collecting materials for
the natural history of the molluscous and radiate
animals of Great Britain, most of which are now in a

state nearly ready for publication, I should like to know

if such would be available in your plan of publishing a

series of histories.

    I" am drawing up at present a history of British

star fishes, with a view to publication during the early

part of next year. If it would suit your series, it is at

your service. There are about thirty or thirty-five
species, many of which have only been observed by my

Iself. Drawings of all of these should furnish, and

 accompany them with a series of specimens for the use
 of the engraver.

                                                ' Man. Werner, .foe. Till.
                    EDWARD FORBES.  251

      " 111 regard to the extent of my materials, graphic

aml descriptive, on this subject, on the Medusae, and on

Ithe radiate animals generally, believe I may take the

liberty of referring you to Professor Rymcr Jones. An

answer would oblige. -- I am, Sir, your obedient Servant,

                                                  " Edward Forbes.''
  "To.I. Vab Voorst, Esq."

This offer was at once accepted by the enterprising

publisher; the work occupied Forbes during the fol

lowing winter, and the greater part of the next year,

appearing in numbers until the summer of 1841, when
the whole was completed, forming his well-known His
tory of British Star-fishes.

      To come more prominently before the public than

he had hitherto done, formed part of a plan by which

Forbes judged that his devotion to science might be

rewarded with a professional appointment. lt was now

more than tluee years since he had given himself up to
science, in the hope, as he wrote at the time, that it
would " bring him in, before many years rolled over,

some remuneration for his exertions." The success of

his public lectures, and the growing confidence he felt

in his powers as an expositor of nature, encouraged him

to aim at any eligible chair of natural history that

might fall vacant.  In the meantime, it seemed

needful to take up some public position which, while

extending his name as a teacher, would at the same

time afford him to some extent the remuneration he

desired. it was with this aim he had become a public

lecturer, and had " worked pretty hard," as he wrote to
252  MEMOIIt OF  CIIAI'. IX.

Dr. Percy, " endeavoming to knock up a reputation, so

as to get a chair, if possible, some day." An explanation

of these views is contained in the following "plan,"

written on a loose half-sheet of paper, and found among

his manuscripts :--

                                " Plan.
   "Intention, --To establish in Edinburgh as a lecturer

on natural history and a literary man, with a view to a
chair in one of the Universities, or some corresponding

situation of permanent profit.

    " Hoio to be obtained. --By increasing my collec

tions up to the lecturing point, so as to make them a

recommendation for the class ; to gather materials for

commencement as soon as possible, and deposit them in
rooms in Edinburgh hired for the purpose (in addition
to lecture-room).

     "Immediate Prospect. -- Little or no remuneration
from lecturing at first, but certainty of employment as a
lecturer generally in a year or two, if successful. Also

of literary employment (which is always ' profitable)

before long.

     " Outlay required. -- On collection (illustrative speci
mens) ; books (necessary text-books) ; rooms (lecture
and collection) ; occasional printing and literary specu
lations.

     " Annual Allowance." -- [From his father.]

      There was one professorship in particular at which

he looked very wistfully. A fund had been left for the
endowment of a " Chair of Chemistry, or some allied
science," in the University of St. Andrews, and the
1S39.  EDWARD FORBES.         253

Professors were willing, and even anxious, that as there

already existed a chemical professorship, the money

should be applied to the endowment of a Chair of

Natural History. Sir David Brewster gave Forbes
every encouragement, and indeed, at one time, it

appeared likely that the appointment would be made in

his favour. But in the end nothing came of it.

    It was to inquire into the prospects of tlris Chair,

that on his arrival in Edinburgh, about the middle of

October, Forbes hurried to St. Andrews. He found only

new difficulties in the way, but to augment his chances of

success in the event of the Chair being erected, he agreed

to give a course of lectures in the town. On returning to
Edinburgh, he thus details his prospects to his father :--

    I"Edinburgh, October 29. -- have engaged to deliver

a short course at St. Andrews in November and Decem

ber, eight or ten lectures, at two guineas each, which will
Ipay my bookseller's bill.
                            shall then return here until

Ithe end of January, when go to Liverpool and deliver
Ieight lectures there.
                        am very glad to have any excuse

for not lecturing here this winter, as there is sure to be

a blow-up between the professors and out-lecturers, in

which I should be sorry to be implicated. The profes

sors and my friends here generally are very well pleased
at my refusing to join the " Queen's College," as it is

Icalled. At the same time, am on the best terms with

the lecturers. It is best to adhere to the stronger party
Iwhen they arc in the right.
                              am in treaty at present

with a London publisher about the publication of a work

on the British star-fishes. Such a book would do me

much service. My memoir on that subject, in the Wer
254  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IX

nerian Transactions, which has just come out, has given
great satisfaction."

     It would seem from the conclusion of this extract

that he had kept his own counsel regarding the forth
coming volume, and though living with his father for
more than a month after writing to Mr. Van Voorst, had
not divulged it until he got back again to Edinburgh,
and matters appeared likely to come to a favourable

issue.

      His lectures in Fife commenced at the beginning of
December, and another invitation having been sent to
him by the Cupar Philosophical Association, he lectured
twice a week there, and likewise twice a week at St.

Andrews. The subject was a wider one than he had
chosen for the preceding winter, inasmuch as it embraced
a summary of the whole animal kingdom, and he found
it necessary to expand the course into twelve lectures.
From the report of a contemporary local newspaper, we
learn that the series at Cupar was " extremely well at
tended, the audience commencing at an average of eighty,
and terminating at more than double that number." The
light in which Forbes regarded these lectures is well
shown in a letter written at the time (December 16) to

his friend Mr. Patterson of Belfast :-- "My chief motive

at present," he says, " is the practice of public speaking,
and the combining my knowledge of particular points in
zoology with a general knowledge of the whole animal

kingdom. This is best done by lecturing, and as I have

Ibecome a philosopher by profession, think it right and

fair to make philosophy contribute towards its own ex

penses."
1S30.         EDWARD FORBES.          255

       Whilst thus diffusing a taste for natural history pur

suits, he did not cease to prosecute vigorously his own

original researches. At St. Andrews he especially de-

voted himself to a careful study of some of the Bcroidae,

establishing some new points in their nervous structure,

which had been mistaken by Dr. Grant.

    On the 9th December 1839, he writes :-- " Dear

IPatterson, -- The last fortnight have 'been up to the

ears in Cydippcs with most excellent results, chiefly
              IIn these examinations
microscopic.                          have had the

benefit of the assistance in microscopes, etc., of Major
Playfair and Sir David Brewster -- old eyes at looking

through glasses. . . . Do write to me about our favourite

subjects, and believe me ever sincerely yours,

                                   " Edward Forbes A."

       Towards the end of this year was founded a Uni

versity Club, intended to supply a bond of union among

the students of the different faculties, and between

present and former students. Under its auspices an

Academic Annual was published (the first and last of

the series), containing, among others, essays by Samuel

Brown, George Wilson, and Edward Forbes. It was here

that Forbes first sketched out that grouping of the

marine zones which in after years he so minutely de
                                      " On the Association
veloped. The title of his paper  is,

of Mollusca on the British coast, considered with refer

ence to Pleistocene Geology." After sonic general re

marks on the necessity of connecting the study of fossils

with that of living forms, he proceeds to divide the

sloping sea bed into four zones :--
256                     MEMOIR OF                     CHAP. IX.

     1st, The littoral zone between high and low water.

2d, The region of laminarice, or tangle, from low water

to from 7 to 10 fathoms. 3 The region of corallines,

" the chosen scene for the operation of the dredge --an
                        a

                                c?,

                                                   a
instrument as valuable to naturalist as thermometer

to natural philosopher" -- 15 to 30 fathoms, ith, Region
a

of corals, 60 fathoms.

     After pointing out the effects of subsidence or

elevation in mingling the fauna of the different zones,

he states that the pleistocene beds, even when without

extinct forms, yet differ in the association of mollusca

from the shell-beds of the neighbouring seas, and that

even the pleistocene, which        subdivision of the
                             is
                                 a
                                        a
pliocene, needs to be partitioned into newer and older

series.

     The Fife lectures ended in the middle of January

1840, and the course which he had engaged to give in
Liverpool began on the 13th of next month. The in
terval was spent at Edinburgh, writing up his notes and
completing his drawings of the star-fishes, which he had

promised to have ready for the publisher on the 1st
March. This arrangement, however, owing to an un
expected change in the date of the Liverpool lectures, he
found himself unable to fulfil. As was, he had to
         a

                                               it
deny himself much pleasant social intercourse at Liver
pool, and took lodgings instead of accepting the hospi

tality of friend, that his labour might be less impeded.
" Every hour, exclusive of lecture," so he writes to his
sister (March 9), " has been taken up writing." Yet the
writing was not wholly scientific. Amid ophiurse, ophio-

comas, Luidias, echini, and cidares, he found quiet
1M0. EDWARD FORBES. 257

moments when his fancy glided back into its old and
long-loved channel, and bore its wonted burden of verse

and song. Among his papers there is " A Round Robin

from the Ladies," printed in the Liverpool Albion, and

signed BBS;1 and the " Editor's Reply to the Ladies

of Liverpool," evidently also from his pen. To the same
paper he sent one of his best lyrics -- one indeed which
might justify his aspiration " to be a poet yet." The

following is from his own copy, cut out of the newspaper,
and contains only one emendation in his handwriting :--

                        A NIGHT SCENE

           A night-sky over head :

           One solitary star

              Sinning amid                                                   clouds  hid
                                                                             bed
           A little track of bine -- fur dark
           Id sister Bunlets ; on its azure

              It seemed a sun, for there

           No jealous planet shone with which it to compare.

           The dark clouds rolled away,
              And all heaven's shiniDg train
              Of suns and stars,

           With the great moon, beamed forth their gorgeous light.
           Where then was that fair star that shone so bright?

              Where wan it ? none could say,
           Yet thcro it doubtless was although it seemed away.

           So lustrous shall we find
              On earth each soul 1

           When seen alone ;

           And though when brighter spirits round it press,

           We lose its form and doubt its loveliness,

           Si should we bear in mind
                 it ill
           That       is
                                                               it
                 not less bright although be outshincd.

Liverpool, March 1840.

The lectures appear to have been successful, since they

In his early articles, songs and                                             the pun by substituting four actual bees
B                                                                            with quizzical faces (sometimes with
  ;B i                                                                       pipe in their mouths) and bodies and leps

                                                        ;                    thro"wnEacinhtolitvhiengmsoostula,"wkmwaarrgdinaplosintoiotnes. .
                                                                     a

                                                                           1!

                                                            '
sketches, forl>es varied his initials in                                                  a

most characteristic way. Sometimes he
BBBBwrote
           (four b'a- Forbes) or only
BBS;or. as above,
                   or he altered
258  MEMOIR OF                         CHAP. IX.

not only pleased Forbes but also the directors, who ex

pressed a wish that he should lecture again next session.

This he willingly agreed to do, as the remuneration

(five guineas a lecture) was much larger than he had
received in Scotland, and additional experience in public

speaking he regarded as of great importance. He men

tions a correspondence with some of the Manchester

Institutions, relative to a course of lectures in May, but

the pressure of other engagements seems to have pre

vented it ever taking place.

     No sooner had he concluded his engagement at

Liverpool than he hurried off to London, to arrange
about the publication of his " British Star-fishes." The

fortnight in town was a very pleasant one. He found

Mr. Van Voorst ready to second his exertions, and de

termined to spare no expense in bringing out the volume

in the best style of printing and engraving. Forbes took

away with him some wood-blocks to draw with his own

pencil the outlines of the ophiuric, etc. Of this visit he
"Ithus writes to Thompson (March 21),
                                       have spent a

very pleasant time in London, but have not done much.

This is not the place for working. Paris is a much

better locality for a naturalist." He received great kind

ness from the leading scientific men of the metropolis,

and he especially records the names of Robert Brown,

Owen, Lyell, Yarrel, Rymer Jones, Ward, Bentham,

Harvey, and others. " On Thursday," he says, " I had a

great treat in dining at Ward's, meeting Robert Brown,

old Mcnzies, Bentham, and Harvey. We had a most

pleasant dinner-party. I have scon a good deal of the

geologists, and found them by no means bad fellows."
184i).  EDWARD FORBES.  259

      He loft London for Edinburgh on the 25th March,
with the intention of returning early in May to sec the
woodcuts of his work before they were printed off. His
speedy luigration northwards afforded some merriment
to his friends at Belfast, and he defends himself in a

Iletter to Mr. Thompson :-- " am amused greatly at
your triumph over my return to Edinburgh. True, I
could not work in London : I preferred pretty women

to star fishes, and the theatre to study. Besides, want
of books, actual want of books ! After all, give me my
lodgings in my attic in Lothian Street, in spite of my

uproarious visitors. I would work well in London, how
Iever, were fixed there in lodgings."

     When he returned to the " attic," it was with the

firm determination to devote every available moment
towards hurrying on his work for Mr. Van Voorst. He
was induced to this, not only by the desire of having the

volume published at once : the British Association was
to meet this year in Glasgow, all the Scottish naturalists
would be there, and he felt that he could certainly take

no mean place among them. It became needful, there

fore, to get ready fresh papers. He had materials for
several, but they were not so complete aa an additional
month or two of dredging and exploration might make
them. Hence if he allowed the summer to slip away
whilst he remained in Edinburgh, August would come
upon him unprepared. Unfortunately, however, a cala
mity befell him which no amount of prudence could have
averted. His landlady had resolved to leave Edinburgh,
and so poor Forbes received notice to quit his attic,

where he had been gathering together plants, sea-urchins,
260  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. IX.

 shells, minerals, boxes, bottles, and scraps of paper, --in

 short, as he called it himself, " the accumulated rubbish
 of four years." When the fatal truth became only too
 evident, he began the exodus as methodically as, in the
 midst of such a chaos, seemed possible. To his sister

Ihe writes, " intend to have a sale of old clothes

 next week, and then distribute my goods among my
 friends, or else hire a room wherein to put them.

 Seriously, it is very annoying at present, as it delays

 my book."
      We cannnot wonder that, under these circumstances,

 the young naturalist's brain should at times have become

somewhat confused. " All my movements," he says to
Mr. Thompson (May 13), " are floating like dreams in my
brain, -- Channel Islands, Ireland, Hebrides, Isle of Man,

all dancing quadrilles with each other, pirouetting in
turn, advancing and retreating, and then to then' places.

II wish were omnipresent." The weather, too, annoyed
Ihim, for in the same letter he adds, " don't feel well in

an east wind ; it blows my brains to the wrong side of
my head, and confuses me." And so, by way of solace,
he threatens to " do the animal kingdom in verse, stick
ing at nothing that is physiologically true." He began
this design, indeed, by writing a few humorous verses
on the habits and structure of the Holothuridae. Happily,
however, the wind and his landlady's intention seem
to have changed together. He was allowed to remain
peaceably in his old abode, and prosecuted his drawings
and descriptions until summoned to London by an
urgent letter from Mr. Thompson. He remained only
a week in town, working almost without intermission at
1840.  EDWARD FORBES.  261

the preparation of the first part of the ".Star-fishes,"
and then hurried with his friend to Liverpool.

      The early part of this summer seems to have been

spent quietly at the Isle of Man. On the 6 th of July
he left Douglas, and passed some weeks in Ireland. At

Belfast he found his old friends and fellow-naturalists,
William Thompson and Robert Patterson, and under
their guidance strolled round the neighbourhood of the
town. From Belfast he proceeded with Thompson and
Hyndman, by Eimiskillen and Ballyshannon, to Bun-
doran, where with the addition of Robert Ball, they
tried to dredge, but found the sea too stormy, and con
tented themselves with an examination of the rocks of

the shore. At Westport, Lough Killery, Clifden, and

Roundstone Bay they dredged, but the unfavourable

state of the weather still continued. At the last-named

locality, Thompson parted from the company, and tra
velled by land to Galway, while the rest made the trip

by sea, meeting with an accident at the Arran Isles, by
which the jib-boom was snapped. They arrived in Galway
late at night, and found their friend in bed fast asleep.
After some further dredging on the west coast of Clare,
Forbes re-crossed the country, and returned to the Isle of
Man, where he remained till the 9th of September, busy
with his volume, and with the preparation of one or two
papers for the Association. Some of these required
additional dredging, but his usual success had somehow

deserted him this summer. " I do think," he writes to

Mr. Patterson, "the Medusae have heard of our com

mittee and cut, or that some mischievous anti-zoologist
has written them an anonymous letter warning them of
262  MEMOIR OF                        CHAP. IX.

their danger, for deuce a one is to be seen in the sea
Inow where there were once so many !
                                      have been

doing exactly as yourself to find them. My only cap

tures have been the common Medusa aurita, the Cyanea
capillata, G. Lamarhii, and the Gydippe pilcus, and

even all these are exceedingly scarce this year. There is

evidently a conspiracy."

    It is interesting to notice the delight with which he

looked forward to the ensuing meeting of the British

Association, and the desire he expressed in many of his

letters that he might behold a strong muster of his

naturalist comrades. Any one who showed symptoms

of hanging back received an earnest expostulation, warn
ing, entreaty, or even friendly threat. William Thomp

son, who found himself unable to attend, came in for

an especial measure of bantering ; another old student-

friend, who had returned from abroad, was warmly
solicited to " come to Glasgow to meet them all."

Wholly free from the petty jealousy of lesser minds,

Forbes delighted to see round him his comrades and
rivals in the race. He encouraged, aided, and advised

them, or frankly told them their faults, ever binding

them closer to him by the transparent openness and
generous friendship of all his doings.

     Although one or two of the band were absent, Forbes

had no reason to be disappointed with the aspect of the
phalanx of young men of science. He saw around him

not a few who had entered the field with himself, and

who, fighting their way upward with him, have since

taken a high place. The array of leaders in science was

likewise a goodly one. In his own section (of which
 mo. EDWARD FORBES. 263

he and his friend Mr. Patterson were chosen secretaries),
Forbes records with especial pleasure the presence of
Agassiz. " We are great friends," he wrote to Mr.
Thompson from Lothian Street, after the conclusion of
the meeting, "and were together all the Association

week." " I expect him here on the 21st October ; he is

to work over my species with me, so as to avoid useless

synonyms."
      Forbes's scientific standing was greatly heightened,

both by his papers, and by the impression of the wide
range of his acquirements produced by his conversation,
and the manner in which he discharged the duties of
secretary. The communications which he read were,

1st, A paper in the Geological Section, " On a Pleisto
cene tract in the Isle of Man, and the relation of its

Fauna to that of the neighbouring sea." This was his
first appearance before the geologists of the Association.

In introducing himself and his subject to them, he said
" that he did not appear as a geologist, but as a zoolo
gist desirous of contributing to the progress of geology."
2d, On Pelonaia, a new genus of ascidian mollusca, a
joint paper by John Goodsir and Edward Forbes. They
had found two of their species near Rothesay, and one
in the Firth of Forth. 3d, Further researches on the
British Ciliograda, also a joint paper by the same authors,
in continuation of that which they had read at the pre

vious meeting.
     The " Red Lions" growled, and roared, and flourished

their tails again this year as lustily as before. Pro
fessor Rainsay, who now entered the fraternity, has

furnished the following recollections of the meeting :--
264  MEMOIR OP  CHAP. IX.

I" dined," he says, " with the ' Red Lions' at the Thistle
Iin Glassford Street, and sat, think, between Forbes

and Lankester. Forbes and an Irish gentleman were
the very life of the party. They both made speeches
replete with humour, the latter returning thanks for
the health of the army, and Forbes proposing the

health of that wonderful curiosity --a creature com

pounded of a cross between the Red Lion of England
and the Scottish Thistle. He also chanted his famous
song of the oyster--a style of composition which, at

that time, to me had all the charm of novelty. It was

with no small pleasure that 1 then discovered that the
most promising young scientific men of the day were as
remarkable for their mirth and humour as for their

scientific acquirements."
     When the meeting of the Association terminated

(23d September) a large number of the members visited
Edinburgh, to which Forbes also repaired. Among the
visitors he especially welcomed Agassiz, who, as he wrote
to Mr. Thompson, visited the attic of 21, Lothian Street,
and " worked over the synonyms, freely telling all he
knew, and confessing all he did not know. He was in
ecstasies with the living urchins, star-fishes, and ophiurae

I showed him, and confessed he had never seen them

alive." " He also gave in to my classification of the
Echinodermata, admitting the Ophiuridas as a group
equivalent to the star-fishes, and granting that the

Sipunculidae are radiata."
      The gradual departure of his Association friends,

and the consequent cessation of the round of break

fasts, dinners, and suppers, left Forbes at leisure to
1840.                       EDWARD FORBES.                              265

bethink him of how the winter was to be spent. The

St. Andrew's Chair still kept dancing like a will-o'-the-

wisp before him, and about the middle of October, it

seemed on the eve of decision. But ere a month had

gone by, it slipped away from him, and nothing but an
Act of Parliament could bring it back, by sanctioning the

application of the fund to a Chair of Natural History.

Nevertheless, he was told that it had been resolved to

apply for such an act, so that he had still a chance of

settling in St. Andrews. But he had ceased to be very
sanguine in the matter, and he remarked that he should
" probably have cut natural history before it was settled."

"
                       is,
The truth he began to weary of the uncertainty and
dependence of his lot. His lectures hardly paid their

own expenses. The literary employment to which he

had looked forward as likely to afford some help he had

found no time to undertake, and no other remunerative

sphere of labour seemed open to him. His buoyant

spirit and enthusiastic devotion to science had hitherto

closed his eyes to the difficulties a-head, but now, as

these came nearer, he found himself reluctantly com

pelled to look them full in the face. The result of his

councils was to make one more vigorous effort in Edin
burgh. " mean," so he writes to Mr. Thompson, " to
       a

           I
                                     iIt a

                                                        if

                                                                    it
give science another chance for year, and there are

no better prospects at the end of           must bid adieu."

       That he was in earnest when this decision was made

soon became evident by the announcement of two

courses of lectures by him this winter. One of these

was strictly scientific series upon systematic and

structural zoology, and the philosophy of natural his
266                           MEMOIR OF              CHAP. IX.

tory. The second course was of a more popular caste.

It formed one part of a series of lectures on the " Philo

sophy of the Sciences," of which the other half was

undertaken by the late Dr. Samuel Brown1-- a college

friend with whom Forbes had much in common. The
subject of Forbes's popular lectures he called " Zoology

and Psycho-zoology," terms which sufficiently indicate
the general aim and tendency of his thoughts. These

lectures were given weekly on the Saturday evenings,

and began auspiciously with an audience of 200 ; but

this number was due, as the lecturers soon found, rather

to the fact that the introductory discourses were free, than

to any strong interest in philosophy on the part of the

public. " If this experiment fail," wrote Forbes to Mr.
Patterson, " I don't know what to say about feeding

the people. The mass bestow more kicks than half

pence on science." His forebodings were only too truly

realized ; on the first paying night the room showed a

disheartening array of empty benches, and the lectures

in the end became a failure.

     The other more strictly scientific lectures were in

tended chiefly for students, and were given three times
a week. This series, too, met with little encouragement,
but Forbes went on lecturing from a stern sense of duty,
because, to quote his own words, " to desert my post

here, even with my two or three students, would be

ruination to my character for steadiness."

     It seemed as though success in the more practical

affairs of life were never to be gained. Here, in the

i Four yuan after this he refera to                  lectures ; it may amuse you by thc im-
                                                     pudence of two students putting forth
t"heIseselnedcturyeosu  in a  letter to Mr. Horner.
                         the  prospectus of those    such a document."
1840.  EDWARD FORBES.  267

third vocation he had chosen, he found little but dis

appointment, and this was now all the more discourag
ing, not merely from its repetition at a maturcr age, but
because it met him in the path where he felt that ho
deserved to succeed, and which, indeed, he saw was the

path for which he was specially qualified. The prospect
was far from cheering. Everywhere around him he saw
his old comrades settled in more or less remunerative
spheres of labour ; they had a definite aim and employ
ment ; some were even rising to eminence in scientific
reputation, and others, far his inferiors in mental power,
seemed to find lucrative appointments almost without
an effort. But as for himself, he had been drifting
about for five years since abandoning medicine, and now
a settled home and permanent vocation appeared about
as far distant as ever. Yet he had worked hard ; he

had botanized and zoologized at intervals from the Shet-
lands to the Channel Isles ; he had dredged a consider
able extent of the Scottish coast, as well as the Irish Sea ;

he had added not a few animals to the British fauna ; he

had dissected and studied many of the invertcbrata,
especially the echinoderms and some of the medusae ; he

had published several carefully prepared papers and
memoirs, and was at that time engaged upon his book
on the " Star-fishes," and as the result of the whole, he

had come to be regarded by the leading men of science
as one of the most promising naturalists in the country.
And yet, with this amount of work done and reputation
gained, and with the earnest desire to labour still more
vigorously, every avenue towards a livelihood seemed
closed against him.
268  MEMOIR OF  CIIAI*. IX.

      That a man of Forbes's sensitive nature felt all this

keenly may easily be believed. But he preserved, never
theless, the innate buoyancy of his spirit, and serious
though matters looked, he could inweave with them a
thread of light-hearted humour. Instead of sitting down
in despair at the signal failure of his double course of
lectures, he boldly resolved to adventure another series
for the summer months. This decision he thus com
municates to Mr. Thompson (25th January 1841) : "You

Iwill be surprised when tell you that I can't go to Lon
Idon, as mean to lecture in summer !. May, June, and
IJuly must be here. I do so as an act of duty, and to

give the lecturing a fair trial ; if it does not look well in
summer, I'll adapt my brains to something else--perhaps

writing plays, which is a favourite ambition of mine. . .
My summer plan is to lecture thrice a week, and dredge
the intermediate days, training my class to dredging and
practical observation, and rearing a band of practical

naturalists, who may take my place should I cut the

science or my stick."
      These summer lectures were undertaken partl)7 on

account of a license which, through the intercession of a
friend, he had obtained from the Army Board, qualify
ing his lectures for the military examinations. He hoped
that this recognition would attract some additional stu
dents ; at least he felt bound to make use of and so

he lectured on through the winter, with somewhat better
prospects for the summer session. But he was destined
to spend the summer in very different fashion, and in

   far-distant climate.

     In the beginning of February, he heard from Belfast
a
                                                   a
                                                                                      it,
1840.  EDWARD FORBES.  269

that an officer of the surveying squadron in the Mediter
ranean had come to England, and was anxious, before
returning to the East, to make the acquaintance of a
naturalist, who would be content to share a sailor's fare

for a year or two in the Levant. As soon as the desire
was expressed to them, Mr. Patterson and Mr. Thompson
at once suggested Edward Forbes, and they wrote to

him, asking whether, if such an offer were made to him, he

would be willing to accept it. The letter which Forbes
wrote in reply is remarkable for its caution and forethought.
He proposes seven questions, as to his fitness, the social
qualities and official position of the officer, the time when
his own services would be needed, and the means of

transporting himself and his apparatus to the station.

At the same time, he was ready, as he said, to jump at

the proposal, though, of course, he could make no move
ment until his father's consent should be obtained. When

he heard, in answer, that the officer in command was no

other than Captain Graves, with whose name he had
long been familiar, his determination to go was taken.

" It would be the acme of naturalizing happiness," he
wrote, and if matters could be arranged with the good

people at the Isle of Man, he was ready to start at once.
He said he never could anticipate his father's decisions,
and he felt considerably puzzled to conjecture how his
proposal would be received, " to enter on so complete an
abandonment of his immediate occupations, as going to
naturalize in the Mediterranean for a couple of years at
a month's notice."

     A week had to elapse before an answer could come

back from the island, and part of the time was spent in
270  MEMOIR OF                                                                          CHAP. IX.

anticipation of the voyage, reading and getting his notesa
and apparatus ready. He had still part of his Star-fishesa
to complete for Mr. Van Voorst, and the frequent use of the
microscope produced an inflammation of the eyes, which;
delayed his work, and occasioned some little annoyance.
                                            it,
In such leisure moments, he had often thought of putting
together his scattered jottings and reminiscences of jour

neys by land and sea, natural history facts, sketches of
manners, customs, and pictures of the roving, adventurous
life of an enthusiastic naturalist. This winter, the pos

sibility of such a volume had come so strongly before
him, that while temporarily laid aside from the use of
the microscope, he prepared to write and sent the first

page or two to his friend Mr. Van Voorst. It was to be

entitled " Rambles of Naturalist," and to contain end

less vignettes from the ample stores of his journals and
sketch-books. Some of these sketches actually passed

into the engraver's hands two pages were set up by the
printer, and prospectus of the aim of the work was
printed at the end of the " Star-fishes." But the volume
was never written. The stir and excitement of the

month of March 1841 interrupted his negotiations, and

the new scenes and duties of his after-life never allowed

him leisure to complete them.

      The evening of the 19 th February brought the longed-
for letter from the Isle of Man. To his delight, and just

   little to his surprise, he received not merely consent
but an approval from his father, but with some qualifica
tions, which Edward interpreted to mean that he might
expect no addition to his student's income in the event of

the voyage being undertaken. This, however, would have
a
                                                                                     a
1841.  EDWARD FORBES.  271

been esteemed a small matter, and would, perhaps, never

havc cost him even a moment's thought, had the journey
been a knapsack-tramp like his rambles in Scandinavia,
Switzerland, and Algiers. But the prospect of spending,
possibly, a couple of years among navy-men, induced
him to make inquiries as to how far his means would be
sufficient. His student income, derived entirely from
his father's puree, did not reach £150 a year. But in
addition, he expected a small remittance from London
for the " Star-fishes," according to agreement, and with
this income he proposed to venture, under the belief that
William Thompson would join him. The latter, how
ever, hung back for some time, and his hesitation gave
rise to several long and energetic letters from Forbes,
showing how the journey would add ten years to their
lives, afford them ample material on which to establish

a reputation as naturalists, and, above all, greatly ad

vance the cause of their favourite studies. In the end,

the two friends agreed to go together, both as guests of
Captain Graves, except that Forbes was " rated on the
books" as Naturalist to H. M. S. " Beacon," an honorary
title, on which he set a high value, from its bearings on
his future prospects.

     His winter lectures were just concluded, the " Star
fishes," though not published, was all in the hands of the
printer, and by the second week of March nothing re
mained to detain him save a short visit to the Isle of
Man, and another to his sister in Staffordshire. He

arranged to start from Edinburgh on the 13 th of the
month, and was actually on his way to the coach for
Glasgow, when he received a letter from Dr. Fleming,
272                MEMOIR OF                        CHAP. IX.

advising him to try for the vacant Chair of Natural

History at Aberdeen. Shortly before, when this vacancy

became known, it was generally stated that Dr. Fleming
himself had made application for the appointment. In
doubt as to the truth of this rumour, Forbes had written

to him, stating that if he did not try he himself would

do so. Such generous candour ever met with a ready
response from the veteran naturalist. He replied that

he had made application for the chair, and had, indeed,

been promised but that any probability of contestit,
                                                 :
should arise he would withdraw, and write immediatelyI it
to his young friend, and hence Fleming's letter advisinga ifIa
Forbes to put in his claim. Before the receipt of this
letter the latter had written to Mr. Thompson " shouldII

much like to have                            it[the chair], aswould place my

mind at ease and render me independent of home, but    I

fear  it      in vain to hope for it.  must just look forward

          is

to the results of the Greek expedition, and should any

thing turn up when am away, must leave request   a
with my friends to put in claim for me." Though late

in the field, he was not altogether without hope. Jamieson

promised to support him, Fleming would probably do the

same, and his friend Professor Blackie wrote to enlist

the co operation of the member for Aberdeen. Of the

candidates, he scarcely feared Macgillivray. Phillips was

his formidable opponent, backed, as he believed, by the

whole strength of the Geological Society.
     Under these circumstances, the route by the west coast

had to be abandoned. Leaving Mr. Goodsir to collect

testimonials from the Scottish naturalists, Forbes start ed

by  packet for London, to push matters at head quarters,
1841.  KDWARD FORBES.  273

and arrange with Captain Graves about the journey to
Malta, for whatsoever might be the result of his canvass
for the Aberdeen Chair, he had determined upon going
to the East, and the success of his application would only
prevent his wintering abroad, and bring him home to
lecture in November. But in the end, the decision of
Lord Normanby (for the Chair is a regius one) went
against him, and the appointment was given to Mac

gillivray.

     All arrangements being at last completed, the natu

ralists finally left London on the 1st of April.

       s
                          CHAPTER X.

                           THE AEGEAN SEA.

     Leaving London on the 1st of April 1841, Edward
Forbes and his fellow-naturalist, William Thompson,
journeyed by Paris and Lyons to Marseilles, whence a

coasting packet conveyed them, by Leghorn, Naples, and
the Straits of Messina, to Malta. This circuitous route
had its advantages, inasmuch as it brought the travellers
within sight of much famous scenery, while the delays at
the intermediate ports enabled them to make short inland

excursions, as to Pisa and through Naples. At Malta,
on the 17th of the month, they found the "Beacon"

ready to start, and only waiting their arrival. Forbes
immediately adapted himself to his change of abode,
and the same afternoon wrote home to his father that
he was fairly installed in the " Beacon," and found the
quarters most comfortable. The vessel, indeed, being
fitted up expressly for surveying service, was adapted in
every way to scientific usages, and formed in consequence
a most advantageous home to a naturalist.

     A fair wind on the morning of the 21st bore the

" Beacon" away from Malta, but it eventually shifted,
and drove the vessel into the Bay of Navarino, where
Forbes spent three busy days, dipping his dredge for the
1541.  MEMOIR OF EDWARD FORBES.  275

first time in the Grecian seas. It was the evening of

the 6 th of May before the anchor was dropped at Syra,
the central port of the Archipelago.

     When Captain Graves left England it was his inten

tion to prosecute the hydrographical survey during the
summer round the coasts of Candia, and Forbes antici

pated a rich harvest of results, botanical and zoological,
from the ascent of its snow-capped mountains. Coasting
round Cape Matapan, they saw the white peaks in the
far distance sleeping peacefully on the deep blue sea.
But on reaching Syra they learned that these same peaks,
so placid themselves, were yet looking down on a scene
of wild tumult and uproar, for the natives had risen in
revolt against the Turks, and bloodshed and rapine were
spreading through the island ; with the risk of being
thus regarded by both parties as spies, and shot accord
ingly, it became plainly impossible to proceed with the
survey of Candia.

     During the uncertainty of the news from the island,
the " Beacon" remained anchored at Paros, and Forbes
employed himself, and likewise not a few of his naval

comrades, botanizing, zoologizing, and geologizing in
turn. The few weeks of his intercourse with the officers

and crew had sufficed to enlist all their sympathy and
assistance. " The first lieutenant," says Captain Graves,
" though anxious, as all first lieutenants are, to keep the
decks clean, never objected to the contents of the dredge
being spread out, but almost became a convert." The
captain's cabin was turned into a kind of museum, labo

ratory, and store-room, where the various animals brought
up from the deep were dissected, drawn, or stowed away
276         MEMOIR OF  CHAP. X.

in bottles, the captain himself lending every assistance,

and eliciting many a quiet clinical lecture from the
" oyster-dredger," as the sailors term a naturalist.

     " It was quite amusing," Captain Graves continues,

" to see how Forbes gained the good opinion of the sailors

of the ' Beacon,' and how they all endeavoured to add
to his collections. If a boat returned from surveying,
Ifthere were always some shells for Mr. Forbes.
                                                 the

seine was hauled at night, a lanthorn was always at

hand when the fish were taken out, to look for curios (as
Jack termed them) for their friend, and whether addi
tions or not, the donor always received an encouraging

answer, his present was accepted, the sailor felt gratified,

and was only anxious to search after other treasures of

the deep."

     With a whole crew of assistants, and the accumulat

ing results of his own explorations, there was, of course,

ample scope for the microscope and the pencil in the
evenings. And pleasant evenings they were when, the
surveys and dredgings of the day over, the officers met

in the cabin round Forbes, who, with the microscope at

his eye, and a pencil in his hand, sketched the anatomy
of the organisms that had been caught during the day,

chatting the while, in his own simple, impressive way,
about the form and habits of the creatures before them,

and enlivening the description with many touches of

quiet humour. Hours thus spent passed quickly away,

and when at last the microscope was put up, it was only

necessary to place a few scraps of paper before Forbes,

to open up another inexhaustible source of amusement.
" He would draw groups," says Captain Graves, " in
1841.  EDWARD FORBES.                      277

which we were all included as connected with our com

mon pursuit during the day, placing himself conspicuous

if anything ridiculous had occurred."

     On the 6th of June, when he had hccn in Paros less
than a month, he thus wrote to Dr. Percy : " At present

I am devoting my time more to observation than to
mere collecting, and I am especially occupying myself

drawing all the unpresentable animals (which in these

seas have been sadly neglected) that fall in my
       I have got some good work done already,
way.

having made coloured drawings of near ninety species,

many of which are apparently new, and throw much
Ilight on important biological questions.
                                           have also

commenced collections in botany, geology, and various

departments of zoology, which are beginning to make

a show.

     " My own chief object in view is to ascertain the

exact relations of animals and plants to each other in

these islands, so as hereafter to have a good basis for the
illustration of certain points in geology and philosophical

zoology, which can only be cleared up by a more precise,
and, at the same time, more generalized observation of

the Mediterranean than has hitherto been gone into."
     While at Paros he roamed with two or three com

panions over all the island, and likewise made excursions

to Antiparos and Naxia, In these rambles it was his

delight to encase himself in an old shooting-jacket, full
of pockets ; his long hair, surmounted by a " Jim Crow "
hat, hung down his neck ; his feet were shod with a
pair of primitive country boots, into which he tucked

the loose ends of his trousers ; a botanical vasculum was
278  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. X.

slung across his shoulders, and a stout hammer supplied
the place of a walking-stick. Thus attired, he wandered
over the hills and valleys of Paros and Naxia, dined and
danced with the natives, pitched his tent on the hill
sides, dredged among the bays and islets, and plied his
hammer along its shores. And though ever intent on
the rocks, plants, and animals that came in his way, he

had an eye too for the manners and customs of the
islanders, as well as an artistic appreciation of the
scenery of their isles. His letters contain numerous
references to the Turkish and Greek population of the
iEgean, and of both, but especially of the former, he
speaks in terms of commendation. He somewhat quali
fies his estimate of the Greeks, though in one letter he
foretells that " they will be a great people yet, and are
almost as interesting as the shell-fish that live on their

shores."

      Much of the transcendent loveliness with which his
early fancy had invested the " Isles of Greece," was
rapidly, and sometimes even rudely, dispelled by these
excursions. He found a group of bare rocky islands,
less picturesque in themselves than our own Hebrides,

and owing their attractiveness, apart from historical
associations, almost solely to the clear cloudless sky

above them, and the deep blue waters that laved their

shores. Yet were they hallowed scenes : their very bar
renness had in it something sacred ; their old civilisa

 tion was long since gone, but no new one had arisen to
efface the memorials of the past. And so, as Forbes

 wandered, antique recollections crowded upon him.

These isles and seas had for him something more than
1841.  EDWARD FORBES.  279

the common interest, vivid though it be, with which

every one regards them. The seas and shores around
him were the same seas and shores that had yielded
their denizens to the father of natural history, and now
he was re-discovering those forms which, in the hands of
Aristotle, had laid the foundation of his favourite science.
Thus, in addition to the historical interest of the scenery,
every plant on the hill-sides, every shell on the shore,
every fish in the sea, had an interest of its own, and in
gathering them, Forbes felt himself, in a peculiar sense,
on consecrated ground. The shadow of one great name
was around him, a name which, the further his own

researches proceeded, he felt himself the more constrained

to revere. It was doubtless with the recollection of

these, his earliest explorations in the Mediterranean,

that in after years he wrote :-- " Who that has ever

visited the borders of this classic sea, has not felt at the

first sight of its waters a glow of reverent rapture akin
to devotion, and an instinctive sensation of thanksgiving
at being permitted to stand before these hallowed waves?
All that concerns the Mediterranean is of the deepest

interest to civilized man, for the history of its progress
is the history of the development of the world J the
memory of the great men who have lived and died
around its banks ; the recollection of the undying works

that have come thence to delight us for ever ; the story
of patient research and brilliant discoveries connected

with every physical phenomenon presented by its waves
and current^ and with every order of creatures dwelling
in and around its waters. The science of the Medi

terranean is the epitome of the science of the world.
280  MEMOIR OF       CHAP. X.

The very name of that inland sea is the text from whichj>.
the sermon on all other seas must be preached."1

     Early in June, there being still no prospect of visit
ing Candia, Thompson, who was sick of the sea, parted
company with the " Beacon," and started for England.
By this change, an additional amount of work devolved
upon our naturalist, for his companion had agreed to
record observations on the vertebrata, both terrestrial

and marine, while Forbes himself undertook his own
favourite invertebrate division. He had reluctantly,
therefore, to abandon the attempt to collect the terres
trial vertebrates. Such birds as could be shot by his
surveying comrades were skinned and added to the stores
in the " Beacon." He allowed no reptile to escape ; and
with the aid of the seine and line, he continued to add

to his collection of fishes. But the great bulk of his
observations lay, of course, among the invertebrata,
chiefly the mollusca, owing to the comparative scarcity
of radiate animals in the bays round Paros.

      He had now been a month in this island. He had

scoured its hills, valleys, and shores for plants, insects,
and molluscs, and the collections and notes which he

had made represented pretty fully the flora and fauna of
Paros. He was ready and eager, therefore, to avail
himself of a triangulating cruise with Lieutenant Spratt
among the neighbouring islands.

      Their object was first to visit Naxia and ascend Mount
Jupiter, to make certain observations for the Coast Sur
vey. Starting, accordingly, about the middle of June in
the " Fanny" -- a boat of some ten tons, which acted as one

        i Literary I'ujien. By Eriwanl Forties. IxmkIon, Roove, 18.r>5, KMJ.
1841.  EDWARD FORBES.  281

of the tenders to the "Beacon" -- they passed down the Anti-
paros channel, among islands of marble and slate, picked

up one of the assistant surveyors on the way, and after sail
ing nearly round Paros, cast anchor at Naxia, in a sandy
bay among promontories of granite and gneiss. One of
the lieutenants was stationed there at the time, and with

him they arranged their ascent into the interior. It was

a short but pleasant journey. Their route lay first
through some salt marshes, abounding with mud-tortoises
and green lizards ; the road-sides were lined with aloes,
and mulberry trees, laden with fruit, dotted the fields.
Some parts of the way led through labyrinthine thickets
of reeds and brambles clustering around the base of some
steep granitic slopes, up which the mules toiled in long
eccentric procession. Many picturesque castles, once the
abode of the Venetian nobles, crowned the crags. In

some of these the travellers were fain to rest, meeting

everywhere with great kindness, especially from a fine
old Greek, who had done good service in the days of the
Revolution, and who was now spending his old age
quietly in a picturesque chateau among the Naxian hills.
His. son accompanied them on their journey along a
richly-wooded valley dotted with villages, and encircled
with steep jagged hills on every side, save one, where a
gap in the chain revealed the clustering islands of the
blue yEgean. Towards evening, they arrived in a village
at the upper end of this valley, on the slopes of Mount
Jupiter. Purchasing a lamb, they fared sumptuously,
and spent the evening on the house-top gazing down the
lovely dale, and watching the groups of peasants on the
neighbouring roofs, where the men chatted in groups,
282  MEMOIE OF  CHAP. X.

while the women plied the spindle. Throughout the day,

Forbes had been noting the natural history features as he

passed along ; every halt had given him an opportunity
to explore the zoology of a fountain or rivulet along with

the plants which bloomed around it : both the fauna
and the flora he found to resemble those of Paros. Early
next morning the summit of Mount Jupiter was gained.
In the ascent a few plants occurred, not elsewhere seen

in the island ; but the summit, though 3300 feet high,

showed the same plants and shells which characterized

the plains. The weather proving too misty for the ob
servations, the party descended by the Cave of Jupiter, a
large cavern romantically situated, but with hardly any

stalactites. In a river close at hand Forbes was delighted
to meet with his old friend, the little Ancylus fluviatilis
along with two paludinas. From this point the descent
lay along the track of the previous day, the travellers

calling again at the chateaux, and receiving a renewal
of their hospitality ; while at one of them, Forbes, not a
little against his will, was constrained by a Greek to pre
scribe for his wife. They arrived at their tents late the
same night. Next day, in making some visits in the

neighbouring town, Forbes was again compelled with
equal reluctance to act the part of physician.

     The remainder of their short stay in Naxia comprised
a visit to the Emery Mines, and an ascent through val

leys richly clad with vines, planes, olives, and oleanders,
to the summit of Mount Zia, from which, the weather

being now clearer, they could sec at intervals a wide ex
panse of the iEgean with its islands, and, far away to

eastward, the faint outline of the mountain peaks of Asia
1841.  EDWARD FORBES.  283

Minor. In spite of " mel-tems" -- furious winds from the
north-cast-*which compelled them to put into lonely
creeks and harbours, they succeeded in beating round

Naxia, and their mission being now over, joined the
" Beacon" at Port Naussa in Paros, after an absence of

nearly three weeks.
     After two days in Paros, naturalizing and getting the

news (for letters from home had arrived during their
absence), they set out on another cruise of a fortnight.
Revisiting Naxos they sailed round to Serpho, Thermia,

Syra, Myconi, and Delos. At Serpho they rambled

among the iron-mines, now wholly- abandoned, and over
such heaps of slag as to suggest whether it might not be
owing to the demand for fuel in Serpho that the Cyclades
had been stripped of their wood. The corpse-like head
dress described by Tournefort, as worn by the women of
Siphanto, likewise characterized those of Serpho ; a white
towel wrapped round the head, and a white bandage

strapped across the nose ! The natives seemed an indus
trious people, and in spite of the proverbial ruggedness of
their isle, they had covered its valleys with vineyards and
fields, and with meadows verdant as those of green England.
Land shells, however, seemed to have no love for Serpho.

      Dredging down Serpho Bay, on the way to Thermia,
Forbes had great success ; sinking the dredge in water
as deep as 95 to 100 fathoms. Thermia detained him

only a day, during which he visited the hot springs and
ascended to the highest point in the island. But the
vicws were not striking, though he found this in some
incisure compensated by the abundance of the land-

shells, of which there were many species.
284            MEMOIR OF                  CHAP. X.

     The ramble over Delos, amid endless heaps of shape

less ruins, filled up a pleasant day, of which some meagre
memoranda are concluded by a list of shells noticed on

the shore and in the interior. Reaching Myconi he
ascended the most eastern of its hills -- a mass of ser

pentine about a thousand feet high, where, as in Serpho,

he remarked the characteristic abundance of water-shells

on the rock, and the corresponding absence of land-
shells -- a phenomenon not due, as he remarked, to any

difference of vegetation peculiar to the serpentine tracts,
for the plants of this hill did not differ from those in
other districts of the island.1 From shells he passed
to the study of costumes, and marked with regret that

the picturesque dress once worn by the females of My

coni was now to be seen only on the oldest ; the young
women had adopted a Frank dress, while the middle-

aged dames blended the extremes, by fantastically com
bining the old dress with the new.

     An unlucky " mel-tem" detained the " Fanny" several

days at Myconi, during which Forbes had an oppor
tunity of watching the operations of the sponge-divers,
until the breeze moderated, and allowed the vessel to

return to Paros, where, to his delight, he found that

the boxes of natural history material, which had been

anxiously expected for weeks, had at length arrived

from England.

      Before making further collections he employed him

self, from the 19th of July to the 5th of August, putting

up the specimens already gathered, arranging and com-

   i The reverse of this was the case in  limestone at great distances, simply
Lycia, for there the serpentine tracts    from the distinctive character of their

conhl he distinguished from those of      vegetation.-- Travels in Lycia, ii. ] 59.
1841.          EDWARD FORBES.                                285

   pleting his notes, and bringing up the arrears which theaa
   last five weeks of busy dredging and collecting hadit,
                     it
   thrown upon his hands. To his sister he writes :--        a
               a
  I" The captain having fitted up a house on shore, have                   it a
                  a
    the great cabin at present to myself, and am making a
    sad mess of skinning fish and preserving specimens."
   Unfortunately the delay in the arrival of the boxes had
    prevented him from collecting plants to the extent
. he could have wished. While at Malta, he bought
   a quantity of paper, but his stock was too small to
   admit of the preparation of many duplicates. And now,
    when an ample supply had arrived, the flowering season
    was wellnigh over, and would have been useless to
    commence systematic collection that year. To botanize
    the islands thoroughly, he would require to begin in
    April, and he looked forward accordingly to botanical

   spring next year. In the meantime, he had endeavoured

    to make as complete herbarium as his opportunities
    would allow, and the results of his examination showed
    that the vegetation of all the islands yet visited was
    exactly similar, while up to a height of 3500 feet, the
    highest peak he had ascended, the plants of the Cyclades
    yielded no trace of sub-alpine character.

         On the 5th of August another cruise began. This
    time the "Fanny" was replaced by the "Isabella;"

    ship's launch considerably larger than the former, decked
    over and fitted out as tender. The cabin, such as

    was, had only sleeping-places for two, on hard lockers,
    while the men were sheltered under a deck forward.

    But the accommodation, though thus limited, was
    greater than in the " Fanny," and Forbes embarked
286  MEMOIR OP  CHAP. X.

with great glee on board of what he called his floating   .
palace. This cruise was to embrace a much wider
circuit than the last ; for, after visiting the southern
islands, it was Lieutenant Spratt's intention to stretch
across to Cerigo and the southern end of the Morea,
and to be absent from the "Beacon" for six weeks
or two months. In a nearly dead calm they sailed

from Paros, the current bearing them slowly onwards

through a glassy sea, unrippled save by the frequent
plash of the dolphins that gambolled past, until, late
at night, and just as the first moanings of the
" mel-tcm " were beginning, they dropped anchor under
the cliffs of Siphanto. Two days were passed in this
island ascending to its summit to make observations for
the survey, visiting its monasteries and noting its geo
logy and natural history. Land shells occurred in great
abundance among the slate and marble rocks, contrast
ing with the marked paucity of similar forms at Serpho ;
indeed, Forbes remarks that they were more numerous

here than he had ever seen them in any locality. A

snorting breeze bore them rapidly to Nio, where they

visited Homer's tomb, and enjoyed the frank and hearty
hospitality of the Niotes. The wind had gradually in

creased to a storm that detained them four days, three
of which Forbes spent dredging the bay where they lay
at anchor, and collecting material for comparison with
similar muddy bays of the Atlantic. They at last quitted
Nio, but erelong it blew so hard that to weather Amorgo
was found impossible, and they had therefore no resource
but to beat about all night in a raging sea, the
dangers of which they knew not, until at daybreak they
1641.  EDWARD FORBES.  287

succeeded in running for shelter to Port Vathy, one of
the bays of Amorgo, surrounded by high and rugged
mountains. The three days spent in this island were

among the pleasantcst our naturalist had yet enjoyed
among the Cyclades. The scenery had a mingled wild-
ncss and beauty such as he had never before seen ; huge
precipices plunging from the highest peaks of the island
sheer down into the sea, deep ravines of limestone, the
steep bare walls of which rose from tangled thickets of
vines, figs, and olives, the rich colouring of the vegeta
tion contrasting with the grey and purple tints of the
rocks, and the play of light and shadow, varying with
the broken outline of cliff, crag, and coppice, formed alto
gether a scenery which the artistic eye of Edward Forbes
could well appreciate. Nor, in spite of the acknowledged
poverty of Amorgo, did he find the people out of har

mony with their island. In the cool evening, when

returning from the rambles of the day, he occasionally
encountered groups of peasants laden with grapes from
their vineyards, who never passed without pressing him
and his companion to help themselves from the baskets.
The monks, too, delighted him. Like those he had seen in

the other islands, they were gentlemanly, intelligent men,
with no tinge of asceticism, but showing a generous and
hearty hospitality. Under their guidance, the travellers
visited the romantic monastery of Panagia, perched like
a swallow's nest on the face of a great cliff. While
Forbes sat sketching this strange group of buildings, a
monk from the neighbouring town, who was passing at
the time on his way to the monastery, begged leave to
examine the drawing, and being apparently satisfied with
288  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. X.

the powers of the artist, requested to have his likeness
taken. The request having met with a ready compliance,
the monk continued his ascent vastly pleased with the
 courtesy of the strangers. Next evening, however,
 Forbes iind his friend were somewhat surprised, on enter
 ing the town of Amorgo, to find themselves waylaid by

the same monk, who entreated them to visit his cell,

 where they found laid out for them a repast of fine
grapes and rakee. While they were enjoying his hospi
tality, he proceeded to attire himself in full canonicals,
and finished with an entreaty that Forbes should sketch
him in colours. This too was cheerfully granted, though
doubtless not without some sly joke upon the vanity of

the host. In the end, however, it appeared that vanity

was not the only actuating motive ; the monk himself
was a self-taught artist, and of some merit, as the port
folio which he pulled out very well showed. To meet
with a brother of the brush in Amorgo, was an event in
his life which he judged could only be fitly comme
morated by having his own portrait painted.

     From Ainoigo, the "Isabella" steered southwards to
Santorin, through swarms of the little fly-like pteropods
flitting along the surface of a tranquil sea. Entering

the great bay of Santorin, with its gigantic cottage-
crowned precipices, shooting up from an abyss which a
line of 1500 feet could not fathom, Forbes found him
self for the first time in a region of recent volcanoes.
Landing on Nea-Kaimeni, the voyagers scrambled up
the sides of that great cinder-heap, on slopes of loose
ashes and masses of lava, among which bloomed in pro
fusion the yellow-flowered Carlina, so common in the
1841.             EDWARD FORBES.                                           289

isles. In the crater, among tufts of the mountain-

bracken (Pteris aquilina), grew some solitary fig-trees,
the fruit of which was eagerly gathered. The Statice

clustered along the banks of a sulphury pool, in which

numerous boat-insects were paddling about, but no land
shells could anywhere be seen. Yet the isle was not

wholly devoid of traces of molluscan life, for in rambling

along the shore, that glistened with the rich hues of

volcanic sand, Forbes came upon a mass of pumice,
enclosing a layer of sea-shells (Pectunculi, etc.), evidently

occupying their original bed. It was, in truth, a coral

bottom, such as he had dredged dozens of times in
thirty-five or forty fathoms' depth ; and as it lay be

tween sheets of hardened pumice, four to six feet above
the water edge, it clearly evidenced that, after a period
of volcanic activity, shells and corals had spread over
the floor of the sea, until their growth was checked by
fresh igneous ejections, and by a final elevation of the

sea-bed to at least 200 feet above its previous level.1

                  of course, unknown in the bay of
       Anchorage  is,

Santorin, which, in truth, occupies the site of an ancientp.
                               ;
crater, not yet wholly dormant, for in calms and in

south winds, say the Thcriotes, there are often rumblings
and bubblings, and the water assumes sulphurous hue.
Sailing across this abyss to the harbour of Thcra, by
                                     a                                 if
                                           it,
                                                                              a
                                                a
that name they might designate mere indentation in
wall of rock, which rose 600 feet above the water, and

sank to an unknown depth below                   they moored the
" Isabella" to the rows of white-washed pillars which in

Santorin take the place of anchors.

i  Bril Ass. Iirp. 1843, 177 Lyell's Principles of Geology, 9th edit.  p.  443.

                                  T
290  MEMOIR OF                            CIIAI'. X.

     The exploration of this curious island occupied three

days. Toiling up the steep zig-zag road, cut along the
face of the precipitous cliff, they found on the summit a
well-built town with a half-Frank population, beyond
which lay a garden of vineyards in the finest order.
What in itself forms perhaps the most barren spot

among the Cyclades, had been scrupulously cultivated,
and the labours of the islanders had eventually trans
formed the margin of a crater into a paradise. Mount
St. Elias, to which, as the highest hill of Santorin,

Messrs. Spratt and Forbes proceeded, to make the tri
angulating observations, consisted of a metamorphic
limestone, rising out of the volcanic eruptions ; and
they were not a little interested to notice that, imme

diately on stepping upon this calcareous rock, they

encountered land shells (Clausilia catrulea and Jlclix

        ), which could not be discovered on the volcanic

part of the island, save near the town, where the quan
tities of Helix aspersa and vemniculata had been in

troduced from Crete as articles of food. The monks

who had perched themselves comfortably on the top of
the mountain, were a portly, hospitable set of men, among
whom lived the priest Cairi, in a kind of monastic im
prisonment. Forbes spent some time in conversing with
him in his cell, and found him possessed of great infor
mation and knowledge of the world, he having travelled
through Italy, studied two years in Paris, and visited

England to see Oxford.1 Here again Forbes's medical

   i Professor lilackie of Edinburgh has  admirers. By the favour of Mr. Glnu-
funiished the following particulars of
this Greek. "Cairi," he says, "was a      copis, one of his disciples, I have been

great man. He taught philosophy at        put in possession of some of bis philo-
                                          sophical works, which are written in a
Andros, mid formed ti school of devoted
                                          beautiful style, and display loarning,
1841.  EDWARD FOBBES.                        291

powers were called into requisition, as all who had any

ailment, and doubtless many who had none, came to

 him for remedies.

      Sailing from Santorin in another "mel-tem," they

passed a second stormy night at sea, this time with
greater risk and damage, losing their jib-boom, and hav
ing a quantity of dishes broken, until they anchored in a
sandy bay off Milo. The storm and fog still continuing,
they quitted that island, and making a rapid voyage west
ward, dropped anchor in Servi Bay, at the south end of
the Morea, under the high, richly-tinted cliffs of St. Angelo.
Dredging among the inlets and bays of this neighbour
hood, naturalizing along the shore, and ascending for
about 2000 feet among the hills on the east side of the
bay, comprised the sum of their six days' stay at Servi.

     On the third of September they sailed to Ccrigo,
dredging by the way in twenty, eighty, and one hundred
fathoms. Ccrigo being a British island, the voyagers
found themselves at home among English officers, and
spent three pleasant days in rambling over the country.

Among the more interesting scenes was a calcareous cave,
somewhat like that of Naxia, but much finer, from the
number and fantastic, often statuesque, forms of the sta
lactites. One of these, in the centre of the grotto, so
closely resembled a worn female statue, that it required
but little effort of the imagination to picture the cavein

profound thought, and sound judgment         not being exactly orthodox according to
in no ordinary degree. The most cha-         the local standard of the Greek Church,
racteristic trait of his philosophy, is the
deep root which it has in religion, a        he was persecuted as a heretic, suffered
quality which well entitles him to be        imprisonment, and died with all the
called the Plato of the Modern Greeks.       honours of a martyr in the year 1852. I
                                             have little hesitation in setting him
Notwithstanding this profound piety,         down as one of the most remarkable
however, which breathes in all his works,    men that modern Greece has produced."
292                                       MEMOIR OF                        CHAP. X.

a3 a subterranean temple dedicated to the patron goddess
of the isle. From Cerigo the " Isabella" paid a visit to

Cerigotto, partly for the purpose of ascertaining the truth

of a report that the latter island was rising from the sea.

Before they landed, the truth of the statement had be

come clear, from the dark belt, about nine feet high,

which rose from the existing sea-margin and wound

along the island, following all the indentations and irre

gularities of the coast-line. This band seemed much fur

                                          it,
                                                        a

                                                                  a
                                                                        a
rowed, and on examining Forbes found twelve furrows

or narrow terraces so marked, that on steep rock on

the left side of the harbour, they resembled line of steps

cut for the ascent of the rock. At height of eleven feet

above the present sea-level (as defined by Balani, etc.)
he cut deep score with the number eleven, and date
a
            a
1841, with the expectation that the mark would serve as

   test of the rate of elevation, for                it  appeared that the
upward movement still continued.

     Among the results of the Cerigotto visit, not the least

interesting, was the limitation of the antiquity of the

island's upheaval. On the left side of the harbour, near

the entrance, there                       hill crowned with some ruins --
a
                                   is
                                       a
remains of temples, baths, catacombs, and fortifications.

Descending from these towards the sea, Forbes discovered

  dock cut in the limestone, for launching galleys. The
lower limit of the excavations ceased at the upper edge of

the old sea -margin, and hence he inferred that the island

had risen nine feet since its colonization by the ancient
Greeks. This change of level, moreover, had operated
in most marked way on the fauna of the island, and in
a

working out this question, we see another instance of the
1841.  EDWARD FORBES.  293

readiness with which Forbes had begun to dovetail zoology
and geology. " The hill on which these ruins stand," he

notes, "is separated from the hills nearer the present

Itown by a deep ravine --a water-course. Here found

a raised beach, exactly where it ought to be, according

to the former height of the isle. It is now overgrown
with bushes of Pistachio lentiscus, etc. It is composed

of sand and shore-stones, mingled Avith cerithium (sp.
vulgatum and mamillatum), nassa neritoidea, and reticu
lata, and other shells, most of which live in sand at the
mouth of rivers. Now, as in the whole island there is

no sandy shore on which these animals could live, a
change has been operated on the fauna in consequence
of the rise. These are not shells such as are eaten

(there arc heaps of these also, chiefly trochus) ; but must
have been true natives of this locality." Other points
of interest occurred while exploring the geology and
natural history of this curious island, and altogether this
visit was one of the most useful as regarded his scientific
progress which Forbes had yet made.

      Returning to Cerigo, he examined more carefully the
geology of that island, especially the subdivisions of its
tertiary strata, the deep gorges and cliffs affording him
admirable sections. One of the most abundant fossils

was the pecten, so abundant, indeed, as to attract

vulgar notice, and our naturalist suggests that possibly
the immense quantities of it in Cerigo (the anciont
Cythcrca) may have been the reason why this shell [?]
was held sacred to Venus.1

     The voyage from Cerigo to Milo proved long and

      i It was the Porcellane or Cowrie thai was held sacred to Venus at Guidon.
294                 MEMOIR OF             CHAP. X.

tedious ; thunderstorms, waterspouts, adverse winds,
and stormy seas, all conspiring to keep the " Isabella"

uneasily beating about between the islands. Neverthe

less it became at intervals calm enough to allow the

dredge to be sunk to depths varying from 100 to 200
fathoms, until the anchor was dropped in the great

natural harbour of Milo. After ascending the hills and

zoologizing along the shores of this island with no par
ticular results, the voyagers started once more for the

rendezvous at Naxos. Dredging at intervals by way

of Argcntera, they reached Port Naussa on the 23d

September, after an absence of seven weeks, and thus
ended our naturalist's third cruise in the iEgean Sea.

     In writing to Mr. Thompson, three days after re

turning to Naxos, Forbes thus briefly sums up the

Inature and results of his researches :--" have been

incessantly occupied, and have made two long cruises.

. . . Weather has been very bad, and we were sadly

Iknocked about by storms all the summer, but suffered

in no way. Whenever it was possible we dredged, and
Ithe results are most important.
                                          have found a defined

fauna different from any other of the marine zones,

between 90 and 200 fathoms in these seas, and an

exact correspondence in its productions over all the

examined part of the iEgcan--a stretch of 200 miles.
I have found star-fishes alive at 200 fathoms ; Tettuue

and RissQCB at 150          bed of chalk full of Foramini-
     !

                  (!)

                          ;

                         a

                                       :

                      /
fera, and the shells of Pteropoda forming at the bottom

of these seas Moreover, the most characteristic shells

of this hitherto unknown region, are species only known

to conchologists an fossil                only have seen them alive
mi. EDWAllD FORBES. 295

and kicking. You can appreciate the value both to
geology and zoology of the discovery of this new sea-

country. We have dredged deeper than ever was done
before (as recorded), but it could never have been effected
except by Ball's little dredge, which has proved in

valuable. Tell Ball so.

    I" On land, have also found a number of interesting

results, especially as to distribution, but have not done
anything as to birds as yet--really from want of time,
Ifor every moment has been occupied.
                                      have now near

200 drawings of animals by me. Everything marine

has been well looked to, and no fish escaped skinning
if worth it. I let no fish pass, if the kind is not in the
Icollection. Next year may, perhaps, take up the land

animals.  All reptiles are of course secured, and all

coleopterous insects, of which my collection now looks

very respectable."

     Writing by the same mail to Mr. Patterson, he says,

" The sum of results I have gathered in this expedition

Iis most curious and interesting, and will end, am sure,

in conveying a clearer view of the iEgean Sea, considered

zoologically and zoo -geologically, than any existing

account of any other sea, not excepting the Irish. My

deep-sea dredging has shown me the necessity of a

similar course at home, and the incompleteness of our

home work until such is done. But how very few of
Iour zoologists understand these matters rightly.
                                                   al

most despair of any work of this kind being appreciated

in the present state of our science."
     During the absence of the " Isabella," whether owing

to Forbcs's medical skill, or to healthy air and food, her
296  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. X.

crew had escaped the prevalent summer malaria. But
the " Beacon " had not been so fortunate. Fever of a

deadly kind had broken out at Naxos, and when the
voyagers returned they found all in gloom, for half the
crew were invalided, and one of the lieutenants, the

only victim, had died. The cheerful face of Edward
Forbes was welcomed with no ordinary pleasure by the
saddened circle at Port Naussa, and went far to bring
back the old heartiness. For a fortnight he remained
there, arranging his collections, packing and preserving
specimens, making up his notes, and preparing for
another cruise. By the 9th of October, the "Isabella"
 was once more ready. Owing to the promotion of her
 late commander, the master of the "Beacon," Mr. Hoskyn,
 received her in charge, and with him Forbes started for

 the coasts of Asia Minor.

      In beginning another cruise, with the prospect of
 more continuous research in a limited area, Forbes saw

 that a great effort had now to be made. Although he
 had at intervals sent to England some of the more
 important results of the dredgings, he had failed to
 awaken that interest in his work which he anticipated,

 and which he knew it deserved. He had looked for

  help from tbe British Association, but in vain ; his

  researches received commendation, but no assistance.

  The Geological Society, more fully impressed with the
  value of such data as he was collecting in the iEgean,
 had voted him the balance of the Wollaston Fund (£30),
  and with this sum, and as much of his own, he began to
  meditate an excursion to Egypt, and a dredging expe
  dition down the Red Sea. In the meantime, however,
1841.  EDWABD FORBES.  297

he had arranged to accompany Mr. Hoskyn, and dredge
the Gulf of Macri with critical exactness, registering the
depths, and increasing the number of observations, whilst
his companion was employed in the same boat with the
soundings. The cruisings of the past summer had
enabled him to discard many of the notions with which
he had been impressed, in common with other naturalists,
as to the zoology of the iEgean ; and the new facts

he had gained, though slow of attracting attention

at home, were nevertheless of the highest importance.
They came up one by one in harmony with his observa
tions among the seas of his own land, and thus the
philosophical views which had been gradually dawning
upon him at home received a rapid development. He

felt sure that they were true, and this was enough to
urge him on, for the " oineromathic fire" still burned
strongly within him. He knew, too, that ere long their

value could not fail to be fully recognised, and he there
fore set sail for Asia Minor with increased determination

to work.
      The " Isabella " sailed from Paros on the 9 th of

October. Her course lay by Patmos, Cnidus, and Pvhodes

to the Bay of Kalamaki, on the south coast of Lycia,

The voyage, short as it was, proved full of interest, for
it enabled Forbes to spend a day or two among the
picturesque streets of Rhodes, and (what he valued still
more) to set foot in Asia. Speaking of the visit to the
port of Cnidus, he writes :-- " This was my first step

 into Asia, and to a naturalist all was promising. Instead
 of the dearth of insects, so disheartening in the Grecian

 isles, coleoptcra abounded under every stone, and on
298           MEMOIR OF                         CHAP. X.

each heap of cow -dung. New shells, too, gladdened me,

and several pretty plants."

     As the first part of the survey operations was to fix

certain points on the mainland of Lycia, Forbes had an
opportunity of visiting the ruins of Xanthus, and many
other ancient cities, ascending the mountains of Massi-
cytus to a height of about 9000 feet, and naturalizing

through a country till then unexplored. The route
followed by the travellers is indicated in Mr. Hoskyn's

paper,1 and the botanical, zoological, and geological re
sults of the tour were combined by Forbes with those of
a later journey, and published in 1847.2

     The second object of the visit to Lycia was to com
plete the hydrographical survey of the Gulf of Macri.
From the beginning of November till the 24th of the

following month, Forbes continued his dredgings among
the bays and islands of that part of the Mediterranean,
the great depth of the water (sometimes 230 fathoms)
at a short distance from land offering a new and curious

field for observation. The weather proved unusually

tempestuous ; he had, therefore, frequent occasion to

remain on shore, and busied himself with the geology
of the neighbourhood, and especially in detecting the
changes of level of the coast line, and in tracing the
progress of recent marine formations.3

     At the harbour of Macri he had likewise an oppor
tunity of studying closely the fauna of the littoral

zone, thereby adding some important facts to his pre

vious notes.

i Geograph. Sue. Jour. Xii. 152.    Sprntt.     Vol. ii, See especially  p. 120,
3 Ti-avtl* in Lycia. By Forbes and  et seq.     ii. 188, et « </.

                                        3/4iW.
1811.  EDWARD FORBES.  299

      Blending natural history pursuits with the explora
tion of cities that had been lost for centuries, sketching

tombs, temples, and theatres, mingling among the
peasantry, and prescribing now and then for their ail
ments, sometimes benighted amid briars, ruins, and
jackals in the wild uplands of Lycia, and well-nigh
wrecked among the rocks and skerries that fringe their
shores, these three months in Asia Minor formed no

uneventful period in the life of Edward Forbes. The
storms and dangers by which it was marked may, per
haps, have had some share in making it eventually a
pleasant retrospect, but the main source of gratification
to which it gave rise arose from the completion of his
iEgean researches. The dredge now seldom brought up
anything new ; he seemed to have exhausted the trea
sures of that classic sea, and he had done so in a way in
which no part of the ocean had yet been examined.

Much that he had previously only been conjecturing
now received the verification of facts ; much, too, that

he had not even conjectured gradually took definite
shape, and there eventually emerged that philosophical
outline which appeared in his Report on the j3Lgcan Sea,

and which raised him to a high rank among living

naturalists.

      Before tracing his further progress, let us glance very
briefly at some of the scientific results of Forbes's cruis-

ings in the Mediterranean. It will be remembered how

early he had begun to subdivide the British seas into
zones of depth, characterized by distinct assemblages of
animals. This bathymctrical principle of classification
was also applied by him, with singular success, to the
300       MEMOIR OF             CHAT. X.

Mgean. He found that the latter sea could be sub

divided into eight provinces of depth ; first, as around
his own native islands, came the littoral zone, which,

from the feebleness of the tides in those seas, did not

exceed a range of two fathoms.  The second region

reached from 2 to 10, the third from 10 to 20 fathoms

below the sea-level. The fourth region ranged down

to 35 fathoms, the fifth from 35 to 55, the sixth from

55 to 80, and the seventh from 80 to 105. Each of

these zones showed a marked and peculiar assemblage of

living beings, and could even be further separated into
sub-regions. The eighth region included all the space

explored below 105 fathoms, and embraced a depth of

750 feet. It was an unknown tract--a new sea-country

now added by Edward Forbes to the domain of the
naturalist. In the lower zones, the number of species

gradually diminished as the dredge sank towards the

abysses. From 230 fathoms below the sea-level -- the
greatest depth Forbes reached --he drew up yellow mud
with the remains of pteropods and minute foraminifera,

and occasionally a shell. From a comparison of his

observations, he conjectured that the zero of animal

life would probably be found somewhere about 300

fathoms.

     One of the most important results of these researches

was the discovery that those species which have the

greatest vertical range, are likewise those which extend
over the widest areas of sea, and hence that the

range of a species in depth is commensurate with its
geographical distribution. Another interesting and sug
gestive law of marine distribution, not hitherto proved,
1841.  EDWARD FORBES.                                        301

waa clearly established by these observations.               "The

assemblage of cosmopolitan species at the water's edge,"
says Forbes, " the abundance of peculiar climatal forms

in the highest zone where Celtic species arc scarce,
the increase in the number of the latter as we descend,

and, when they again diminish, the representation of

northern forms in the lower regions, and the abundance
of the remains of Pteropoda in the lowest, with the

general aspect of the associations of species in all, are

facts which fairly lead to an inference, that parallels in

latitude are equivalent to regions in depth, correspondent
to that law in terrestrial distribution which holds that

parallels in latitude are representative of regions of ele
vation. In each case the analogy is maintained not by

identical species only, but mainly by representative

forms ; and, accordingly, although we find fewer nor

thern species in the faunas of the lower zones, the num

ber of forms representative of northern species is so great

as to give them a much more boreal or sub-boreal cha

racter, than is presented by those regions where identical

forms are more abundant."1

       The bearing of these conclusions on geological specu

lations, he readily perceived and applied. Their value,

too, was soon admitted when he explained them to the

British Association at Cork, and much of his scientific

work in after life consisted in working them out more

fully in their application to the present and past races of

plants and animals in Britain.

       On the 23d of December the sounding-lead was

dipped for the last time, and on Christmas eve the

       i Iieporl of iht Jlritish Association, 1843, p. 130.
302  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. X.

" Isabella " entered the harbour of Rhodes, on her way
to Athens to rejoin the " Beacon." On reaching Rhodes,
however, the voyagers learned that Captain Graves had
just been there, and left word for the "Isabella" to join
him immediately at Macri, whither he had gone with
Mr. Fellowes to arrange the removal of the Xanthian
marbles. This unexpected event changed Forbes's whole

plans for the winter, and brought him back again into

Lycia among the scenes of his former explorations.
     He rejoined the "Beacon" at Macri on the 29th of

the month, and found Captain Graves on the eve of
starting on a visit to Xanthus, where Mr. Fellowes, with
a party of seamen, was engaged in excavating the sculp
tures. For two months, Forbes continued with Captain
Graves, making excursions in the south-west part of
Lycia, among the sites of ancient cities, and through the
wild scenery of Mount Cragus. During this period
Xanthus presented a lively scene ; sailors working en
thusiastically among the ruins, and natives gathering in
wondering groups to watch the discovery of the buried
treasure, which, according to oriental belief, lies con
cealed amid every assemblage of ancient ruins. By the
end of February, the operations were considered at an

end ; between seventy and eighty huge cases lay filled
with the relics of ancient art, and the excavating party
returned to the " Beacon," leaving behind the Rev. Mr.
Danicll, Lieutenant Spratt, and Edward Forbes, who

had resolved to make an exploratory journey through

Lycia.
      As a full narrative of this three months' tour was

published by Messrs. Spratt and Forbes, it need hardly
1842.  EDWARD FORBES.  303

be more thnn referred to here.1 Their route lay over
plain and mountain, and among the ruins of ancient
cities, the sites of which had been lost for many cen
turies. Skirting the southern shores of Lycia, and as

cending the valleys, which there open out towards the
sea, they visited the chain of cities from Xanthus to
Phasclis. Thence they journeyed by the route of Alex
ander's army,3 through the defiles of Mount Taktalu and
Climax into the plains of Adalia, and, following still the
march of the Macedonian hero, ascended the mountain

pass of Termessus, where, to their great delight, they
discovered the magnificent remains of that city, four

thousand feet above the sea. Descending into Milyas,
they explored part of the route of the Consul Manlius,
by the marsh of Caralitis, and through the richly-watered
Cibyratis, gaining at last the district previously visited
by Messrs. Hoskyn and Forbes. After a traverse of the
mountain-ridge which separates Cibyratis from the plain
of Almalcc, they returned to the valley of the Xanthus,
and so back to the shores of the Mediterranean at

Leveesy, near Macri.
     They had thus traversed Lycia twice ; first along its

southern maritime border, and then through the moun

tainous region where it merges into the neighbouring

provinces of Pisidia, Pamphylia, and Caria.
      The country was alike new to the geographer, the

antiquary, and the naturalist, and the journey, therefore,
proved one continued source of delightful excitement.
Hardly a day passed without revealing traces of ancient

                     ' Travels in Ijycia. Two vols. 1847.
                     · See Fortes' Natural History nf European Seas, p. 57.
304  MEMOIR OF  CHaP. X.

art, the site of a lost city, or scenery at one time of
softest beauty, and anon of wildest grandeur ; while over
and above all the ordinary interest of such a journey, the
frequent change of level and soil, now among low allu
vial valleys, now among the bleak, bare peaks of snow-
covered hills, afforded admirable scope for the observations
of a naturalist who had set himself to determine the geo
graphical distribution of the plants and animals of that
part of Asia Minor, and to attempt the elucidation of its
geological structure. Such was the task which Forbes
had proposed to accomplish. How he succeeded he has
shown in the second volume of his Travels in Lycia.

      Beyond the stray facts gleaned from the natives, he
could obtain little information relative to the wild ani

mals and birds of Lycia. No opportunity, however, was
lost of searching for land and fresh-water mollusca.

These can easily be collected with tolerable completeness
during such a journey as that of our traveller through
Lycia, and, as he well knew, they form a much better
basis for arriving at correct ideas of the zoological dis
tribution of a province than the few specimens of animals
of a higher grade1 which he might chance to procure.
Of insects, he collected a considerable number, among
which were many forms of an alpine or sub-alpine char
acter, distinguishing the general assemblage from that of

the Greek Isles, though as a whole it formed part of the

great Mediterranean province.
      Notwithstanding that the season of the year was not

the most favourable for investigating the vegetation of
Asia Minor, Forbes's botanical notes form the most com-

                                              i Travel! in Lycia, It. 71.
1842.  EDWARD FORBES.  305

plctc and valuable part of his sketch of the natural his
tory features of that region. Grouping the results of
his tour with Mr. Hoskyn in early winter, and with
Messrs. Daniell and Spratt in spring and early summer,
he found that the vegetation naturally arranged itself
into four zones or regions, ranging in succession from the
maritime plains and valleys up the mountain slopes to
the great yailafis or table-lands of the interior, and thence

to the higher peaks which rose from six to ten thousand

feet above the sea. The flora varied not only with the
height, but in a marked manner with the changes of
rock and soil, so much so that the geology of the country
could often be determined at almost any distance by the
strongly-defined characters of the vegetation.

     The geological results of the Lycian tour possessed
considerable interest. They showed the extension into
that part of Asia Minor of the great fresh-water pliocene
series of the Mediterranean, below which occurred in a

few localities an older marine group of marls, while in
Cos another marine series of later date was found to rest

directly on the denuded edges of the fresh-water beds.

There were thus-- 1st, A miocene marine formation, spar

ingly visible in Lycia, resting on the old scaglia or

Apennine limestone ; 2d, A vast fresh-water group, of

older pliocene age, lying unconformably on the former ;

and, 3d, A newer pliocene marine group, which reposed

unconformably against the second series, and in its im

bedded fossils corresponded with the later tertiaries of
Rhodes .and Sicily. But perhaps the most valuable
part of Forbes's geological observations is contained in
his details of the tertiaries of Cos, and his well-known

                                             u
306  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. X.

 account of the remarkable gradations in form there ex
hibited by species of Paludina and Neritina, arising, as
he showed, from successive changes in the physical char
acter of the area in which these forms lived. His obser

 vations upon the recent geological phenomena of the
coast of Lycia likewise deserve attention.

      For three months the travellers had heard no tidings
from England. Leaving Mr. Danicll, therefore, to pur
sue his antiquarian researches through other unexplored
tracts of Asia Minor (in which, alas ! he soon fell a victim
to the epidemics of the country), Messrs. Spratt and

Forbes embarked for Rhodes, where letters were waiting

their arrival. The vessel to which they committed them
selves was a crazy Turkish caique, with an old Turk, a
stout Arab, and two little boys, by way of crew. After

a passage of three days, during which they narrowly
 escaped shipwreck, they reached Rhodes, and found the

long-expected budget of home news.
      The intelligence which Forbes received was partly of

an unfavourable, partly of a highly-encouraging kind.
His father had met with losses which rendered it impos
sible for the son to receive any further remittances from
home. Yet as a counterpoise to these sad and dis

heartening tidings, Forbes found opening up to him at
last the prospect of independence. Congratulations and

encouragements -- the latter consisting not of words only,
but including a liberal pecuniary assistance -- came from
the British Association, while some of his friends, espe

cially his former fellow-student, Mr. Goodsir, were busy
canvassing with every prospect of success, for his appoint
ment to the Chair of Botany in King's College, London,
18J2. EDWARD FORBES. 307

then vacant by the death of Professor Don. He could

have wished the chair had been a natural history one,

for he felt diffident of his botanical acquirements, and
even alleged that nothing but the absolute necessity of

obtaining some remunerative employment would in
duce him to accept a lectureship of botany. To Mr.
Thompson he wrote, that by dint of exertion he might

perhaps be able to give a fair average course of lectures,

" and if I had that chair," he adds, " it would be a pret ty
Icertain step to Jameson's afterwards. Therefore hope

you and my other friends will back me. Settle in

London I must, and live by my wits. Tell me in your

next what is thought of my applying for the King's

College Chair."                          of the simple,
     This diffidence was characteristic   In actual fact

truth- loving mind of Edward Forbes.

he possessed a large amount of botanical knowledge, and

a capacity for original botanical research of no common
kind. And this became clear enough when he gave his
first course of lectures next summer. But he had not

devoted himself with the same ardour to botany as to

zoology ; and hence, in the former, still more than

in the latter, he felt himself far below his own high

standard of proficiency. Nevertheless, the chance was

one he could not allow to pass. The Natural History
Chair of Edinburgh he had long fixed on as the goal

of his ambition, and to this every move he made

bore especial reference. His previous exertions as a

lecturer we have already seen were unsuccessful, and
still more so his attempts to gain a professorship in

Scotland. But now the possibility of obtaining a Chair
308  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. X.

in London seemed a more hopeful prospect than any
which had hitherto appeared. His friends at home were
many, zealous, and influential ; he looked forward, there
fore, with sanguine expectations to the next spring,
when he hoped to commence his career in London as a
professor in King's College.

     In the meantime, something still remained to be
done in the East. The council of the British Association

had voted him £60, which was subsequently increased
to £100, to be expended in comparing the fauna of the
Red Sea with that of the Mediterranean. He had been

anxious to visit the Red Sea, and had even resolved at
one time to make the attempt at his own expense. But
the cost of such a journey proved to be considerably

higher than he had anticipated, and he was compelled

to abandon the idea. The long-expected grant from the
Association, however, revived it. His dream of dredging

down the Red Sea seemed almost realized ; he would

start for Egypt, spend two months in the explorations,
and still be able to return to England by the middle of
winter.

     Such were the plans with which, after, a pleasant
week in Rhodes, he started with Lieutenant Spratt in a
little caique to rejoin the "Beacon." But they were

doomed to be sadly frustrated.
      On the second day of the voyage, Forbes was seized

with fever. Contrary winds drove the frail bark out of
its course, and lulls kept it still out at sea. For eight
miserable days he lay in the bottom of the boat, without
medical advice or comfort of any kind, beyond what
his fellow-traveller could improvise from the scanty
1842.  EDWARD FORBES.                                                         309

resources of a caique. It seemed well-nigh a hopeless

case ; day after day rolled wearily away, and still no

progress could be made. The patient grew weaker as

the voyage lengthened, and his friend, in an iigony of

suspense, watched in vain for a breeze. At last, on the

ninth day, came the breeze so ardently prayed for, and
the vessel gained the port of Syra, where, by good
chance, the " Isabella" happened to be at the time.
After some delay, permission was obtained to put that

vessel in quarantine, and Forbes was removed on board.

Skilful medical treatment, and the kind attention of

his old friends, all down to the youngest sailor only too
anxious to please him, speedily restored the invalid to
health. He used to say, however, that had he remained

two days longer in the caique, he should never have left

it alive.

     On the 26 th June, while in quarantine, on board
the " Isabella" at Syra, he wrote a long letter to his

father. He was then recovering, but the handwriting
is very shaky. Yet his zeal seems to have been in no

way impaired by the fever ; for, after stating his pro

spects as to the Botany Chair, he goes on to speak of the

Association grant, and the necessity of his going to Egypt.

With a hand that appears to have been hardly able to
hold the pen, he writes, " Of so great importance to my
Ifuture welfare do feel the undertaking of the task to
Ibe, that shall make every exertion to do
       I                                                                      and to

                 is
                       is

                                                     a
                                                                    a

                                                                         it,
Egypt must go. Two months will do the work."
And all this narrated to the length of two full pages,

before he goes on to tell, as  much less important

matter, that he just recovering from fever that had
310  MEMOIR OF                               CHAP. X.

well-nigh cost him his life. "At present," he continues,
" I am recovering rapidly, but it will take a month's
Iquiet living on board the ' Beacon' before
                                             shall be

myself again." But Edward Forbes never was himself
again. His constitution, though healthy, was not strong,
and at this time it received a shock from which it

never afterwards fully recovered.       time for Port
     The " Isabella" sailed in a short  lay, and there,

Naussa in Paros, where the " Beacon"

among his warm-hearted friends, our naturalist speedily
rallied. The preparation of notes and specimens fur
nished an easy and pleasant in-door employment in the
cabin of the "Beacon," and before many weeks had

slipt away, the convalescent was able to resume his

old occupation of dredging in the bays and botanizing
among the hills and valleys of Paros. Such were the
employments which occupied the months of July and

August ; they imparted new life to his weakened body,

and inspired him with an earnest desire for the labour

and risk of another journey. The bright vision of a

dredging-boat on the Red Sea had now, however, again

grown somewhat dim, for a new calculation had only

served to heighten the expense. The grant of the Asso

ciation would be insufficient even for the mere scientific

part of the expedition, and the state of his family affairs

forbade him to look for fresh assistance from home.

Greatly against his will, he found himself compelled to

contemplate the probability of his having to decline the

grant. It almost seemed as if the intermittent fever

which had lately attacked his physical frame, had now

somehow settled down upon his hopes and plans. They
1SJ2. EDWARD FORBES. 311

underwent some change on the arrival of each mail,

even to the extent of an entire reconstruction, and for

some months this alternation, along with the uncertainty

and suspense aa to his prospects in England, continued

to annoy and disconcert him. Though once more active

and energetic, his friends saw with anxiety that he was

far from having regained his former vigour. Captain

Graves in particular urged him to return to England ;

a step, however, which Forbes was very loath to take,

until he knew more of the results of his application for

the Chair, and of the grants of the British Association.

When therefore, in the middle of August, news came

that the Association had increased its grant to £100,

nnd that his prospects as a candidate at King's College

were highly satisfactory, he no longer hesitated as to

the lied Sea expedition, but availed himself of the
" Beacon's" trip to Smyrna about the beginning of Sep

tember, with the view of adding to his natural history

stores and observations in that part of the Archipelago,

and starting thence for Egypt. From Smyrna he writes
to Mr. Thompson (September 9th), "The £100 of the

Association determines me to take Egypt on my way

Iback, and shall start for Alexandria soon, regulating

...my movements so as to be in England in the early part
of January.  At the present moment the cabin

table is covered with jars of salt-water, and dishes full

of the dissected members of a beautiful Rhizostoma,"

But again his plans were frustrated, and the African

voyage finally abandoned.

While lying in the Gulf of Smyrna, he received a

letter from his active friend, Mr. Goodsir, urging his
312                       MEMOIR OP  CHAP. X.

immediate return, in order to secure his success at

King's College, and through that the fulfilment of his

ultimate aims. The arguments employed were too

strong to be combated. Reluctantly abandoning what

had so long been a cherished prospect, Forbes prepared

to return to England. The steamer "Iberia" was to

sail the first week of October, and the interval was em

ployed in packing up his specimens, all of which he

brought home with him. All the bottles, paper, and

other materials that had not been used, he left on board
Ithe "Beacon;" " as
                          can assure you," he wrote to

Thompson, "there are active naturalists there now, on
Iwhom we can depend in future.
                                     retire from office
Iproud of having reared them, as feel sure the introduc

tion of the breed into the Navy will eventually be of

great service to our science." Without writing to any

one in England, and after bidding adieu to his friends
in the " Beacon," he set sail, and arrived in the Thames

on the 28 th of October.

      Before entering upon the details of Edward Forbes's
career in London, it may be well to review veiy briefly

his scientific progress during the period which has now
been described. This can the more fittingly be done,

since the close of his iEgean expedition marks also the
completion of a distinct portion of his life.

     "When he left Edinburgh for the East, he had spent
nine years more or less under the shade of his A Ima
Mater, with his master Jameson and many of his
earliest student companions still around him. The

Museum and the libraries were familiar haunts ; evcry
1S42.  EDWARD FORBES.  313

valley and hillside of his neighbourhood had been botan
ized ; every lake and stream had been searched for
mollusca. The Firth of Forth had been dredged from
end to end, as the stalwart fishermen of the coast could

readily testify ; and other parts of our seas had been
searched, far away among the Shetlands and the
Hebrides, as avciI as over the Irish Sea, and round the
wild Atlantic bays that indent the western shores of
Ireland and Scotland. As the result of all this home

research, and of the explorations which, from Edinburgh

as a centre, had extended into many foreign lands,
there had gradually been dawning upon him certain
philosophical views, which were afterwards worked out
and embodied in his best known memoirs. As yet,
indeed, they existed only in the bud, but they needed
nothing more than the fostering influence of a larger
experience to expand them into all the fulness of leaf
and flower.

     Edward Forbes was essentially a biologist. Even in
his earliest years, when his mind hovered bee-like over
the widc domain of nature, he estimated with rare
sagacity the limit of his range. Into the territory of
physics he never trespassed, save now and then as an
amateur in search of the beautiful, either in physical
law or in organic form and colour. At College his un
restrained and diffuse explorations had to be methodized,
and his tastes, equally botanical and zoological, taught
to exert themselves in special channels. The great in
fluence of Jameson, indeed, could not fail to inspire his
more enthusiastic pupils with a love for minerals and a

respect for mineralogical geology. Forbes soon became
314              MEMOIR OF                        CHAP. X.

passionately fond of mineralogy,1 but he never studied

it for himself, either chemically or mathematically, and

so soon as he removed from the influence of his master,

the love for minerals waned. But the training he had

received, proved of essential service in his after life, by

imparting a regard for lithological evidence in geological

research, and an ability to use it only too rare among

palaeontologists. He became eventually a geologist of a

high order, but it was through the biological, and not

the physical gateway that he approached geology.

     During his medical career, though careless in his

attendance on the purely medical classes, he was assidu

ous in his devotion to those of natural history and

botany. As the preceding pages have shown, he verified
the subjects of the lectures by personal observations, --

collecting radiata, mollusca, and insects (some of which
he carefully dissected), and botanizing for many miles

around Edinburgh. When the College sessions ended,

and he was left to the guidance of his own inclinations,

we can clearly see, from the mode in which he spent his

holidays, what were to him the most attractive fields in

nature. His earlier rambles, beginning with that to

Norway when he was eighteen years of age, were in the

main botanical.  From the first they had reference,

however, not to the structural or physiological characters,

but to the geographical distribution of plants. This,
indeed, continued through life to be his chief point of

connexion with botany, though afterwards it became

greatly widened by being linked with the consideration

   i The passion was revived in after life,  found himself once more amid that rich
                                             miucralogical collection which had so
when he returned to Edinburgh, to take       attracted him in his youth.
the place of hi.f master Jameson, and
1842.  EDWARD FORBES.  315

of geological changes. In his student days he knew
comparatively little of organic geology, and certainly
never practically applied his knowledge of living forms
to the elucidation either of extinct organisms or of former
physical conditions. He rambled abroad to collect

plants for his herbarium, and to mark how they are
associated in nature, and what reference the changes in
their mode of grouping bear to those of the grouping of
invertebrate animals.

    It was not until his first visit to the Jardin des

Plantes, in the year 1835, that the geography of plants
began to give way to the geography of animals. He
seems to have left the Parisian museums deeply im
pressed with the value and the necessity of wide and
accurate research into the distribution of the mollusca.

This is evidenced not only by his copious notes from
Ferussac, Drapernaud, De Blainville, etc., but more
directly still by the fact, that in leaving Paris for Swit

zerland, and travelling among the Alps, he devoted
especial attention, not so much to the botanical zones, as
to the range in altitude of the pulmoniferous mollusca.

      From this time, botany occupied a gradually decreas
ing share of his attention, and though the new fields of
observation which were presented to him, first in Slyria
and Carniola, and afterwards among the islands of the
^Egean, called forth, as we have seen, all his old zeal for
flowers, it was only for a time. The scientific memoirs
and papers of his later life bearing on botanical subjects,
though eminently original, resulted not from fresh re
searches in botany, but rather from the introduction of

well-known botanical facts into geological speculations,
316  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. X.

or of a geological element into the elucidation of botani

cal problems.
     His devotion to the study of mollusca increased

yearly, from the time of his first visit to Paris. When
he returned to the museums there, for a more lengthened
sojourn, in 1836, he acquired fresh knowledge and aug
mented zeal in the study.

     In Algiers, it was the land and fresh-water mollusca

that attracted him, and when he returned to his own

country he began immediately to set about the prepara
tion of a list of the Manx mollusca, which resulted in

his Malacologia Monensis. Next year he read before
the British Association a paper on the distribution of
terrestrial pulmoniferous mollusca in Europe, and this
gave rise to his Report on the Pulmonifera of Britain.

     In all these researches, it will be observed, that while

he by no means neglected the preparatory study of the
structure of the mollusca, it was their distribution in
space that more especially interested him. He loved to
trace the gradations of molluscan life, from the sea-

margin down into the depths, and to mark how it was

likewise grouped upon the land into distinct provinces
from the sea-margin to the mountain-tops. His bathy-
metrical researches in the iEgean first placed this sub
ject in a clear light. They bore practically, too, upon
geological speculation, and formed his earliest important
contribution in aid of the progress of geology.

      During his student years, however, he devoted him
self enthusiastically to careful and original researches in

systematic zoology. It was almost wholly in the inver

tebrate division that his labours were conducted, and of
lm. EDWARD FORBES. 317

that division chiefly among the radiata and the mollusca.
His papers on the medusae and the star-fishes, as well as
several contributions to malacology, show that he pos
sessed powers of discrimination, and of the perception
of analogies, such as placed him in no mean rank among

scientific observers. His researches among the British
Asteriadae, particularly deserve remark. His classifica
tion was a great advance on that branch of zoology, rais
ing the Sipuncvlidce into the ranks of the Radiata, and
placing the Ophiuridce, to use his own words, "as a
group equivalent to the star-fishes." His papers, in con
junction with Professor Goodsir, also contributed largely
to lay the basis of his future fame as an accurate and

philosophical observer.
     Of the zoological work accomplished by Edward

Forbes, during his residence in the East, as we shall see
in the subsequent chapters, only a small portion was pub
lished, and the greater part has thus been lost to science.
The results that bore upon the distribution of animals,
and tended to link zoology and geology in a closer
union, were alone embodied in his Report on the Mollusca
and 'Fuidiata of the ^Egean Sea, presented to the British

Association.1

    It was during his life in Edinburgh, and his sojourn

in the East, that he accomplished most of his purely
zoological work. The memoirs in this branch of science
written by him in after years, sprang, to a large extent,
from those early researches. Hence in viewing Forbes
as a zoologist, we must in justice to him remember that
his zoological career was almost wholly confined to the

                                                  <See Ante, p. 290.
318       MEMOIR OF                                                       CHAP. X.

period preceding his twenty seventh year. The course
of his after-life was thrown into other channels, and only

fitfully, and almost as a kind of by-thing, could he find

time for those zoological and purely natural history pur
suits that occupied so large a portion of his time at Edin
burgh and in the Levant. He availed himself partly of
his own early work, partly of that of his friends and con
temporaries, to form the basis of broad generalizations or

of striking and eminently beautiful hypotheses.
     There is another field of inquiry in which Edward

Forbes during his student life loved to indulge, and
in which some of his favourite speculations were con

ducted. He himself called it Psycho-Zoology. Unfor
tunately there exists no other record of his early views on
this subject, than that contained in the syllabus to his
course of lectures in conjunction with Dr. Samuel Brown.
Part of this syllabus, in which we can detect the germ of
some of the views which he subsequently elaborated, may

be appropriately quoted here.

          " PSYCHO-ZOOLOGY.

animTahl eksintugddyomo.f--lifePreapnadratiniotenlleoctf   as       illustrated by the study of the
                                                          the       world for the reception of living
beings --Relation of organic and inorganic matter-- Life not the result

but tlie  caanuismeaotifngorgsapniriizta--tioDn,isttihnectitoenrms  life  nn expression of the presence
of the                                                               of
                                                                          animal and vegetable life --
Threefold constitution of the animal organism -- Substance, Form, and

Intellect.

     Development of Form. -- Doctrine of the progression of forms --
Rclationsof form to substance and intellect-- Progressive complication
of organization --Distinctions between the analogies and affinities of ani
mal forms -- Regularity and irregularity -- Parity and imparity -- Polarity
-- Metamorphosis -- Number considered as an element of form.

     Development of intellect --Doctrine of the progression of intellect
1842.  EDWAIID FORBES.  319

-- The animating principle -- The passive animal intellect--The active
animal intellect or understanding --The combination of both in man
with the angelic intellect or reason -- Instinct and sagacity considered
and referred to the understanding -- The intellectual powers of animals

briefly considered parallel between the development of Form and Struc
ture and that of Intellect.

      Views of Naturalists, Metaphysicians, and Physiologists on Psycho-

Zoology--Metaphysical Natural History systems -- Comparison of linear,

dichotomous, circular, and irregular systems.

    Man considered as an animal --The races of men -- Correspondence
of physical and intellectual characters in men --Relations of the mind
to the structure and functions of the body --Geographical distribution
of man compared with that of other animals --Influences of natural his
tory causes on that distribution, and on the social conditions of man --

Influence of the structure, fauna, and flora, of a country on the opinions
and habits of men, and on the formation of character national and indi

vidual --Application of such considerations to moral and political science
--Influence of the study of natural history on man's mind, in Science,

in Literature, and in Art.

      Prospective view of the benefits to be derived from the study of

Psycho-Zoology -- Moral of Natural History --Humility and Faith.

     Amid the patient gathering of facts relative to the
distribution of plants and animals, Edward Forbes found
in geology the bond that was to link these facts together
into a symmetrical whole, and in carrying out this line
of research, he probably did greater service to geology
than to any other branch of the natural sciences.

    It was from the biological side, therefore, that Forbes
entered the geological ranks. In his explorations of his

native island, he had been struck by the arrangement of

shells in a raised beach, and in dredging the neighbouring

sea he found a shell-bank, which if elevated above the

sea-level, would present, he could not doubt, an appear
ance exactly like that of the raised beach.
320  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. X.

     He soon perceived that the thorough investigation
of the mutual relations of zoology and geology would
yield a rich harvest of results. He viewed these relations
as twofold, 1st, Geo-Zoology (or Palaeontology), which
dealt with the zoological characters and relations of fossil

animals, and 2d, Zoo-Geology, which embraced the study
of animal conditions, and of the associations of living ani
mal species as illustrating those of extinct forms and the

geological strata containing them. Among the influences
affecting the distribution of animals and plants, he re
garded as of primary importance, climate and geological

structure, the secondary influences being the physical
features of the country, its wood and water, and the
agency of man. But though he admitted oscillations of
level to be a cause of the modifications of the organic
productions of the sea-bottom, he had not yet perceived
how closely geological changes of climate, and of the re
lative level of sea and land, could be connected with the

present distribution of a fauna and flora. There were
fallacies in the reasonings both of zoologists and geolo
gists, and these, he said, could only be eradicated by
combining their common studies, in other words, by the

study of Zoo-Geology.

    It was through zoology that Edward Forbes became a

geologist, and amid the engrossments of his London life
it was in the main through some of the many geological
avenues that he returned to zoology. And in thus passing

and repassing between these sciences, he opened up many
pathways through the intervening debateable land of
palaeontology, clearing away the entanglements that had

hedged up the biological sciences on the one side, from
13-12.  EDWARD FOEBES.  321

the non-biological on the other, and making the com
munication between the two regions surer and easier and
pleasanter than it had ever been before. This was the
great work of his life during the period on the details of
which we are now about to enter.

        X
                      CHAPTER XI.

LIFE IN LONDON, AS CURATOR OF THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY,

        AND PROFESSOR OF BOTANY IN KING'S COLLEGE.

     The close of Edward Forbes's sojourn among the
Grecian seas was also the close of his life of unfettered
liberty. Hitherto the liberality of his father had freed
him from the need of working that he might live, and
he had therefore striven to live, that he might work.
Free to choose his pursuit, and free to follow it as he
chose, or leave it when he liked, the liberty of youth
had, in his case, run further into manhood than it does
with most men. And though he had felt the necessity
of obtaining some remunerative employment, and as we
have seen had laboured most anxiously to that end, it
was rather because he longed to be independent than
because he feared to be in want. But more than this,
whether he succeeded or no, he had never suffered anxiety
about his home circle, and the consciousness that his ill
success could not involve any of the loved ones in the
island, had made him light- hearted when everything
seemed to be going against him in Edinburgh. But
matters had sadly changed during the nineteen months
of his absence. His father, hitherto prosperous as a
trader and banker, had lost everything, and Edward now
1W2.  MEMOIR OF EDWARD FORBES.          323

found himself charged with responsibilities and duties
which he had little dreamed of only a few weeks before.
To solicitude for his own livelihood was now added

anxiety for the lot of those who had the greatest claim
on his love and labour.

    It was only when he reached this country, and

actually saw the state of his family affairs that the truth
stood out in its full proportions. But no sooner did

he perceive the urgent necessity for exertion than he

plunged into the vortex of London life, with a vigour
and a self- denial beyond all praise. For ten long years
from this period, he remained the servant of others, doing
mill-horse drudgery at one time, groaning under the
endless trammels of Government routine at another, and

only able at intervals to take up, as a secondary matter,

the original natural history work which he so loved, and
which he knew so well to be his own proper field of

labour.

     The " Iberia" arrived in the Thames on the 28th of

October 1842. The quarantine arrangements detained
her for several days at Stangate creek, and during this

vexatious delay Forbes wrote to his friend and publisher,
Mr. Van Voorst, to know what had been the result of the

application for the chair in London. The return of the

post brought the intelligence that he was now Professor

of Botany in King's College.   Writing  to Mr. Thompson,
immediately after the receipt  of this
                                        Inews, he says, "

have this morniDg received the very satisfactory answer

Ithat have been elected at King's College. This is very
I Igratifying to me, as was uneasy lest had lost all

chance of it by my absence. Regarding arrangements
324  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XI.

Iabout lectures, etc., as yet know nothing, but suppose
I shall not be called upon till spring, and have plenty

to do in the meantime. . . . Much of my plans must,

Ihowever, depend on what find my financial prospects
Iare, when inquire in town and hear from my father."

 When at last he reached London, he found his financial

prospects gloomy enough, --less than £100 a year from

the professorship, and no help from home. To eke out
the sum to an amount sufficient for his support in Lon
don, it would be needful to embark in a series of literary

enterprises, furnish reviews and articles for the periodi
cals, and engage in any hack-work that could be got.
True, this would make sad inroads on the time which

should be given to the arrangement of the vast mass of
natural history material collected in the East. But stern
necessity would admit of no compromise.

     It was while revolving such plans, and cataloguing

the botanical museum of the college, preparatory to his

lectures, that an event occurred which contributed mate

rially to alter the tenor of his life. The collections of
the Geological Society of London were superintended by
a Curator appointed by the Society at the salary of £150
a year. The duties of this office, besides the guardianship
of the museum, included also the editing of the Society's
Transactions, the curator being the chief scientific con
sulting head of the Society's establishment at Somerset

House. The appointment had just become vacant by
the resignation of the veteran geologist, Mr. Lonsdale.
An angry dispute had arisen in the Society as to the
claims of the new candidates, a dispute so serious, indeed,
that some of the foremost leaders had intimated their
EDWARD FORBES.  325

 intention of quitting the Society if a certain one of the
 candidates was elected. In these circumstances they

 went to young Forbes, begged him to stand, and as
 sured him of success. Under other circumstances, he

 would at once have declined the offer, for he knew the

 sacrifice of time it would require. But the salary de
 cided the matter, and under the auspices of Murchison,
 Lyell, Fitton, Taylor, and other leading Fellows of the
 Society, he agreed to become a candidate. His doing so
he " believed was a God-send to the Society, as it in a
great measure relieved both parties of their difficulties."
 Referring to these proceedings, he remarks in a letter to

ICaptain Graves, " took no part myself, neither canvass
Iing nor asking anybody to support me, and when was

 asked to send in testimonials as all the other candidates

I Ihad done, refused at once, as considered that mode

of doing things all humbug." He thus balances the ad
vantages and disadvantages of the post in a letter to Mr.
Thompson, headed, "19 a, Golden Square, London," but
without any date. " The advantages are these, in the first
place, A salary which, under my present circumstances, is

an object to me ; 2d, A good library at my disposal ;
3d, An opportunity of studying thoroughly the fossil
invertebrata ; and, 4Ah, A personal communication daily

with the leaders of science in London, and a reputation

in the most popular, most influential, and most numerous
body of admirers of science in England.

   I" On the other hand, shall be tied down to daily

attendance in the Society's rooms for eleven months in
the year, have the greater part of my time taken up
with the business of the Society, and have little or no
326                                   MEMOIR OP        CHAP. XI.

Itime to work up the immense mass of materials which
Ihave at hand, and which nobody can use till have put
IIfthem in order.
                                      a

                                            ;

                                                    II
                                                                       I iIt,
                                      could afford to do without

would not take the office but as my professorship will

not bring in £100                     year, and as have no other

resources to depend upon at present, must take what

can get, and give up working at science for the mere sake

of science, for, between the mechanical work of prepar

ing my lectures, and the work of the Geological Society,

can see no time for other things, unless few horn's
I                                     is a
                                                        is
                         is
                                                     I is
                                                        I it a

                                                                                                                      ;
snatched to fulfil my engagement in writing the 'Rambles.'

The prospect therefore dreary one, but must be put

up with. Everybody here very kind and attentive, and

all urge me to bring out the results of my late travels
-- all fine talking, but of no use, until Fortune's wheel

takes turn more in favour of science than ever did
      ;I a
yet in our free country. Accordingly, for the presentif
no iEgean Nat. Hist, or Prodromus
                                                    in the oven,

since there no oven to put them in.is               shall remain

in town till the Geological election over. If get the

place,    shall go to Edinburgh for a week, and pack up
there
            not, shall go there for the winter. In the
          I
             I
meantime, shall be fully occupied making list of the
                                                    a

botanical preparations in the King's College museum, in

order to see what shall want additional for my lecture.
It

      is
          '

                                   :

                 I
        too bad nobody will write notice of the Star
                                      I                it,
                                          a
fishes in the Annals. 'Tis not care about                     '
                                                       but on

Van Voorst's account wish it. Is a book to be passed
     I
                a

                 it
                    it

                            is
                                a

                      I
over because                          good book Do you or Patterson
                                      ?

give him lift. He laid out much money on that book,

and fear will not repay him for very long time.
                                                 a
1S42.             EDWARD FORBES.                        327

No publisher will publish invertebrata if his books are to

...be passed without comment, because the subject is not
generally understood.      I have become a petitioner
Iat the Linnean.
                  begrudge the expense, but as King's
ICollege professor must do so, or it would do me harm.

The other day Robert Brown told me he approved of
Imy election, and that if came to see him, he would
Igive me advice.
                  take this from his majesty as a com

pliment." Again, in another letter to the same friend,

written on the day previous to the decision of the geo

logical curatorship, when his chances of success were
tolerably secure :-- " Having the office will enable me to

live in London. £150 is the salary (no doubt small

enough for the work), but if they get richer they will

probably increase it. My chair may be counted as £100

certain (I am £60 in hand as it is), and I hope to make

it worth more, as King's College is going ahead fast.

£50 more by odds and ends will make £300, which will

enable me to have good rooms in town, live comfortably,

and make an annual excursion to the Association, and
Ifamong my friends.
                           they build a new hospital for

King's College (and they talk of doing so), the whole

may turn out even better than the Edinburgh Chair, as

students are very few there at present ; chairs worth

£800 a year seven years ago, now not producing £300.

On Saturday I go to Edinburgh for ten days, when
       I

                                                         it,

                                                                                                                    :

                                                                           (if
installed) must be back to take office."
     His visit to Edinburgh, though short, was full of

pleasure, both to himself  and to his  wide  circle of  friends
there. Dr. Bennett, in      referring  to       writes    " We

shall not easily forget the pleasure we then experienced
328                 MEMOIR OF               CHAP. XI.

in looking over the rich portfolio of drawings he brought
with him. Water-colour drawings, sketches in pencil

and chalk of eastern landscapes, marine views, temples
and ruins, groups of Turks and Greeks, picturesque

costumes, comic incidents, mingled with sketches of

plants, shells, fishes, and other objects of natural history,
--the whole forming a characteristic medley, indicative

of the character of his observations and skilful method

of treating them."

     The main object of his visit to the northern metro

polis was, of course, to arrange the removal of the books,

specimens, and other household gods which had been for
years accumulating in his " happy den," as he called
at the top of the stairs in 21, Lothian Street, and which,
     I
                    I

                             II

                                       I

                                                                                      ; is it,
when starting for the East, he had allowed to remain in

Edinburgh. During his stay in the north, his election
in London was confirmed. " believe," so he wrote at
the time to Mr. Patterson, " the geological matter

settled in my favour. When glance over the heaps of

work have to do, almost wish was disappointed

but needs must."

     Another object in visiting Edinburgh, was to arrange

with Mr. Goodsir regarding the anatomical dissections

of some of the Mediterranean stores. To Captain Graves
"Ihe writes, 1st January 1843,
                                   have made preparations

for commencing Illustrations of the Zoology of the
          if
                               '
                                                 a
                                                    I
                                                          I
iEgean Sea,' according to our plan. The Goodsirs are
making splendid dissections of the animals. When

have the drawings, etc., of part prepared,  shall

then see  [Captain] Beaufort can get assistance [from

Government] for its publication."
EDWARD FORBES.  329

      About the end of December he returned to London,

and entered on the duties of Curator of the Geological

Society to which he had been triumphantly elected.
His previous sojourns in the metropolis had been short,
and occupied chiefly in visiting his friends, or ranging
through the treasures of the museums. On the one
recorded occasion (ante, p. 259), when he went to town
with the avowed intention of working, his signal failure
in the attempt called forth, as we have seen, the merry

taunts of his Belfast friends, though he consoled himself

with the reflection, that if he were fixed there in lodg

ings, he certainly would work. Nevertheless, he was
fully aware that, to a naturalist of his temperament,
London could never be a fitting place for study. Only
the necessity of making science yield him a livelihood,
and the consciousness that nowhere could he better seek

for this than in London, had induced him to settle there.

It was with the full persuasion, therefore, that he must

expect rather to do the work of others than his own,
and to find only short and fitful intervals for the pro
secution of original research, that he returned to London

as a permanent residence.
     But even his gloomiest prognostications fell far short

of the reality. The constant hurry and bustle of the
first week after his installation was, of course, regarded as
the recognised ordeal through which every public servant
must pass, until his experience becomes enlarged, and the
curiosity of the public has somewhat abated. But the
lapse of weeks brought no (liminution in the demands
upon his time and labour ; nay, the more he toiled after
leisure, it seemed to fly the farther away. This is
330                                  MEMOIR OF                                       CHAP. XI.

brought out with a melancholy graphicness in his letters to
Mr. Thompson. Under date January 6, 1843, he writes :--

    " Dear Thompson, --Pardon me for my negli

gence, but one of the greatest evils of my present

position is the run it makes upon almost all my time.

I have now put off answering your note two days, in

hopes of getting to the British Museum about the hare,1

but in comes one ' big-wig,' and then another, and then
some F. G. s. would ask ' a little question about a few

fossils,' and then the Athenaeum is waiting for the

abstracts, etc. etc. etc., so that my hours from eleven to

Ifour are run away with entirely, and, before can get

out of Somerset House, the other museums are shut up.

You are aware the Zoological Society's collection is

boxed up and unconsultable in an old warehouse. Will

Inext week do ? The first spare hour will run up to

the Museum           possible on Monday), about that are
     " About your book on Irish vertebrata, etc., publishisI
                                                                is,
by all means, and at full length.(if                                     !
                                                                            a
                                                    I   differ altogether

from Patterson about the length. My rule                                             short

in the Annals, and long in the volume. The shorter

paper  the better, and the fuller book.                                              have not
                                                    Ia
had time yet to read your latter papers on birds, but

will by and by, and tell you what think. Draw up

the Report for the British Association by all means. It

need not be so special as that on the vertebrata.                                    A

general view                   what                     expect to be at
\                                    is    wanted.
  i                                        I
                            :                 I

                        is
Cork, God willing, and will do all can to help you."

    Again --
    " Dear Thompson, --Time time time no time
                                           !
                                                              !
                                                                                  !

    Mr. Thompson was at this time in-      with the Lepus variabilis, or alpine hare
iitigating the identity of the Irish hare  of Scotland.
1843.             EDWARD FORBES.                           331

Inow, fear, for anything ! You say I'm lucky, but you

are far luckier yourself in being able to work at what
Iyou like, and at your own work.
                                      have put off day

after day answering your letter, and now the end of the

week comes, and it must be put off till next week. I

have not been able to get to the Museum, even to deliver
Ia letter from Johnston to Baird yet, which have had
Iin hand two weeks. don't know how the Mediterranean
Iwork is to be got over, and, as to my lectures,
Inot had time to touch them yet.                  have

                                  wish to God some
Ibody would leave me £300 a year, and then would

keep my professorship and work out my work ; but, asA iIs,

it see no prospect."

        few days later he writes again -- *

                                                            " Geou Soc., Monday, Feb. 1843.

     " Dear Thompson, -- You mistake me, you fancy
                                  :

                                          if
                                                                      6,
                                                                              ;
I  find fault with my work and amount of occupation

what annoys me    I isthat, under such circumstances, all

the original matter have collected must lie dormant.

The honour of Britain concerned in the matter
                        is            I
                                              (is
not that fine idea) for, in the meantime, whilst ama;
making abstracts, and writing catalogues, etc., some

rascally Frenchman will sift the Mediterranean, and

claim the glory for his own country. You so far off can

scarcely form an idea of the mass of material have
               I;
                              is,
                                                       a

                                              I
                                                        I
collected when with Graves. One point, however, must

be done that the general Report on the Mollusca and

Radiata for the British Association.  wish you were

here to lend me a hand, for then we might sift out the

zoophytes, sticking both our names after the new species

(which, expect, will be not few), and thus get over
332  MEMOIR OF                                                          CHAP. XI.

work in double quick time. You really must come up
Iand work ; promise you lots to do ; and then you can
Ilook at the hare yourself.
                                 am ashamed to say that
I have not been at the Museum yet, but the fact
     ;

             it

                I
                        I

                          I
                                Ia

                                                         it

                                                                                                   ;

                                                                                 is,

                                                    I it
won't do to leave this between eleven and four (my

hours), as the Council people drop in continually.

did intend to return you Rossmassler1 at once, but have

changed my mind, unless you are in hurry for                                      for,

in case you come up soon, will keep the land and

fresh-water species of mollusca for joint description also.
Without co-operation can do nothing as things go.

Searles Wood itches after the zoophytes, and Rymer
Jones also but won't do. You must come and do

this with me as prior claimant.  am surprised at and

regret much what you say of      . suppose some

evil wind of bad fortune has blown him from his

business. Far better, however, do anything than turn
man of letters in London. The last of the chairs went

to Webster, and at best they are worth but little.
fear over-estimated the value of mine when said
aI

                                      a

                                     I
                                           I

                                                I
                                                      is I
£100 year. The Scotch chairs are better, but there

none for which he has chance.         wish was well

enough off to share my places with him. But literature
and science are at a pecuniary discount in England.

There are crowds of men of letters on the town in
London, just not starving and no more. It
'                                                                                 very

                is
                                               ;a
                                                          is

                                                                   is
                                                                               a
bad look-out at best. Unless man can take the top

of the tree he wasting his time and health in climbing.

All the fruit grows at the top there  nothing but

spines on the trunk and lower branches. Could not

     Ilossmiissler's Diagnosis ConcIujliomm terrestrium Ufluviatilium.
ISM. EDWARD FORBES.                        333

, with his mercantile knowledge, get a situation in

some good firm here, and then his leisure hours might

If Ihelp, when given to his pen ; otherwise, at his age,
he is about to run a sad risk.  hear of anything
Ithat will suit or help, will write you, and, at any rate,

will look sharply out, but fear much.      , he cer

    I" am surprised at what you say about

tainly seemed rather a rough diamond, but at the same

time straightforward and open. May it not have been only

a pen roughness which dictated his note to you 1 By

the bye, Taylor has been at me every other day for the

last two months, to let him put my name among the
Imyriad editors of the Annals.
                                have not given in

yet, and have objections, but one argument in favour

Iwill fear overturn them, viz., living here is so much
Imore expensive than living in Edinburgh, that must
save all I can in the way of buying books, and joining

him will get me the Annals for nothing, and a share of

Ithe books sent to them. All should have to do is what
I do now, be a reference for papers sent in."

Two days afterwards, in a letter to the same friend,

he again refers to this project of inserting his name as

one of the editors, and to Thompson's zoological papers
sent in for publication in the journal. " As to the papers

Iin the A nnals," he says, " think they are, if anything, too

full for a monthly journal. They are just the right thing

for chapters in a book, but a journal is only taken up for

consultation, and the consulter requires his results in as

brief and compressed a form as possible. For my part

I(but do not mean to set my opinions up against every
Ibody else's), object to popular papers in a journal, un
332         MEMOIR OF                                                     CHAP. XI.

work in double quick time. You really must come up
Iand work ; promise you lots to do ; and then you can
Ilook at the hare yourself.
                                 am ashamed to say that
I have not been at the Museum yet, but the fact
        ;

                 it

                   I
                           I

                             I

                                                                               .

                                    I

                                                            it

                                                                                                      ;

                                                                                    is,

                                                       I it
won't do to leave this between eleven and four (my

hours), as the Council people drop in continually.

did intend to return you Rossmassler1 at once, but have

changed my mind, unless you are in a hurry for                            for,

in case you come up soon, will keep the land and

fresh-water species of mollusca for joint description also.

Without co-operation can do nothing as things go.

Searles Wood itches after the zoophytes, and Rymer
Jones also but won't do. You must come and do

this with me as prior claimant.  am surprised at and

regret much what you say of           suppose some

evil wind of bad fortune has blown him from his

business. Far better, however, do anything than turn

man of letters in London. The last of the chairs went

to Webster, and at best they are worth but little.
                                 I
                                         I

                                                I
                                                     is I
fear over-estimated the value of mine when said
aI
£100 year. The Scotch chairs are better, but there

none for which he has chance.    wish was well
            a
                   a
enough off to share my places with him. But literature
and science are at pecuniary discount in England.

There are crowds of men of letters on the town in

London, just not starving and no more. It
                             a                                            very-

                                ;

                                             is
                                                      is
                                                             a
bad look-out at best. Unless man can take the top

of the tree he wasting his time and health in climbing.is

All the fruit grows at the top there  nothing but

spines on the trunk and lower branches. Could not

     i  Rossmassler's Diagnosis Condtyliorum terrestrium etfiuviatilium.
1843.  EDWARD FORBES.                       333

       , with his mercantile knowledge, get a situation in

some good firm here, and then his leisure hours might

help, when given to his pen ; otherwise, at his age,

Ihe is about to run a sad risk. If hear of anything
Ithat will suit or help, will write you, and, at any rate,

will look sharply out, but fear much.       -, he cer

    " I am surprised at what you say about

tainly seemed rather a rough diamond, but at the same

time straightforward and open. May it not have been only

a pen roughness which dictated his note to you ? By

the bye, Taylor has been at me every other day for the

last two months, to let him put my name among the

myriad editors of the Annals. I have not given in

yet, and have objections, but one argument in favour

Iwill fear overturn them, viz., living here is so much
Imore expensive than living in Edinburgh, that must
Isave all can in the way of buying books, and joining

him will get me the Annals for nothing, and a share of

Ithe books sent to them. All should have to do is what
I do now, be a reference for papers sent in."

       Two days afterwards, in a letter to the same friend,

he again refers to this project of inserting his name as

one of the editors, and to Thompson's zoological papers
sent in for publication in the journal. " As to the papers

Iin the Annals" he says, " think they are, if anything, too

full for a monthly journal. They are just the right thing

for chapters in a book, but a journal is only taken up for

consultation, and the consulter requires his results in as

brief and compressed a form as possible. For my part

I(but do not mean to set my opinions up against every
Ibody else's), object to popular papers in a journal, un
334                    MEMOIR OP                CHAP. XL

Iless they be pure generalizations.         like to see all results

Itabulated or summed up in such a way that can see

the whole at a glance, almost without reading, descrip

tions of structure of course excepted.
     " Your review of the ' Star-fishes' makes my modesty

shrink from appearing in the title-page of the Annals till

I Inext volume, but in the meantime hope am exercising

some salutary control, to Taylor's great apparent comfort.
     " Yesterday the Geological Society's dinner came off.
Lots of butter, of which I got a share, and as
Ithe plasterer, it of course fell thick.        was

...all such too well.                       know the value of

                       A short summary of the geological

and zoo-geological results of the .<Egean expedition rather

astonished the audience, who had no very distinct idea

before how much had been done. Warburton is our new

Ipresident. He is rather austere, but just, and rather

want a strict man at present to keep my ribs in order.

    " You talk of the Fine Arts. I came out the other

day as artist, my sketches being exhibited at the ' Gra

phic' with considerable success. You have no idea from

my old attempts what a landscape painter Daniell made

Ime. rather dread local societies for the encouragement

of art, and trust you will exercise no indulgence in your

position as patron at Belfast. An artist is not worth en

couraging professionally unless he exhibits high powers

of both, hand and mind, otherwise he is only another

sacrifice at the shrine of poverty and discontent. Be

Aware !-- Ever most truly yours, Edward Forbes."1

   i The Triangle of the Brotherhood of     times, however, so hurriedly dashed off,
the Friends of Truth, still, and for some   that none but the initiated could detect

years afterwards, when writing to any       its form, lurking in the curving lines
oineromathic correspondent, formed an       wherein he enveloped some of the letters
indispensable part of his signature, some-  of his name.
1843.  EDWARD FORBES.  335

     The little leisure which he could snatch during the
early part of spring, was sedulously devoted to the pre
paration of his lectures, and occasionally to the dashing

   The above sketch was drawn at a Council Meeting of the Geological Society.
Forbes, ns usual, was busy drawing gnomes, nymphs, and caricatures, when a dis
cussion arose on a proposition by Dr. Mantell, that the bones of the Dicynodon, in
the Society's collection, should bo properly cleaned and dressed. Stopping in the
middle of a sketch, Forbes instantly drew on another part of the page the above
representation of the Dicynodon, as his conception of how the creature would look

when "properly cleaned and dressed."
336               MEMOIR OP                                CHAP. XI.

off of a squib for the Literary Gazette, or of a vignette or

page of gossip for bis long-advertised, but never com
pleted " Rambles of a Naturalist." On the 11th of Feb

Iruary he wrote of these employments to Dr. Percy :-- "

have sadly little time for anything else except preparing
Ifor my lectures in summer.
                             mean presently to make

application to you for contributions to our herbarium at
IKing's College.
                  have presented all my collections, both
botanical and zoological, and am anxious to get all I can

for them. A set of duplicates of European grasses, or of

ferns, if you have any to spare, would be very acceptable
Iat present. Send me anything.
                                      have no scruple in

begging, as it is in a public cause.
     " The first page of my ' Rambles ' is in the press,
I Iand the wood-cuts in progress.
                                      wish could etch like

I
                        I
                            I
                                                I is

                                                                                                      is,
you, my ideas would flow better. S    is here, and

think, improved since last saw him. He the same

fellow, now sad, now gay, by turns, but need say

nothing on that point, for have my own alternations

of both merriment and melancholy."

     But the claims of the curatorship were not the only

source of hindrance to the preparation of his lectures,

and the arrangement of the Eastern materials. In the

short space of one month, he suffered from two sharp,

though happily short returns of his Lycian fever and

ague, which incapacitated him for work, and left him

much weakened in body. On March 5th, he thus writes
to Mr. Thompson " am now better of my late return of
I
                                                   :
                     I
                                                        a
                                        II
fever, which pulled me down little, and hope in my

new residence to enjoy better health Since came here

have been living at No. 24, Marylebone Street, Golden
                                    EDWARD FORBES.

ISquare, in very comfortable lodgings, which could

recommend to you in case you want any when you come
here. Want of room for my books, etc., however, made

Ime unsettled, so have changed my plan of living, and

have taken up my quarters with a friend, Dr. Day,1 a
young Cambridge physician, and formerly a fellow-
student with me in Edinburgh, of very great talent, and

a good fellow. He has married a young lady, whom I

knew in the Isle of Man, and has taken a house in

ISouth wick Street, Hyde Park (far end of Oxford Street),

where put up yesterday, agreeing to live with him.
This will both be pleasanter, and more conducive to my
studies. Day's books and mine together will make a

pretty good library for home use. It will also be more

economical, which is an object, as living in London is
a different thing to living in Edinburgh ; and being

a Professor costs more than being a student. From

IDay's, shall have a pleasant walk here across the

parks every morning, which will do me good in fine

weather. . . .

    " How long I shall require your aid, one can't well

             i Now Professor of Anatomy, etc., in the University of St. Andrews.

                                            Y
338  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XI.

say till we begin to work. Suit your own time as to
coming, but do let us get a sight of you before the Asso
ciation meets. May will do well.

      " throws his drawing-room open, with micro
scopes, 'big- wigs,' wise men and fools tastefully inter
spersed, and gives them ices, sweets, and sherry before

they go home.

    " If you ever see the Literary Gazette, Jerdan printed

a squib of mine in the last number."
     Ten days afterwards, in view of the meeting of the

British Association at Cork, he writes again to the same

constant correspondent :--

                                         " Geological Society, London, March 14, 1843.is,

    " Dear Thompson, --In order that I may not mislay

your note, or forget your queries before answering them,

I sit down, the moment after reading your note, to write

in reply.

     " My arrangements about the Association and Dublin
are not yet made, nor can they be for some time. In

London I must be till the end of July, on account of
I Imy lectures, and suspect must go to Cork straight

in order to gain time for the preparation of my Report.

ITo Dublin shall certainly go, either before or after, and

thence to the Isle of Man, to see my relations. But as
yet, this cannot be fixed for certain. Nothing is certain

Iwith me except that must lecture here in summer,
Ithough when or how am to get ready my lectures

seems the more puzzling the nearer the time comes, as
the work at the Geological increases every day, and

other things I must do to make ends meet. The fact
                EDWARD FORBES.  339

I have a great deal too much on hand without the

power of reducing it. When I am in Dublin, I shall

certainly make it my object to examine critically the
Icollections of shells there.
                               want your assistance in my

jEgcan collections, not so much for eye-work as for

critical work, in regard to species, whether described, and
Iwhere, etc.
                am so stuck down in my geological room
that I cannot get five minutes a week for consulting

books elsewhere, or looking over collections, except at

night when all the public ones arc closed.

    " I have catalogues of the British marine molluscs
I Iup to the time left England, but where they arc
Iknow not, and have no time to look for them at
present. If I had spare time, I would make one

according to my idea of what it should be, and print it

somewhere.      injustice in a former letter, in revil

     " You did

ing him for spending his life in jokes. He wastes his
talents in a different way -- doing all the business (no

little work) for the Zoological Society. He should leave

that for ordinary men. Henry Goodsir has just written

me saying he has succeeded in watching the develop
ment of Balanus, from egg upwards, more completely
than has yet been done, and that, at a 'particular stage,

its larva is identical with that of ordinary cinMaccans.

This complete observation must settle all question as to

the positions of the Cirrhipedcs."
     To his much-loved friend, George "Wilson, he occa

sionally found time to write a hurried letter, generally

craving news from Edinburgh, and especially about the
Brethren, rather than giving information regarding his
340  MEMOIR OF  chap. XL-

own doings. At this time Dr. Samuel Brown was at
war with the chemists on the subject of his transmuta

tion experiments, and Forbes, who loved him as a
thoroughly congenial spirit, battled stoutly for him

among scientific circles in London. In his letters to

George Wilson, our naturalist frequently referred, in
most energetic language, to his sympathy with Brown.

      Thus, with a prelude of three interlacing triangles,

as symbolical of the Brotherhood, he writes :--

     "3, SouTinviCK Stueet, Hyue Park, April 6, 1843.

     " My dear Frater,-- I take much blame to my

self for not having written to you for so long a time,

but plead guilty to having put it off from day to day.

The continual hurry in which all my movements are

involved here is singularly unfavourable to epistoliz

Iing, but the great craving have for another letter from

you has obliged me, in spite of all the stones in the

Geological Society, to sit down and scribble. By this

Itime hope your health and spirits are in a better
way than when I saw you in Edinburgh ; ere long,

doubtless, you will be able again to lecture and exercise

a class.

     " Many thanks for your long and most interesting
letter on the subject of Sam Brown's discoveries, -- all

success attend them ! The sooner he brings them out
I Ithe better.
     am the only believer here, but of course

have not whispered the process you communicated to

Iany one. Day and talk over it by ourselves. Tom

      is here, much improved by his travels. I had a

note from Lowe proposing him as a frater ; that must be
1843.              EDWARD FOBBES.        341

left to you brethren in Edinburgh. Many Edinburgh

men are excellent fellows out of Edinburgh, but sad

masses of prejudice when at home. It must be seen

how Tom will be when once more under his paternal
roof. Yesterday I met Giglioli in the street. We took
Ia walk together, and had a long chat.
                                         hope to see

Jmore of him. He looks well as ever.
      " ohu Goodsir won't write. Do stir him up to put

pen on paper. He is as bad a correspondent as myself.

What has been done about Dobbie's1 business ? and give
Ime all other news about the brethren.
                                         am over head

and ears in work, as my lectures come on in a month,

and I am rather behind in preparation, but must make

the best of it."

   I" introduce                                                             " Xov. 15, 1843.

versy] everywhere  the subject [of Dr. Brown's contro
                   by the following process :-- Men who

are chemically inclined talk to me of the relations of

chemistry and natural history; I reply by asking them

for chemical light on the following question :--
     " How do you account for certain so-called simple

bodies being found only in the oldest formations, and

others in only the newest or newer ? That which is

present in a stratum must be either there by an act of

creation, or be derived from some previously existing

body ; but if that which is present be not identical with

any previously existing body, or a combination of any

two or more previously existing bodies, and yet be not

admitted as a new creation, it must be a transmutation.

   · An Edinburgh engraver of great ta-  head-piece prelixcd to the printed (or
ient, who had engraved the symbolical    mulas of the Brotherhood.
342                   MEMOIR OF              CHAP. XI.

[Now, it seems to me that the idea of transmutation of
certain original inorganic forms, or even of a unity into
multiplicity, is a simpler idea than that of repeated acts
of creation of inorganic bodies.

    I" Now admit the repeated creations of organized

beings, but in all such, the material of these organisms
was derivative ; the ' creations ' bearing reference to the

appearance on earth of an animus limiting the matter,
by which its appearance was made manifest, differently
from any limitation of matter which had resulted pre

viously from the presence of a prior animus.
      " Moreover, the organic and inorganic world, being

in a relation of polarity with each other, no argument
can be drawn from the former as to the probability of
successive creative acts in the latter, but rather the con

trary.]

   I" All that have marked in red ink 1 is perhaps too

obscurely transcendental to weigh with every one, with

out such an exposition of the system on which it de

pends, as cannot be given in a hurried scrawl such as

this.

       " But tell me what you think of the previous ques
Ition. When put it here, men become puzzled, and
Day and I both answer it in Brown's favour.
       I" At present
                      shall arrest my letter ; perpetual

hurry and work breaks up my corresponding time sadly.

I long for such tranquil, merry, philosophical days and

nights as we used to spend in Lothian Street.
     " How are all the Brethren ? Adieu !
                                                           " E. Forbes."

        The paragraphs within brackets.
1843.  EDWARD FORBES.                                                343

     This spring he joined the Linnaean Society,1 and. read
before it a paper on the Ophiuridre of the iEgean Sea,

which was published the following autumn in the Trans

actions of the Society.2

    It was only by dint of the most strenuous labour,

that on the 8 th of May he found himself ready to begin

his botanical lectures. The inaugural discourse avas

devoted to botany considered as a science and as a
branch of medical education, -- a thoughtful, suggestive

essay, written in a singularly quiet style, yet with traces

of that fanciful conception and that deep love of analogy,

so eminently characteristic of the mind of Edward
Forbes. In the earlier paragraphs he divides the natural

history sciences into three --zoology, botany, and minera

logy--and adds that geology formed the exposition of

the mutual connexion of the three. To quote his own
expressive words, geology " may be looked upon as the

history of the earth's changes during its preparation for
the reception of organized beings, a history which has

all the character of a great epic, having for its hero,
Man or, as he subsequently altered the last clause, " a

great epic, the proemium of Man." Alluding to the

analogies between the animal and vegetable kingdoms,
he remarks that " both kingdoms seem pervaded by a

double representation of each other ; two great spheres,
as it were, repeated within themselves ; a representation

which will, in all probability, be found as true in the

major as in the minor groups of organized beings."
This analogy was one on which he loved to dwell. In

   i On 7th February 1843.               the whole published in the  nineteenth
   1 Part of the paper was read on 21st  volume of the Transactions  of the t!o-
March, and the rest on 6th June, and
                                         ciety, p. 143.
344  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XI.

the preparation of his lectures he kept it steadily in
view, and it suggested those relations between plants
and animals which formed the subject of the memoir on
the Morphology of the Sertularian Zoophyte, read at
the meeting of the British Association (1844), a paper
which he regarded as one of his most important con
tributions to science.

      There was a fresh, healthy tone about this introduc
tory lecture which argued well for the lectures to follow.
Though addressing himself chiefly to medical students,
he discarded at once the doctrine that the natural

sciences had served their turn when they had yielded to
the student a certain number of names and facts, the
recollection of which might be serviceable in after life.
He seemed to have come fresh from Nature to demand

for her study a high and honourable place among the
recognised courses of mental training. He sought to
impress upon his students that he aimed not so much to
give them facts as the power of observing and dis

criminating them. "A student of any science," he

observed, " well trained in the modes of investigation
which that science teaches, is a much more valuable

member of society than a youthful encyclopaedia or a
living book of facts." He wished to make them fellow-
workers, and to infuse into their spirits somewhat of the
zeal and enthusiasm which burnt so ardently in his own.
" Much, very much," he assured them, " yet remains to
be done ; and there is no fresher field for original
research and the development of a grand philosophy
than that of natural history."

     No wonder, then, that his class became popular. ln
1843.  EDWARD FORBES.                     345

the number of matriculated students it stood only second
among the botanical classes in London, but it was also
frequented by many amateurs, drawn by his fascinating
and novel treatment of the study of plants. Nor was
the lecture-room the sole source of attraction. He re

newed his favourite custom of taking the students to the
country, and training them to habits of observation in
the field. " Those who attended his class," wrote a friend
and fellow-student of his own, " will ev«r remember the

charm he threw around the study of vegetable structure,

and the delightful hours they spent in his company dur

ing the periodical excursions, which he made a point of

taking with his pupils, in the neighbourhood of London.

Nor were these excursions attended by pupils alone.

Many are the distinguished men of science in London

who sought this opportunity of availing themselves of

his great practical knowledge of cvery department of

natural history."1 Writing in the autumn of this year to

his friend, Dr. Balfour, the future Professor of Botany at
Edinburgh, he thus describes his summer lectures :--

    " My class last summer went off very well. I had

a most excellent set of men, who behaved admirably,
Iand never flagged in attendance.
                                   had three or four

excursions of much interest, managed in our old fashion,

alarming the neighbouring villages by an invasion of

twenty or so vasculiferi. Shaw acted as my esquire and
jester on all these occasions, and Lankester, with some

other amateurs, also occasionally joined my ranks. My

pupils were forty-eight in number, next to Lindley's, the

best botanical class in London. If the forty- eight all

       i Alhtnemm for November 25, 1851.
346                     MEMOIR OF                                             CHAT. XI.

paid the fees into my pocket more Scotico, it would be

very satisfactory ; but the College absorbs more than a

fourth of so that my receipts were much under the
     I;
hundred and as in one's first course there are manya I ; it,
expenses, get but little out of the total. As the Col

lege has diagram painter, there was saving on that
                                    a

                                           I
score for being obliged to be at the Geological all day

long, have no time to paint diagrams. The most pro

voking want having no botanic garden, and have nois

spare days to run after and make Mends with gardeners,
so that have great difficulty in procuring fresh illustra
tions. Hooker offered me them from Kew, but on con
        is I
dition that should go and select for myself personally,it I

which impossible as am situated. We have capital
                        II          it
herbarium at the College, but when
                                         is

                                             It

                                                       a
                                         to be put into

the state should be really cannot tell.                                       vexes me

much thus to find myself unable to give sufficient time

to any one thing.                            aa                               capital set
     " The medical professors at King's are

of men, enthusiastic and talented.  II  have fine room

for museum, and should desire nothing better than
     a

time and fortune to do as like there.        am now only
                            I           I

beginning to touch my eastern plants. · When they are

sorted they shall be distributed, but cannot promise as

to the time. My pupils in the Beacon' are collectinga·

with great success, and sent me few days ago beauti
                                                                              a

ful little parcel from Mount Ida, in Crete, including some

things which may be new.
     " commend your intention of writing text-book.
     I

                          is
                             a
                                                                          aa
What we want            clear statement of the present state

of vegetable physiology and anatomy, and concise and
1843.  EDWARD FORBES.            347

contrasting view of the orders in a portable class volume.

I speak now from having felt the want of such."

   In his account of the botanical session to Captain

IGraves, he says, " got over my botanical lectures a

fortnight ago. It was terribly hard work, as the Geolo
gical keeps me all day at it. I am rather fagged, and
don't half like having so much to do ; it has threatened

to knock me up several times. Both offices arc hard
Iwork, no play, and little pay.
                                 had a good botanical

class, forty-eight pupils, who were most attentive, and
gave me three cheers at the end of the course --rather
Isubversive of discipline.
                            gained great popularity by

taking them out in three long walks into the country,

and ending the days by dining together, with lots of

punch (in moderation) and good songs. It was a new

Isystem in London, but think will do. So much of the

fees go to the College, that £64 was all my share, most
of which went in necessary expenses."

     When we consider the large amount of his time con
sumed by the Curatorship of the Geological Society, and
also that the Report of his researches in the East formed

part of his evening work, we cannot fail to be struck
with the marked success of the first course of lectures.

Their subject, as he felt when the Chair was first sug
gested to him, hardly lay within the sphere of his later
studies, and he accepted the appointment with the full

knowledge that he would have to work very hard to give
an average course of lectures. And yet when the time

came he had no leisure for lengthened and careful pre

paration, indeed hardly time for preparation of any kind,

seeing that only two months before the summer session
348                     MEMOIR OF                              CHAP. XI.

of King's College began, he confessed that he had not
been able " to touch his lectures." But besides his scien
tific work, in order " to make the ends meet," as he

         it,
                          it
                                                            a
phrased  he found needful to throw off short literary

contributions to the periodicals, especially the Literary

Gazette. These necessarily occupied considerable part

of his leisure, and sadly encroached on the hours that

should have been spent at the lectures, the Mgcnn Re

port, or other original researches.
     This pressure of work told with marked effect on his

spirits. His letters to Thompson, that were wont to be

so vivacious, now contain frequent lamentations over his
over-work, and the utter hopelessness of extricating him

self from it. Thus, on July 20, when the lectures were
nearly over, he writes --

    "Dear Thompson, -- On thinking over my letters
         it

           aI
                  I

                                          :

                                              ,

                                                                                  is
lately to you, fear have been saying ill-natured things.
You must pardon them, as my perpetual slavery here
fast spoiling naturally bad temper, and making me like
Tittlebat Titmouse in the novel. When your note came

last night found me in the dumps, and terribly gloomy.

Not ten minutes before    one of the most reasonable

of geologists, brought me back two most difficult papers,

one very long, to abstract, which, two months ago, he
had volunteered to do (they were his own), now saying

that he thought should do them much better than he
         I

                       it

                              is

                                  I
                                                                                     !

                                                   I
could, and that they were not very difficult thus giving
me a full week's work additional. But am the servant

and they the masters, so  no use grumbling, though

it's terribly down-heartening.                                                          shall
      " On Saturday my lectures conclude, when
1843.           EDWARD FORBES.                       349

I Iwork as hard as can to get the Report over.  do hope
Ifto get it done, but have my fears.  done, I go to Cork."
Again, six days afterwards : "Dear Thompson, -- I am writ
ing hard at my Report. I have already made the rough
reduction of all the dredging papers. On principle I

must make it as near publishing mark as possible, before

Ibringing it up, as object, and so do most of the mem

bers, to any papers being read at the Association in a

state in which they would not be admitted by a scientific
Isociety. Therefore must not, if possible, read rough
Inotes.
          may retain the appendix of new diagnoses till
Iafterwards.
              have made up my mind to go to Cork.
ILankester and
                go together ; Babington will meet us

there. You must beat up among your countrymen for

papers in our section, as I fear much the naturalists

will not muster very numerously." A few days later he
Ireports, " The vacation here is no vacation to me.
                                                     have

as much to do as ever, and am puzzled how to get ready

Imy Report in time. Besides, am threatened at present
with an inflammation of the eyes. If I am laid up, and
Ican't bring my Report to Cork, won't go, but don't anti

cipate such at present, fully intending to be there. It

would not be worth my while to go there without my

Report."

       He had this year all his old anxiety to see a full

assembly of philosophers at the British Association which

was to meet at Cork. To naturalists, geologists, chemists,

and physicists he writes or sends, urging an unhesitating
visit to the Green Isle, even in spite of Dan O'Connell

and Repeal. Many naturalists, however, had declined to
go. "We must, therefore," he said, " make up for want of
350          MEMOIR OF                        CHAP. XI.

Inumbers in the natural history Section by energy.

think the Cork people ought to give me a dinner for act
I Iing as amateur whipper-in.
                           think have persuaded

Playfair to change his mind, and go for the sake of

chemistry."

     After the meeting of the Association, and a brief

visit to Killarney, he returned to England, and spent a

few days with his sister, Mrs. Atwood, in Staffordshire.

IWhile there he wrote to Thompson, " In a week return

to London, having a sad arrear of work on hand, in the

way of Geological Proceedings, which must, if possible, be
out before the meetings in November. I am hard at

work at them here, having brought the papers with me.

I ISince saw you have had a momentary return of my

fever, known by its peculiar symptoms. It was, how
Iever, very slight, and
                         hope, as it gets slighter and

slighter every attack, it will soon disappear, unless

fagging in London aggravates the next return of it.
     " The hurry and bustle at Cork prevented my

Idoing many things intended. On the whole our Sec

tion did very well, and it was in some sort a triumph

to the provincial naturalists, as, except Owen, all the

London chiefs were absent. It is to be regretted that

Ogilby and Hyndman were not there to make up the list

of Irish naturalists. The exacting spirit of the geologists

at the beginning put me in bad humour for the meeting,

Iand have not yet recovered my natural spirits ; if any

of them take a grudge at my insubordination, they have

it in their power to persecute unmercifully.
     I" am glad to see that Ross and his expedition have
Ireturned safe and sound.
                           wish  (it     not right, however,
                                     is
         EDWARD FORBES.                                           351

to do so) they had been two or three months later, as it
is very probable the demand they will make on the Ad

miralty for publication grants will prevent Government

lending its ear to the recommendation for the publication
of the iEgean work."

   While still at his sister's, a friend had written to urge

his acceptance of the Curatorship of the Zoological So

ciety,   and on arriving in London    (: 2"8AthboSuetpttheemZbeoro)l,oghie
thus    stated his views to Thompson

Ical Curatorship, six days ago wrote to Ogilby giving
Imy reasons for not entering upon it.
                                                   have thought

        I

               a it,

               Ia

                        it

                                                ;

                                     it

                                     I
                                          I
well over and seems to me to be leaping from the

frying-pan into the fire for as sure as did so, not only

would have nest of geologists, but also one of zoolo

gists about my ears. Were the situation such one as
                                                   a

                                                        iIf
would be final object, would be all well; but

thought that was destined to be cither zoological or

geological curator all my life,       should vanish im

mediately and stand the consequences. There                       more
                                                                  is
mercy among immortals than mortals.
      " Another and most cogent reason                                it

                                                                            is
                                        is         this, that

impossible to do the duties of the King's College Chair
in connexion with any office requiring attendance every

day, and all day, except the Geological, which so near
                         it

                                 II

                                                      it
                                                              is
that can run across and do things by snatches. Now,
(if it

   is I
         through the professorship look to better things

    there be such), and won't do to give up till the
last moment. In the meantime, am infinitely obliged
to Ogilby, and shall not forget his kindness. Au reste,

I  must just slave on."

   Again, on 12th October, he writes to the same corre
352              MEMOIR OF                                  CHAP. XI.

Ispondent, " That about the zoological fully treated of
Iwhen wrote ; the more I think of
                 it                            the more see
                      is                                    iIf I

                        I                                             a

                                          it,
that the necessity of my being near the College,            am

to hold any stewed-up office at all, forces me to remain

where am. The College better this year than ever,; is I
and the only medical school in London which has in
creased but grow as will am no better, for the
botanical chair will never enable its holder to quit offices

elsewhere.                               certainly should like to be

     " As to the Athenaeum,
                 if

                        I
member, but doubt my income warrants such extrava

gance. Poor working men have no business in clubs,

and such are not likely to be elect of the committee, and

would not ask the favour of any big-wig to propose
I
me."
      It

             is
              pleasing to mark how deep an interest, even in
the midst of the engrossments of his London life, he
continued to take in the wellbeing of his family, and
how fully alive he showed himself to the weight of re
sponsibility which rested on his shoulders. Thus, on the

25th October, he writes to George Wilson --
    " Dear Wilson, --The pressure of the times, as the

phrase goes, has prevented my putting my intentions of
writing to you in practice for long time. You must
pardon my neglect, as you wrote last.

      " Yesterday had note from Goodsir, in which he

delivers message from you regarding little brother
of mine whom formerly spoke of making into chemist.
i

            a

             II
                                      a
                                                             a
                                                                      a
                                                                                                               :
                                                                                  a

                                                                                                                                                   1
     Mr. David Forbes, already referred  result of observations in many different
to in this Memoir, and widely known for  parts of the world,
his researches in chemical geology, the
1843.              KDWARD FORBES.                                                  353

1 wish much your advice on the subject, as it is time I

should be thinking of it. The lad is fourteen, very

talented, but very versatile, of an enthusiastic disposition

as regards science, but given, like myself, to meddle

with too many subjects. Chemistry                                     is,    however, his
                                                                           is
hobby, and the knowledge he has picked up surprising,

considering that he managed to make himself acquainted

withis       in the Isle of Man. Of course, much of this

       it

            a
being irregular, would have to be unlearned. At present

he at school in Essex for the winter, working up,
                                   it
                                                                      ;
                                                                '

                                                             a it 1
hope, his mathematics, as lectured him strongly on the
                   a
importance of that branch of science to chemistry for-
                       I
bye,'  I  know mighty little about myself. Now,

seems to me that for lad of this kind there might be

good opening as an analytical and advising chemist,

especially in some of the English mining and pottery

counties, or a manufacturing firm would receive himif
to put him in fair train there. Circumstances require

that whatever be done with him, be done as econo
                                 it

mically as possible, my revenues, professorial and cura

torial, being as yet small, and his further education,

in all probability, being likely to fall on my shoul
ders. To give him good scientific grounding first,

    the great thing, and Edinburgh doubtless the best
is

      II
                    ;

                     if

                                       a
                                                                   a

                                                               is
place.         have seen something lately of the men who

make money as analytical chemists in the English

provinces they are all empirics. Now, a clever young

fellow well grounded and trained in scientific chemistry

would, think,      steady, make                                     good thing ofit it  in

the end.                                                                              will
      " Please give your opinion on these plans, as

                          /,
354  MEMOIR OF                                   CHAP. XI.

greatly guide me in my arrangements for my brother's

benefit.                         I heard some time ago that
      " Now, to. other matters.

your health was not so promising ; 1 now hear you are

...looking up again, and promise to get over your ailments.
Be careful, and doubtless you will master them.            Do

tell me all about Brown, as I am most anxious to know,

and John Goodsir's letters only whet one's appetite.

    If" you drop into the reading-room, there is a little

squib of mine in this day's Literary Gazette, entitled

' Blarney Revisited,' which may amuse you. Adieu !
dear Wilson. --Your true friend and frater,

                                              " Edward Forbes."

      Further on in the winter, he was thrown into despair

by the illness of another member of the family. " I have

been in such a state of anxiety," he writes to Mr. Thomp
son, " in consequence of the dangerous illness of my only

surviving sister, who was, during a week, hourly ex

Ipected to die, but who, am happy to say, has had a

sudden and miraculous convalescence, at least for a time,

that I have been unable to touch either your work or

mine, and, until Thursday, did all my duties mechani
Ically. Now, however,
                       hope in a day or two to have

gone over the shells you left with me, and tell the results."

     During the month of December 1843, and the early

part of the following month, Forbes had to wage a con

stant and often unequal battle with debility and illness,
arising, as he believed, from his " extremely sedentary and

too worrying life." He suffered from frequent returns of

fever, which not (inly reduced his physical strength, but
EDWARD FORBES.  355

 by throwing his work into arrcar, harassed and annoyed
 him. Thus, on January 8, 1844, he wrote :--

    " Dear Wilson,-- I am still an invalid, and this is my
third day out of bed. I fancy, during my visit to Ireland,

II caught the potato- disease, for am sorely afflicted in the

kidneys. It knocks me up for good work, and as I am in
bad humour with the imperfection and delay of all I do,
or rather attempt, I am not in the best condition for
getting well speedily. Anent John Goodsir, I am very

anxious, both for him and for the University, to which,

Ihaving been an undutiful son, bear great affection.

Here, in London, any other appointment to the anatomy
chair than that of Goodsir will be looked on with won
der, for of the men officially connected with the Univer
sity, James D. Forbes and he are regarded as the brightest
stars, and the farthest in advance of their time. The

brilliancy and beauty and philosophical spirit of Goodsir's
essays are unequalled in these times, and all men able to
judge here and abroad look upon him as a redeeming
light in Edinburgh.

     " To poetry again. Let me recommend to your per

usal Duffy's Irish Ballads. It is full of beautiful poems,

especially those of poor Davis, and of my friend Fergu

son."

     In the Christmas week he succeeded in paying a visit

of two days to Cambridge, and inspected the Colleges

with Mr. Ansted and Mr. Babington. " I was greatly

pleased with my visit," he says, "except in one thing, --

to find that natural history is discouraged as much as

possible, and regarded as idle trifling by the thousand
and one mathematicians of that venerated University."
356         MEMOIR OF                   CHAP. XI.

     At this time, and during the ten years that followed,

his friends were constantly on the watch to apprise hiin

of any natural history chair vacant, or likely to become

so, which might take him out of his uncongenial turmoil

and excitement. It is amusing to see from his letters

how various were the subjects, as well as the emoluments,

of these chairs, and often how small the likelihood that,

even if gained, they would make his life a quieter or

more useful one. But any appointment that would re

move him from London seemed to his many true hearted

correspondents in the country, the very thing that Forbes

needed. And so, whenever the rumour rose that such or

such a chair would soon require to be filled anew, the

tidings sped at once by half a do^zen channels to Forbes's
sanctum in Somerset House.

     A friend had written to urge his application for one

of the Irish chairs. Of this project he remarked to Mr.

Thompson (5th January), " I fear to venture on any

steps, and certainly would not under any circumstances,

so long as  is even nominally in the field. At any
rate, I could not conscientiously face a botanical chair,
Idoing so little -- indeed, nothing as  am -- in botany.

Moreover, any such contest would, in all probability, do

away with any chance of getting Jameson's chair, which,

small chance as I fear there is of getting, is now my for

lorn hope, and only chance of escape from the worrying

Icomplication of offices in which now am. I doubt also

whether it would be worth while for me to go to Dublin

without a prospect of a better salary (for fees are very
precarious and changeable), and also of having more

time at disposal than the curatorship would admit.
1M4. EDWARD FORBES. 357

" Under any circumstances, I had probably best hold
Ion where I am.
                 am like a sailor whose ship has gone

down, and who is floating about the sea with a frail hold

on a rough plank, but dares not give it up, lest he go to

the bottom.

" A year next month and I shall be thirty ; my ap
prenticeship, in the German sense, will then be up. If
Ithings do not look better,
                              have serious thoughts of

abandoning science then for other views ; but time

enough to talk of that when the time comes."

The reference to Edinburgh in this note is repeated
                              "I spoke of Edinburgh
again a few days afterwards.

merely because it is the only resource ; but suppose it be

I Icame vacant, know no,t how could get hold of it. It

is in the gift of the Crown. Goodsir and others are

anxious I should look out for and will give me earliest
                      ;

                         it,

                           I
information on the subject but altogether despair of

it. There will probably be many candidates very likely
                                    ;;
Jardine, whose political interest will weigh also Flem

ing, for whom there will be strong push made by thea
Free Church party. Perhaps the chair will be split up,
and, in that case, neither of the sections will be worth

taking. My time here  less than ever, as work at the
                    I is

                                  I
                                        I

                                                                        '

                                                 I
                                                                                                            '
Geological continually accumulating. The Rambles
are at stand (though don't like to tell Van Voorst
Ia

       is
so), for am fitter for sleeping than writing when get
up to Southwick Street. My plants are rotting, and

half my collections going to ruin.  wish had stuck

to the brush, and never meddled with natural history,

iswhich only fit for independent amateurs."

   In reference to another chair, he wrote again --
                                              :
358                     MEMOIR OF                                                                        CHAP. XI.

   " I could not conscientiously take the Doctor's professor

Iship, even if it were offered me ; am not sufficient of a

' physician' (in the French sense) to be a geological pro

fessor. If it was a chair of Paleontology or Zoo-Geology

or Natural History in general, it would suit. Besides,
Iin these matters,
                       am a good deal tied up by college

etiquette. It was hinted to me by a very good autho

rity, that if I applied for a certain three years' zoological
lectureship, I would in all probability get it. But my
hands are tied. I must not take up any branch identical

with that of a college chair. I don't complain of for
                                   I It
the rule a good one, and must be adhered to for the
     :a                                    is
peace of Universities.is
                                          aI a
     "However, at this moment, there                                                                     glimmer of
                                                              it,
hope of another kind, the nature of which am not at

liberty yet to divulge, as depends on contingency,
                          it
which few weeks will decide. it       may take me out

of the very unpleasant position       am in here, and

put me in one which will at least lead to good things.

Don't mention or hint       yet, but answer the following
                          curatorship were suddenly to
query --
    " If the geological

become vacant, would      think of in preference to
                                   it

his present office ?"

     He refers (under date February 24) in equally

mysterious language to this projected scheme for re
moving him from Somerset House. " Work here in
Ifcreases every day.
                          had not the prospect of getting
     it
                 It

                           is

                    II

                                      is
                                                 in

                                                                                                      1
nut of ere long (as hinted my last) should give

way under it.           true that much of the work, such

as reporting on fossils,         original, and adds to one's
1841.                         EDWARD FORBES.  359

reputation, but it is impossible to do this to order, and

do the routine work too.

    " However, I hope it will soon be over, and am, con

sequently, in better spirits and health ; the one a necessary
Iconsequence of the other.
                                         am not yet at liberty to

divulge the nature of my plans, but my friends are

determined to get it done, and the very few Gcol. Soc.

men who know what is in progress, viz., Fitton and

Stokes (there may be others, but they have not hinted),

arc anxious for as they now sec and say that this
;                                             is
                                                                  ; is
 I

                         it,
not the place for me. The mover also an F.o.S.

his name and the whole history you shall know by and

by hope very soon."

       The project which he so desired should be kept

secret (and which he himself did keep so secret, that
he boasts to Captain Graves that " even old1 Thomp

son knows nothing about it,") was none other than

his transference from the Geological Society to thela

Geological Survey. It appeared to Sir Henry de

Bechc, the director of the Survey, that the labours of his

officers would be materially aided by the appointment

of palaeontologist as member of his staff. At the
a
                                   C. aRamsay, one of his surveyors,
suggestion of Mr. A.

he had determined that the post should be offered to

Forbes, and was in treaty with the Government for this

purpose. The duties of the Palaeontologist were to

name and arrange the fossils of the museum, to deter

mine the fossil-characters of formations by personal

inspection in the field, and to publish from time to time

     " Old" was               favourite epithet of Captain Graves, applied by him to his most

intimate friends.
i
                           a
360  MEMOIR OF                            CHAP. XI.

the palaeontological results obtained by the operations of
the survey. For such engagements no man presented
higher qualifications than the curator of the Geological
Society. The few friends in that Society who were
admitted into the secret, though reluctant to lose his
services in a post to fill which they looked in vain for

a competent successor, yet stood staunchly by him, and
everything bade fair for a speedy settlement.

     With the prospect of soon entering a less exacting
sphere of labour, the work at the Geological Society,
though not less abundant, became less irksome. On the
2d of February he writes :-- " Dear Thompson, -- For

Ithe last ten days have been at work all day, and,

frequently, through three-fourths of the night, getting on
with the report, which our president commanded, on the
British Lower Greensand,1 and on the Indian Cretaceous

Fossils,2 which reports have taken up as much time as

could be given to them since the summer ; but which,

nevertheless, were not ready when called for. The
description in full, measuring and comparison, of about
180 new species (of fossils too), and the rectification of
the synonyms of as many old ones, was no easy matter,
and a more laborious task than the geologists fancy.

However, by over-work, I contrived to have the results
ready for Wednesday night, when I laid the reports on
the table, and read a short statement of the conclusions

I had come to, too brief and too deep to be understood
by most who were there ; but, as it will be printed, I

  · " On the Lower Greensand Fossils         * " Roporton the Collection of Fossils
                                          from Southern India, presented by C.
iii the possession of the Geological So-  J. Kaye, Ksq. and the l!cv. W. II.
ciety." - Jour. Geol. St>c. I. 78, 237,
                                          ligcrtou."-- Jour. Ueol. .S'«f. I. 7U.
315.
1S44.              EDWARD lFORBES.             361

don't care. All those who can understand it will then

see its value.

   " In the meantime, shoals of letters, requests, queries,

etc., lie unanswered ; some of them requesting im
Imediate replies.
                   am quite as bad as Goodsir, so feel
Iyour abuse of him as affecting myself.
                                         answer your
Iletters, because short answers will do ; but have many

lying by me from other friends nearly a year old, which

I can't find energy enough to sit down to. You * gentle

men who sit at home at ease,' must not be too hard on

us poor professionals, to whom a spare moment is like
the intermission of an ague, too valuable to be spent in

doing anything.                                Among

    I" am now overhauling a pile of letters.
which I expect to re-discover some of yours."

       Notwithstanding these declarations, his correspond

ence at this time would have been regarded by most men

as sufficiently voluminous. Every alternate day (some
times every day) brought a note from Thompson, usually

on natural history subjects, which demanded some exa
mination of books and specimens, or no small measure of
thoughtful consideration. Yet Forbes found time to

keep up the correspondence without much irregularity,

his replies being not merely notes, but often long letters.

The interest, too, which he took in the transmutation war

of Dr. Samuel Brown, led him into frequent correspond
ence with George Wilson. He fought his friend's battle
in London, and at this time wrote almost cvery week to

Edinburgh, to learn the state of the controversy and the
positions of the chemists. Nor was this all ; he had

another circle of correspondents on the Mediterranean.
362  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XI.

To Captain Graves he sent nearly every month a long
palimpsest of home news, with good wishes to each and
all of his old comrades in the east. Lieutenant Spratt,
Mr. Hoskyn, and others, also received occasional letters
from him. When to these are added the countless little
notes and memoranda of a business kind which, in spite
of his repugnance, he found himself forced to write, we
shall find cause not to blame his tardiness as a corre

spondent, but to wonder how he could possibly contrive

to succeed as he did.

     In March, he paid a short visit to the Isle of Wight,
along with Captain Ibbetson, to examine the development
of the Lower Greensand strata, and obtain information
to guide him in the preparation of his Reports on the
Fossils. The results of this visit were embodied in a

short paper read before the Geological Society (May
1st),1 and they also afforded material for a paper (with
a large model) read before the British Association in the
autumn of this year.

     Besides the reports and catalogues of the fossils of
the Geological Society, he this spring prepared a lecture
on " The light thrown on Geology by submarine re
searches," for one of the evening meetings of the Royal
Institution. To the preparation of this lecture he gave
much time and thought, seeing that it was the most im
portant opportunity that had occurred for the promulga
tion of the general views to which the iEgean researches
had led him, and for the elucidation of those philosophical
doctrines of the interconnexion of geology with the biolo
gical sciences which, ever with him a favourite theme,

                                        ' Jour. C/eol. Soc. i. 100.
1SJ4. EDWARD FORBES.                         363

had for the last year or two been gradually occupying

more and more of his time, and taking in consequence a

more definite and .appreciable form.

    It was delivered on the evening of the 23d of Feb

ruary, and began by a reference to the early labours of

Douati and Soldani (who dredged the Adriatic about the
middle of last century), and then to his own dredging

explorations in the Irish Sea and the iEgean. It con

sisted of a number of propositions ; as, 1st, That marine

animals and plants are grouped according to species at

particular depths in the sea, and that thus, as we descend

from the shore to the abysmal deeps, we meet with dif
ferent zones characterized by different forms of life,

exactly as in ascending a snow-capped mountain we find

the flora and fauna gradually change as we recede from

the plains. He next showed that the number of species

diminishes according to depth, there being, according to

his experience, no plants below 100 fathoms, and the

probable zero of life about 300 fathoms.1 Sedimentary

deposits formed in greater depths would not contain

organic remains save what might be drifted into deep

water, and he, therefore, cautioned geologists against

inferring that because a scries of unaltered sedimentary

rocks contained no fossils they must needs have been

formed prior to the creation of life. 3d, That as British

species of mollusca occur in all zones of depth in the

Mediterranean, but are most numerous in the lower

zones, there must be a representation of climates or

parallels of latitude in depth, just as there is a corrc-

    i Subsequent researches by other until-  Tor laying the Atlantic cable, living /V>m-
ralists necessitate a modification of thcsc
                                             mini/era were found at 2000 fathoms,
figures. Thus in the recent soundings        nnd living star-fishcs at 1260 fathoms.
364             MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XI.

sponding representation in height in the animal and
vegetable productions of a mountainous country. 4th,
That all sea-bottoms are not equally favourable to life,

sandy parts being usually the desert ones. Hence among
rocks sandstones are usually sparingly fossiliferous. When
a new variety of sea- bottom supervenes on the older one,
a new tribe of organisms occupies its site, and thus were
explained certain organic changes which often accom
pany lithological ones in the stratified portion of the

earth's crust.

     He next showed that such animals as are common to

many zones of depth are those which have the widest
horizontal range in space, being necessarily most inde
pendent of destroying influences, as elevations or depres
sions of the sea-bed. Such changes of level, even to a
small extent, tend to the destruction of the species of a
zone, and unless some provision were made the organisms
would become extinct. This provision was effected, as

Forbes now announced, by the remarkable circumstance

that the mollusca migrate. Even the most sedentary of
them, the limpets, in their egg-state arc floated over the
sea from shore to shore, but, of course, only arrive at
perfection in the zone for which they are adapted. The
lecture concluded by a reference to the harmony of the
views now promulgated with those entertained by many

modern geologists.
     As a lecture it had a marked success. " The night,"

as he wrote next day to Thompson, " was villanously

Ibad, yet, in spite of the weather, had a very splendid

audience.  The geologists behaved well, and mustered
strongly.
           It went off capitally, and I have reason to
184-1.  EDWARD FORBES.  365

believe will do much to raise uiy position here." He

was right in his anticipation. It was now that he ob

tained that hold, which he never afterwards lost, upon
the respect and sympathy of the higher influential class

of London society.
     To the success of this lecture he attributed the grant

of £500 now given by Government to assist the publica

tion of the iEgean researches. It also procured him an

invitation from Sir Robert Peel to a soiree given by
that minister in honour of the King of Saxony, of
which Forbes has left an account in a letter to Mr.

Thompson :--
    " Sir Robert's party," he says (July 1), " was very plea

sant. There was no crowd. It consisted of about half

savcrns and half noblemen, with a due sprinkling of ladies,

among whom were several very beautiful creatures. Lady

Peel showed to great advantage as respects her amiability,

paying every attention to her guests. The Premier
was abstracted and silent, though wearing a sterotyped

Ismile. He was not in the room when arrived, so that
I had no formal introduction to him, but hearing Lord

Northampton address me by name during the evening,
he came up in a very marked manner, shook hands

warmly, and expressed his gratification at what I had

been about, and at the results of my travels. This was
done in such a way that Lord Northampton, not under
standing how Sir Robert should know them, fancied there

was a mistake, and explained to the minister that he
might be confounding me with my Edinburgh name-sake.
This Sir Robert showed he had not done by telling Lord

Northampton what researches he alluded to, which seemed
3G6             MEMOIR OF  CIIAr. XL

to please the p. R. s. much. His Lordship then intro

duced me to the King, who, having put some question

Iabout the Adriatic, was enabled to tell him what he
Ihad done there when was at Trieste, and what new

plants he had found. His Majesty looked uncommonly
pleased to find the details of his doings so well known,

and talked to me about Tommasini and his journey for

some time. He speaks English pretty well. On the

Iwhole you see got off very well.

     " Sir Robert Peel was also marked in his attention to

YarrelL seeking out the little man among the crowd, shak
ing hands with him, and telling him what pleasure his
books had given him. These doings were the more not
able as the minister did not talk to everybody."

     In a postscript to one of his notes to George Wilson,

inquiring after Samuel Brown, he adds, "Thanks for

your compliment about my lecture, which did me service

Ihere, and believe, has made me more known in town

than before. As to giving credit to whom credit is due,

rest assured the best way to do good to onc's-self is to do
justice to others. There is plenty for everybody in

science, and more than can be consumed in our time.

One may get a fair name by suppressing references, but
the Jewish maxim is true, ' He who seeks a name loses

fame.'"

     One result of the lecture was the offering to him pri

vately of the Fullerian professorship ; a triennial appoint
ment, with a salary of £100 a year, for which twelve

lectures per annum were given on some natural history
Isubject.
         "Were  free," he wrote to Thompson, "1

should like nothing better, and have been much urged to
18-14.               EDWARD FORBES.                                 367

          but dare not, for find that have not half
take    it,

           I S.
                 I iIf ? I
                         II
                                   aI

                                             I

                                                        it
time enough to do what am doing, and that my lec

tures at the College are not what should wish them to
be. How then could prepare distinct set of lectures

with diagram, etc.     The only way to do (and that                 if I
would gladly do      dare, but dare not), would be to give

up the G.         This dare not do, for at the end of the

three years should go adrift without any distinct means
of existence, for the College will never yield an income.

This year a I is  nominally better than the last, but really
worse, for        shall have to give back half the proceeds

towards building subscription for the new hospital,

nominally voluntarily, really compulsorily.                         am like
                                      is

                                              iIf ' I
one of the personages in the last scene of the Critic,'

I  move die, though to stand still extremely uncom
        I
                                      dagger at each side.
                               is
                                   a
fortable when there

        " All this would not give me the blues,                     myself

only were concerned. But the fortunes of my family

have gone wrong.         see clearly now that my two little
        it

            is

                      I
brothers at least will have to look to me for everything,

and         the desire to provide for them that makes me

both anxious and low-spirited."

     This return of despondency arose to considerable
extent from some vexatious delays as to the post in the
(

                      it

                                                           a

                                                              it a
Geological Survey, so that for while                                seemed very

doubtful whether his appointment would take place at

all. Nor was        until the beginning of the following

November that the matter came to a final adjustment.
     The lecture at the Royal Institution formed only

one of many engagements which Forbes found leisure
to accomplish during the spring of 1844. He con
308  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XI.

tributed several articles to the Literary Gazette and the

Athenceum ; such, for instance, as one on Samuel Brown's
" Chemical Theories" in the former periodical, iind in the
latter, reviews of Phillip's " Life of Smith," Richardson's
"Geology," Ansted's " Geology," etc. ; also several jeux

d'esprit to the same journals. In the revision of his
botanical lectures for King's College, he continued the
investigation of the analogy between plant and animal

on which he dwelt during the first season, and he now

embodied the results in a paper for the ensuing meeting
of the British Association to be held at York.

    The end of July brought his second course of lectures

at King's College to a close, a result which he chronicles
as " a great relief." But the press of work at the Geo
logical Society still continued. Sir Henry de la Beche
had indeed given him an informal notice of appointment
as palaeontologist of the Survey, and, acting on this,
he began, when the lectures were over, to arrange the
work at the Society's Museum, preparatory to the re
signation of his post there. But the Government situa
tion remained as unsettled as ever, and, until he received

an official notice of appointment to the new office, he

had resolved not to resign the old.

     In this state of uncertainty he was glad to find him -
self in the second week of August among the hills of
Wales. He joined Sir Henry de la Beche, Mr. Ramsay,
and Mr. Warrington Smyth at Builth in Breconshire,

and remained there for some days, taking part in the ex
cursions by which the geology of the district was explored,
and learning the general habits of the Survey, of which

he hoped ere long to become a member. From Wales
IS44. EDWARD FORBES. 369

he went to Liverpool, to visit Mr. Macandrew, and

study that gentleman's collection of mollusca. The two

naturalists spent some time yachting along the shores

of Anglcsca, and dredging whenever an opportunity

presented itself.

These changes of scene and occupation put new

life and energy into a body that had become somewhat

jaded in the struggle with bad health and overwork.
He returned to London to prepare for the Association

meeting, and at once began, as usual, to act the part of
what he called " an amateur whipper-in." To Thompson

he writes (September     13) immediately on his    return
                         Of course you will go to  York.
from the Irish Sea :--"
IThe meeting will, believe, be one of the finest ever

held, and there is a general feeling to support it. Liebig
is in town to go, and many are expected. In the Nat.

Hist. Section we shall have a good muster. Owen,

Schomburgh, H. Goodsir, and Balfour, have told me they
IIare going, and hear of others.
                                  hope Ball will appear,

and will rejoice to meet Allman again. Of course

Patterson will come with you, and the more from Belfast

the better. The chemists will be very strong this year,

with Faraday at their head ; and the geologists intend
Ialso to fight hard.
                      shall give you further news in a
Iday or two, when have had time to see and hear."
Again, on the 17th of the same month :-- " The
Imeeting will be a very splendid one.
                                       have just seen

Wheatstone, who tells me that everybody will be there.
. . . My papers are as follows :--

    " In Section G. -- A joint paper with Ibbetson (with

splendid models) on the Isle of Wight Cretaceous Sys

                         2A
370  MEMOIR OF                                 CHAP. XI.

tem, including some startling new views of my own.

I expect a shower of thunderbolts on my head for this.

  "In Section D. -- 1. My theory of the Polype vesicle,
Iwhich, with all becoming modesty, hold to be one of

the greatest (ideal) discoveries in natural history for
many a day. 2. An Account of Macandrew's Disco

veries, including the new Virgularia, and a new genus

of zoophytes, a creeping Alcyonium from Loch Fyne.

I3. (If have time), on a new Beroe proper, and some

anatomical notes on Cydippe. Besides contributions to

the Dredging Report, which will be good."
    In the paper on the Sertularian Zoophyte,1 after

alluding to the recognised doctrine of the ideal meta

morphosis of the leaf or vegetable individual, in order

to play a part in the reproduction of the species, he

proceeds to inquire whether some of the humbler com

posite animals may not show an analogy of parts and

functions. The example cited as illustrating such an

analogy was the Sertularian polype, a branched, horny,

plant-like animal, the branches of which are studded

with little cups or cells. Each of these cells is the
abode of a distinct and independent individual, and yet

each individual shares in the common existence of the

colony. Now, at certain periods in the life of the zoo

phyte, there appear projecting from the central stalk or

axis, or springing from its branches, variously-formed
bodies called " vesicles," in which the ova are eventually

formed. It was the object of this paper to show that

these vesicles really arise from a process analogous to
i " On the Morphology of the Repro-
                                        ductive System of the Flowering Plant."

ductive System of the Sertularian Zoo-  Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. December

phyte, and iU analogy with the Repro-   1844.
1844.  EDWARD FORBES.  371

that which produces the flower in a plant, viz., through
an arrest of individual development, and the transforma
tion of the individuals into an ovigerous mass, the little
cells uniting to form protecting sheaths, within which
the development of the new individuals is carried on.

     On getting back to London after the York meeting,

he wrote (19th October 1844) :--
     " Dear Thompson, --By this time you will have re

covered the excitement of the York meeting. I went

from York to Percy's at Birmingham, and found Faraday
and his lady staying at P.'s. This was very delightful,

as I had an opportunity of studying Faraday's char
Iacter, which found of the most open, simple, playful,

and philosophical kind. We spent two days together,

the mornings seeing sights and talking over science,
the evenings conjuring and playing tricks, at which
the great chemist is a first-rate hand. He was de
lighted with the York meeting."

     The appointment to the Geological Survey still re
mained as undecided as it had been eight months before.
Sometimes it seemed quite settled, and he was urged to
clear off arrears at the Society, so as to be ready to enter
immediately on the new duties. Then came a shade of
doubt, deepening ere long into dark and hopeless uncer
tainty. In this state of alternate hope and fear, he
remained from the beginning of February till the end of

October.

     He had undertaken the duties of the curatorship with
the determination to discharge them to the full. But

his conception of their nature and extent was so high,
that to fulfil them as he felt they should be fulfilled,
372  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XI.

demanded more thought and time than were compatible
with the simultaneous prosecution of independent ori
ginal research. Add to this the large admixture of
mechanical and uncongenial drudgery which every such
office necessarily entails, the constant distraction of visi
tors, the endless questionings of learned and unlearned,
and the weight of responsibility under which all these
tasks must be borne, and we shall admit that the curator-
ship of the Geological Society, though well suited for
other men, was no place for Edward Forbes.

     Had he been possessed of a robust constitution, great
physical endurance, and a mind little sensitive to the
petty annoyances of life, he might have borne up against
it all, and, indeed, the cheerfulness of his temper did
help to make the irksomeness less pressing. But the

confinement eventually told upon his health, the inability

to find time for study, especially for the preparation of

the ^Egean Sea researches, preyed upon his spirits, the
daily returning toil, and the constant turmoil of excite

ment, almost drove him to despair. At the same time,
it must be freely admitted that as he had never yet been

accustomed to regular and continuous labour, he would
have felt any situation irksome that demanded it. Thus,
duties which another could have accomplished with ease,
and which in the end he might easily have himself dis
charged, were naturally enough regarded by him as an
intolerable burden. But, more than all, he felt that

precious years were rolling away, while his own legiti
mate work as a naturalist remained unaccomplished.
He had tried in vain to find the needful leisure ; his

spare hours, when they could be given to work at all,
1844.  EDWARD FORBES.  373

were claimed by other and more urgent duties. But
oftcner he returned to his home in the evening too jaded
for work, and too glad of a vacant hour, to use it in
any other way than in enjoying the luxury of doing

nothing.
      The misfortunes that had visited his family con

tributed not a little to his anxiety. His father's pecuni
ary resources, which were once ample, had all been lost ;
one brother who had been unsuccessful in Australia,

returned to find the home-circle broken up ; his only
sister had been prostrated on a bed of sickness, from

which it was for a while doubtful if she would ever rise ;

the youngest brother seemed to have caught the seeds of
a lingering and fatal disease ; and the next (also a mere
boy) looked for education and help from Edward, who,
toiling as he did, could barely earn what sufficed for his
own maintenance.

     How earnestly he longed for a quieter and more
remunerative post, his own letters show. For several
months the prospect of the Survey appointment kept
dancing fitfuDy before him, now on the eve of settle
ment, now as remote as ever. To his other vexations
was added all the torment of suspense. The hope de
ferred that maketh the heart sick, threw a gloom over his
spirit which all the innate buoyancy and cheerfulness of
his nature could not dispel, and often in the bitterness
of his soul he wished he had never forsaken the brush, or

had chosen some profession that would have kept him
out of pecuniary straits, and enabled him to help his

family as he yearned to do.
     Finally, however, towards the end of October, the Sur
374            MEMOIR OF                      CHAP. XI.

vey appointment was settled, and Forbes prepared to enter
on his new duties. Like the office of Curator, that of

Palaeontologist must still keep him away from his purely
zoological work. He knew this well at the outset. We
cannot fail to perceive, however, that his interest in geo

logical research, always strong, had, during his connexion

with the Geological Society, been greatly increased by
additions to his knowledge, and still more by the abun
dant opportunities of bringing his natural history acquire
ments to bear upon geological questions. The new world
of zoo-geological investigation, of which he had caught
the first glimpse many years before, in the Isle of Man,
had been slowly growing in extent and interest as he
approached it. Few explorers had yet visited at least
               a by
in those wide regions that were opening out to his view.  it by it,
While toiling away at Somerset House, he had seen more
and more of this new country. And though the un-                                                      a

arranged results of his iEgean work still kept him fret

fully longing to get back to the older domain of zoology,
first, the delay in obtaining the Government grant, and
then the hindrances of his official duties, kept him

where he was.

     Thus, partly his own choice, and partly neces

sity, he was compelled, as we have seen in the case of

the curatorship, and now again as we shall find in that

of Palaeontologist, to forego his more purely zoological

- work, and effect compromise by dovetailing  with

geology. This compromise was made reluctantly enough

at first, but the growing interest of the new work soon

reconciled him to the change. The working out of the

yEgean researches was indefinitely postponed until
EDWARD FORBES.  375

season of greater rest and leisure should arrive. And

after the first repugnance passed away, he entered heart
and soul into that line of palaeontological or zoo-geo
logical research which occupied the remainder of his life,
and on which his fame chiefly rests.
              CHAPTER XII.

              THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.

To Sir Henry de la Beche, of happy memory, the

last of a long line of barons that came to England with

the Conqueror, Great Britain owes her Geological Survey,

              those of her colonies. A little unobtru
and, through  it,
                 a
                                                          a

                                                                                                           ;

                                                                               a
sive stone marks where he lies in Kensal-Green                                                                bust

of him stands in the lower hall of the Jermyn Street

Museum, and you may chance now and then to light
upon his engraved likeness in the library of one who
cherishes his memory. But no public epitaph records
the labours of man who for many long year, with

unwearied energy, spent time and toil and money in the
service of his country, and in the cause of science. The

volumes which he wrote, with the Survey and Museum

which he founded and fostered, form, after all, his most

fitting epitaph, as well as his proudest memorial. To

have begun a great public work at his own charges, to
have fought under every disadvantage with successive
Governments, little friendly to science, and gradually to
have extorted from them the nucleus of national sur
ill
                            it

                                                            a

                                                                                                 a
vey, to have guarded its progress, and watched each

opportunity to increase its efficiency, and to have lived
to he si its head, when had grown up into eon
1844.  MEMOIR OF EDWARD FORBES.        377

spicuous branch of the Civil Service, and one of the

most important scientific institutions of the country, --

these are feats which speak their own glory, and which
will place the name of Henry de la Beche in no mean
rank among the benefactors of his country.

     It was under this leader that our naturalist was now

to serve. The staff consisted at that time of nine geolo
gists1 and a palaeontologist, with some assistants, in the

Museum at Craig's Court, which was the head-quarters
of the Survey. The duties of the geologists were to in
vestigate the structure of the country, and to insert on
the maps of the Ordnance Survey the various lines of

the different rocks, colouring the sheets eventually as
independent geological maps. But in order to do this
correctly, it was of course necessary to have frequent
recourse to an accurate discrimination of fossils, and for

this purpose a palaeontologist was appointed, to deter
mine the nature and names of the organic remains ob
tained by the surveyors or by the fossil-collectors. The

palaeontologist had thus occasion not only to work in
the Museum, but also to visit the districts where the

geologists were mapping, so as to see the rocks with the
fossils in them, and to fix many points which no palae

ontologist can adequately determine, save by a personal

inspection in the field. At present, the surveyors work

singly, each taking his own district, but at the period in

i These were--                                Mr. W. Talbot Aveline.
                                              Mr. Heury W. Bristow.
    Mr. A. C. Rnmsay, Local Director.
   Captain James, It.E.                       Mr. William H. Baily.
    Mr. Warrington W. Smyth.              The Palaeontologist was Professor Ed-
   Professor John Phillips.
    Mr. David Williams.                ward Foil>es, and tho Fossil Collector.
                                       Mr. Richard Gibbs.
    Mr. Trevor E. James.
378                  MEMOIR OF                     CHAP. XII.

the Survey's history to which reference is now made, the

geologists surveyed in parties of two or three, or even

more. Sir Henry used to be much with them, generally

leaving London about the 1st April. Hence, at little

out-of-the-way villages, there would sometimes be col

lected half-a-dozen stalwart hammerers, who took up all

the beds and devoured all the provisions the resources

of the place could supply.

     Of this active and enthusiastic band, Edward Forbes

became a member on the 1st November 1844, with a

salary of £300 a year. With his cautious foresight, he
drew up a memorandum of his duties, stipulating that

his jurisdiction should extend over the whole of the

fossils collected by the Survey in the three kingdoms,

and should not be controlled except by the Director-

General. This memorandum was accepted by the Board

of Ordnance,1 and contained the following clauses :--

     " 1st, The examination and description of the or

ganic remains collected during the operations of the

Survey.
     " 2d, The classification and arrangement of the said

organic remains, in such order and manner as may most

benefit the public, and tend at the same time to advance

the interests of geology and the natural history sciences.
     "
         3c?,  The  superintendence        of the  publication  of an

account of such organic remains, and of drawings and

engravings of them.

   i At this time negotiations were in     were finally completed, and a Treasury
                                           Minute was issued, authorizing the junc-
progress for the transference of the Geo-  tion of the Survey and the Craig's Court
logical Survey from the Board of Ord-      Museum, under the control of the Office
nance to the Department of Woods and       of Woods, etc,
Forests. In tho beginning of the fol-

lowing year (1845), the arrangements
1844.        EDWARD FORBES.                    379

       4th, The communication of information respecting

organic remains, etc., whenever the Government may

require such information.

      5lh, The attendance on the field operations of the
Survey during a portion of the year, in order to observe

the distribution of organic remains, and their relation to

the strata, so as to verify and correct inductions drawn

in the Museum, and to aid the surveyors in their deter

minations."

       For some weeks after the date of his appointment he

continued at the Geological Society, finishing what could
be completed in time, and putting everything in train
for his successor. The change, he said, was " a great re
lief both to body and mind," and he now began to think

of joining the Societies1 which his straitened means had

"Ihitherto prevented. To Mr. Thompson he wrote,

shall now be proposed as early as possible at the Royal

and the Geological, and shall also sound Stokes on the
If Isubject of the Athenaeum.
                                   succeed in all these

Iintentions shall be in a good position here, and doubt
whether I would leave it for poor
                                   's chair."

       The sensation of relief found vent in a characteristic

way. Along with several of his more intimate friends

he established a beef-steak dinner-party, which was to be

convened on the third Thursday of every month there

after, and to bear the cognomen of the Metropolitan Red
Lions. This club has been alluded to in a previous

chapter as a scion of the old stock that sprang up in the
British Association. Its first members were original Red

   l He was elected a Fellow of the Geological Society on 4th December 1844 ; of the
Royal Society on 13th February 1845.
380  MEMOIR OF            CHAP. XII.

Lions, aud carried with them into the younger brother

hood all the mingled mirth and earnestness that charac

terized its prototype. Forbes was its acknowledged head.

He sang there some of his merriest songs, and told some

of his raciest stories, amid the vociferous growls and

applauding tails of his leonine brethren. His influence

in these meetings was unbounded, but was an eminently

beneficial one. He drew around him the younger scien

tific men of London, and while the brilliancy and play

fulness of his conversation, and the open-hearted cordi

ality of his nature, bound them to himself, they became

thereby insensibly united to each other, and linked to
Ifgether as one band.
                          he showed how a naturalist

might be thoroughly social, he proved also by his daily

life, that the same naturalist could be a patient, earnest

searcher after truth. They knew how diligently he worked,

and they could the better appreciate these periodical re

laxations, when the exuberance of his spirit gushed forth
in sparkling wit and merry song.

      The " Metropolitan Lions," though at first, as Forbes
called them, " philosophers," eventually numbered among

their ranks not a few who, with no peculiar scientific

tastes, yet possessed that love of good fellowship, which

formed the cementing bond of the fraternity. Douglas

Jerrold and Lover, for instance, both became Red Lions,

and they with kindred spirits used ever to gather round

Forbes, in whose company, artist, litterateur, and savant

met as on common ground.

     The foundation of a new society, however, by no

means diminished his love for the old. The interest he
.still took in the " Brotherhood," seemed almost as lively
1844.  EDWARD FORBES.  381

            as it used to be in Edinburgh. With Mr. Goodsir and
             Dr. Wilson, especially the latter, he kept up a correspond
            ence regarding Ijie organization of the Order, and often
            in the midst of the turmoil in London he would sit down
            to write to the North for news of the brethren. His
            letters to his more intimate friends still bore conspicuously
            on their front the mystic triangle. The initials of his
             name were often worked into the same symbol, and when
            he wished to express the full measure of his sympathy
            and friendship, he coined an adverb out of the triangle,

         and subscribed himself, " Ever yours Aly, E. F."

                 But the lapse of years had somewhat stricken the
            " Universal Brotherhood of the Friends of Truth." Some

             of the brethren had done little to strengthen and propa
           gate the principles of the Order ; others hadeven violated

           them openly, and proved themselves wholly unworthy to
             wear the "roseate band." Hence those who had remained

             true to their vows, and were in consequence rising rapidly
· in their various spheres of employment, looked askance at

           the delinquents, and even in some cases, transferred their
             dislike to the Order itself. Matters had evidently come

          to a crisis when Forbes wrote thus to George Wilson :--

            I" 16th October. -- regret to hear you say the name

           of ' frater' is not so dear to you as it was. You must
           not blame a body for the false actions or foolish ones of
            some, or even many of its members. Bear in mind there
            is always a band who, holding the true principles of the
           Brotherhood, will stand firm together and maintain them.
           You should stand with such, and not retire with the dis

            contented. That the Order requires thorough renewal, we
           are all agreed ; and accordingly, at York, a small conclave
382           MEMOIR OF      CHAP. XII.

met and discussed the matter very fully, seeking out the

causes of evil and the remedies. The former we traced

(as we believed) to the system of goyernment (which
will not work, and must be changed), and to the apathy

and misconduct of some brethren who must be made to

retire ; but the principles, as set forth in the formula
which poor dead Dobbie ornamented with his graver, one

and all bound themselves to. One remedy proposed,

Iand, believe, a good one, is to demand (after the puri

fication has taken place) annually an account of the
doings of each ' frater.' Suggestions, however, will be
demanded of every one ; and do not, my dear friend,

from disgust at the unfraternal conduct of any, desert a
bond of union which may yet do good, and which may

be put into action, the better, now that such among us

as have a mission are gaining reputation, which gives

power."

     A month after this, he referred to the same subject
IIin a letter to Dr. Percy. " hope, now that have got
Iquit of the G. S. (Geological Society), shall have time
Ato make all                 If possible, I shall run up
              arrangements.

to Edinburgh in Christmas week for that purpose." This

intention he eventually accomplished, spending a few
days in Edinburgh, where his younger brother Dcivid
had entered Dr. Wilson's class for chemistry. The
breathing time afforded him by the change of duties,
from the Society to the Survey, was not of long dura

tion, and ere the winter had well begun, Forbes found as
much to occupy him in the second office as he had found

in the first. The distraction, however, was greatly

lessened, and if he could not obtain leisure to carry on
1844.     EDWARD FORBES.              383

his own work, lie at least was able to attend without

much interruption to that of the Survey. " I have very

snug quarters," he wrote to Thompson, " and have denied
admission to all geologists." The fossil collections at Craig's
Court had to be arranged and studied. The surveyors
were at this . time engaged in unravelling the geological
structure of Wales, where constant reference had to be

made to fossil evidence. Parcel after parcel of fossils

was sent up to the head-office to be determined by the

Palaeontologist, and on his decision rested the determina
tion of many of the geological lines. These duties, and
the completion of his elaborate Reports for the Geologi

cal Society, left Forbes no available leisure, save now

and then for some lighter production, as a short article

in the Literary Gazette.
     The Vestiges of the Natural Histonj of Creation

appeared towards the close of this year. Among the
many denunciatory criticisms of that clever but crude
volume, was one by Forbes in the columns of the Lancet.
He speaks of his review as " short and pithy, taking

effect on the unknown author as well as on the pub

lisher."

     He undertook to give a course of eight weekly lec
tures at the Royal Institution, but had no time, he said,

to make them other than commonplace.  The subject
chosen was, " The Natural History and Geological Dis

tribution of Fossil Marine Animals." In the first four

lectures, he gave an outline of the fossil marine faunae,
from a natural history point of view ; in the second half,
he pointed out the order of succession, as displayed in

the geological formations, and concluded by declaring
384                    MEMOIR OF                               CHAP. XII.

his disbelief in any transmutation of species in time, or

creation in strict serial order, and his opinion that the
laws which regulated the distribution of animals in time,

were probably correspondent to those which regulate
their present distribution in space.

     The light in which he regarded the Royal Institution
is well expressed in a letter to Dr. Percy, written shortly

Ibefore the commencement of these lectures : " would

urge strongly on       to look far beyond the applause

of the Royal Institution (a capricious though capable

audience), and to work mainly at his discoveries for the

Association and for the Royal Society, to which, if he

has any very elaborate papers, there would be no diffi

culty in submitting them. His lectures here will, I hope,

however, gain him some influential friends. Let his

                     of
                        of

                               is

                                of

                                                                       a
                                                                                     is,
facts and illustrations be as striking as possible, that

as remarkable to that part  the audience (more than

half) which co7isiste  those who know nothing at all

about the science      the matter, as to those who know

and understand. This the secret of success in the

Royal Institution and in London. It was the secret of

Davy and Faraday, and of all who have made sudden
and meteoric reputation in this ugly, unphilosophical,

lion -hunting centre of the universe."
     While his lectures were still in course of delivery, he

entered the Athenaeum Club (28th January 1845), under
circumstances of peculiarly gratifying kind. Without
reference to the date of his proposal, he was, on the

strong recommendation of Professor Owen, specially
                  a
                                                          it,
elected by the committee, and this highly honourable
admission, or " short cut," as he called
                                                               was due in
IMS. EDWARD FORBES. 385

great measure to the publication of his York paper on

the morphology of the Sertularian zoophyte.

     The subject of this paper also furnished material for
one of the Friday evening discourses at the Royal In

stitution (14th February), which he had undertaken to
give, in addition to the course of lectures, to the mem

bers of the same Association. Of the latter series, the

last lecture was written on the 11th of March. The

letter to Mr. Thompson, in which he mentions gives
picture of his daily life at this time -- " Yesterday was
I

                         a

                                                                                    :

                                                                   it,

                                                    I; a
taken up with my last lecture at the Royal Institution,

which began, concluded, and ended during the day

and from the exciting nature of the subject, was unfit

for even reading  newspaper afterwards. To-day

have only one hour to spare, which hour must be taken

up answering some eight letters accumulated during the

last week, one of them your own. In half-an-hour's

time have to attend Sir Henry on Survey matters,
aI I
        ;which will last till three o'clock three to six, Geological
         I                          ;
                           ;Council (matters of consequence that must not be'
missed) the rest of the evening with Geological Society,
                 IIand dinner-time snatching half-an-hour between eight

and nine to see the drawings at the Graphic.'
     " cannot and dare not work in the evening, and

am far too anxious and busy at present for my bodilya

welfare. All can do can't get right, nor will, until I

have long run in the country. Three days week,a
and half of every day, am not in fit state for work
of any kind, and can only hope. My chief objects at

present are, to get the Lycia out, to watch the progress

                              2
                                 B
386  MEMOIB OF  CHAP. XII.

of the Survey arrangements, and assist De la Beche, to
get out my remaining papers formerly read at the Geo

logical Society, and to get my botanical lectures over,

and to keep awake till they are finished. The " iEgean
Zoology " is at a stand-still. Without room to lay out

the specimens in consultablc order1, or time to study

them, or my own way about their publication, it is a
I Icheerless task, and unless can do it well, which could
I Iif I had leisure, have no wish to do it at all.
                                                    feel

almost vexed now that the grant was applied for or

given."
     The contest with bodily pain and debility to which

he alludes in this letter, sometimes nearly paralysed all
mental exertion. His first lecture, for instance, he re
garded as such a failure, that " illness only could excuse

it." Moreover, to physical weakness was still added

anxiety regarding his family. "Had I foreseen," he

bitterly exclaims, " the torrent of misfortunes which has

Ipoured on my family, should have taken some other

course in life that might have enabled me to assist

them, which science is not very likely to do, though all
very well for one's-self." Yet from these depressing

thoughts he could pass rapidly into a lighter mood ;

grave and gay alternated with him as often and as

naturally as light and shadow athwart an April land

scape, and in the brighter intervals his spirits often

found their vent in song. It was during one of these

moments that he wrote this spring a Palaeontologist's

Valentine.
EDWARD FORBES.  387

                                         VALENTINE.1

                                                       BY A PAI..f.OKTOI.OgisT.

                           Borne upon Fterodactylc's wing,
                              This heart, which once you deemed of stone,

                  IModel of maids, to thee bring,

                              And offer it lo thea alone !
                              Not Owen, pondering o'er bone
                          Of great Dinornis, fonder grew
                              Of mighty wingless birds unknown,
                       Than I, sweet maid, of you.

                          The Glyptodon, which Darwin found
                              Beside the South Atlantic main,

                          Was in no harder armour bound,.
                              Than that my spirit did enchain ;
                          Till, bade by thee, Love rent in twain

                          The fetters which my fancy tied
                              To boulder, glacier, and moraine,

                          And bore me to thy side !

                          Like some fantastic Trilobite
                              That perished in Silurian sea,

                          And long lay hid from mortal sight,

                     ISo was the heart yield to thec.

                              Now from its stony matrix free,
                       Thy palaeontologic skill

                              Once more hath call'd it forth to be
                          The servant of thy will.

           UEoi.ogicAr. Society, Feb. 14.

     He refers to this song in a letter to Mr. Thompson.
" Look at last Literary Gazette," he says, " for a song of
mine. Buckland amusingly enough quoted it in full at
the geological anniversary dinner yesterday, not know
ing the author. De la Beche afterwards, in returning
thanks for the Survey, wickedly proclaimed that it camo
from our staff, and urged it as a proof that any sort of
article could be produced in the Museum of Economic

Geology."
     The " Universal Brotherhood," as we have seen, still

                                           i From the Literary Gazette.
388             MEMOIR OP       CHAP. XII.

lived, and those brethren who were resident in London

met on the 9 th of March to celebrate the anniversary of
the Order. The " Red Lions" too had some merry even

ings this spring, continuing to add to their numbers, and
not unfrequently welcoming to their board those " Asso
ciation Lions" from the provinces who happened to be in

London at the time. The evening of the 17th April is

especially chronicled as one of the most thoroughly en

joyed in the long history of the club. They met at the
" Cheshire Cheese" in Fleet Street, twenty in number,
including Owen, Goodsir, Falconer, Forbes, A. C. Ramsay,
Captain James, Morris, Francis, Jerdan, Cook Taylor,

Richard Taylor, Tulk, Henry, Henfrey, Busk, Water-

house, Playfair, and Chambers.

     The spring months wore away, and May brought

round again the lectures at King's College. These were

not over when the British Association met at Cambridge
in July, two months earlier than usual. Forbes attended

the meeting, however, and lodged with a merry party at
                "I go up," so he wrote to Dr. Percy,
Jesus College.
" with a paper on the geographical distribution of local

plants, a very curious subject which will take many people
Iby surprise.
                am prepared to show that the present

flora of Great Britain originated in at least four distinct

geological epochs." He also read at this meeting,
" Notices of Natural History Observations bearing on
Geology." The first paper formed the groundwork 6f

his memoir on the same subject published the next spring

in the first volume of the Memoirs of the Geological Sur

vey. It formed, too, an epoch in geological speculation,

and in its completed form, is unquestionably one of the
1*15.  EDWARD FORBES.  389

most masterly, as well as beautiful generalizations to be
found in the whole range of British scientific literature.

     The " Red Lions" met as usual every day during the

meeting.
      Forbes now left London to enjoy some weeks of cruis

ing and dredging in the far North. We have seen in a
previous chapter, that when during his residence in Edin
burgh he visited the Shetlands, he found so much to
interest him, that at the end of his notes he added " N. B.

Must go back to Shetland." Since that time six years
had rolled away ; in the interval, the struggle to obtain
a lectureship in Scotland, the cruisings in the iEgean,
and the two weary years at the Geological Society, had
come and gone, and the enthusiastic student had merged
into the equally enthusiastic, but much harder-worked
professor. He gladly availed himself now of the oppor

tunity of revisiting the northern extremity of the king
dom. Starting about the middle of July, he arrived at
Lerwick, and found there awaiting his arrival, Mr. Mac-
andrew of Liverpool, who had come in his yacht by the
West Coast, dipping his dredge here and there by the way
with no little success. One object our naturalist had in
view in this voyage was to farniliarize himself with the sea
weeds, especially with their distribution in definite zones
of depth. But of course, the chief portion of the time was
occupied in dredging. Among the results of the first fort
night he enumerates twenty new species of medusae, all
of which he carefully sketched and described at the time ;

 two or three new molluscs, and two new cchinoderms.
 One of the most interesting features of the excursion was

 the discovery of several living molluscs, which had up to
390  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

that time only been known in a fossil state, associated, in
the pleistocene beds of the Clyde and elsewhere, with
northern shells.

      From the Shetlands the naturalists cruised south-west

among the Hebrides, dredging in the deep kylcs and
lochs that indent these wild western shores. By the
middle of August they had dropped into the Bay of Oban,
whence they made for Loch Fyne, spending two success
ful days there with the dredge, and eliciting some curious

and new facts regarding the physiology of the berde. It

was the beginning of September before Forbes returned
to London. He had no sooner arrived there, however,

than he received instructions to join Sir Henry de la
Beche in Ireland, to assist in the determination of the
rocks of Hook Point, Wexford.

      Sir Henry's enthusiasm and activity were at this
time fully equal to those of his staff. Often he was
ready for work by dawn, and did not drop hammer till
dusk. The excitement of detecting new fossils, and
recognising old ones, of eliciting the grand physical
structure of the country, and disentangling the intricacy
of its details, kept the party busily at work. The fresh
ness of out-door labour, by breathing new life and

heartiness into their spirits, braced them for physical
exertion. No company, indeed, was likely to lack life
when De la Beche and Forbes were members of it.

They threw a charm round their work, even in its dullest

parts, that stimulated their colleagues, and again react
ing on themselves, kept the party in perpetual activity
and good humour. The evenings, too, after the walking
and hammering of the day were done, passed merrily
VU5. EDWARD FORBES. 391

away by the fireside of some cabin or village inn, Forbes

chanting some of his humorous scientific songs, or in
scribing them on sheets of foolscap, with gnomes, fairies,

and other quaint devices along the margin.

   Very pleasant, therefore, were these days in Wex

ford. They had but one annoyance, but it was so serious

as almost to outweigh the pleasure. They allowed of no

time for anything save the work of the Survey, so that,

in the midst of his enjoyment, Forbes found his thoughts

reverting to the iEgean stores, still untouched, and to

the notes of travel in Lycia, which had been sent to him

by Lieutenant Spratt, with a view to publication, but

which he had been able to do little more than begin.
The long hours of Sir Henry only permitted a page or

two to be done every day, a rate of progress that pro

mised to keep the book many months in preparation.
"
"  I fear," he writes to Mr. Thompson (17th September),

   this survey, however pleasant, will never admit of

other pursuits than its own."

   After an absence of about a month, be returned to

London to begin the work of the winter. To Mr.

Thompson, he writes :--
    "Nov. 15. --Sir Henry is out of town, and I am

availing myself of his absence to get on with the ' Lycia,'

i.e., getting three hours every morning for the work.

IIBut as can only write when am in the humour, and

am abominably sulky and gloomy at the hopelessness of

working science in this clerk-like system of ten to four
every day-- no time for thought, reading, writing, or

Itravelling -- am in the humour very seldom, and can
do nothing. I feel like a bird in a cage, and sing out
392  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

from pure vexation. I begin to think science all hum
Ibug, and think, almost with fear, on the habit am

getting into of rejoicing when office-hours are over. As
to the ^Egean researches being worked out, it was a
pleasant dream while it lasted. People without inde

pendence have no business to meddle with science. It

should never be linked with lucre."

      These fits of despondency either prognosticated or
induced an illness, which began about the middle of
December, and confined him to his room for six weeks.

Nephritic ailments had been hereditary in his family,
and it was found that with him also the same organs
were unsound. The illness began by derangement of
the kidneys, which increased to suppuration, produced
by the presence of a crystalline deposit. The process of

cure, by cupping and blistering, with the accompanying
low diet, sadly reduced the strength of a frame that had
never much to lose. Work, too, was strictly forbidden ;
and so, while the printers waited for the sheets of the
Lycian travels, and the Geological Survey for his indis
pensable assistance in the determination of fossils, he

had to lie in bed, or, when able, sit by the fireside,

reading Clarendon and writing letters. It was but

natural that the letters should be fretful. He draws
gloomy pictures of the future, how his days of book-

making are over, and how nothing in the literary way
remains to him, save the hope of perhaps now and then
throwing off a squib or song, all chance of ever working
out his researches has gone, and no prospect stretches
out before him, save one long and dreary pathway of
uncongenial toil and drudgery, ending he knows not
1845.             EDWARD FORBES.               393

when, and cares not how. But in all this he had more

than the mere sick man's plea, and he attempts to justify
his repinings in a letter to Mr. Thompson :--
       I"Dec. 29, 1845. -- write this scrawl from my bed,
I Iin which have spent my Christmas.
                                      have had a

Ivery unpleasant attack of illness, but hope am now

getting over it.
       " In your last you chided my discontent, but mistook
Ithe cause.
                  am not despondent though discontented

about income ; that at present is as much or more than

I Ihad a right to look for, but because as long as hold
Imy present office -- which must, to exist-- there is no
Ichance of my doing any of the work which had chalked

out for myself. All my iEgean material must go for

nothing, and as to my literary prospects, they must be
Iconsigned to the tomb of all the Cnpulets.
                                               find every

day that in these Government clerkships they would

rather make one idle the time than do anything not

official One is no longer a free agent, but a (well-used)

slave. If things went better with my unfortunate
Ifamily would brave all chances, but must not for the

sake of others."

    Again, --"12th January 1846. -- The plain fact is

Ithat have no chance of doing any of my own work as

long as I am connected with the Survey. The Edin

burgh Chair of Natural History is the only outlet of

I I Iescape can see, and have warnings that must keep
Imy eye open to that quarter, probably very soon.

have, however, very little hope, for those who wish me

Ito remain here, will, feel sure, not aid my departure.
IHowever, shall make an effort; the more so because
394  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

the complaint which now tortures me is one, the return
and intensity of which will depend much on ease of
mind and freedom from pressure of work."

      After the lapse of six weeks he began to go out of
doors for a Bhort time every day, and by degrees re
covered sufficiently to attend once more at Craig's Court,
but it was long before he had resumed his wonted
·measure of health ; all the rest of the spring and summer

he complained of pain and weakness, and though these

wore away, the effects of this illness are traceable
through the remainder of his life, and it was a return of
the same disease which ultimately carried him to the

grave.

     By the 2 '7th of February, he had gained strength
enough to resume his place as a lecturer at the Royal
Institution. On March 9th, he writes to Mr. Thompson,
-- "The lecture was a brief abridgment of one of my
Survey reports -- ' On the relation of the existing fauna
and flora of Britain to the later geological changes, and
especially to the epoch of the northern drift.' One half of

this is now in the press, and I am hard at work at the
Irest. Though the father of it myself, will say that this

paper will change, nay, revolutionize the whole subject
of the geography of botany and zoology, or rather, will
be the herald of such a change.

     " The first vol. of ' Lycia' is now printed, and the
second is in the press."

   "IMarch 2%th. -- am getting stronger, and I trust

better, but this weather, and the ovcrpress of work (now

to last till middle of July) sadly impede a fair recovery.

I don't half like my bodily condition. I take every care,
1RJ6. EDWARD FORBES. 395

drink water, eat by rule,, and rarely go out at night,

but the real remedies, leisure and country air, are not to

be had.

     " My Report for the Survey still goes on, and will
be a coup d'ccil of the history of the British flora and

fauna of a very novel kind. De la Beche fortunately has
taken an interest in and lets me write partly at my
I

                           it,

                                                                              '

                                                       it
                                                                    I.
rooms. The printers are behind with Lycia/ not
     " have just terrified the geologists by maintaining

at their meeting that identity of fossils in strata geo

graphically far apart, must lead to the inference that the
beds were of different, not, as hitherto maintained, of

the same age."

     Two days after this letter was written, viz., on the

evening of Monday, March 30th, he gave the first of
I.

                :

                                                                                           a
series of six lectures to the members of the London
Institution, " On the Geographical and Geological Dis

tribution of Organized Beings." The general nature of
these lectures may be gathered from the subjoined list of

their titles --

     " On the Geographical Distribution of Existing Land Animals

and Plants.

    II. On the Geographical Distribution of Existing Aquatic Animals

and Plants.

  III." On the Geological Distribution of Organized Beings during the

more ancient Epochs.

   " IV. On the Distribution of Organized Beings during the later geo

logical periods.

    " V. On the History and Origin of the existing Animals and Plants

of the British Islands.              Comparative View of the Distri
                                     a
   " VI. Conclusions resulting from                                            4

bution of existing and extinct Animals and Plants."

The last lecture of the series was given on the th of
396  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

May, and then came the botanical course at King's Col
lege. This constant lecturing tasked his strength not a
little, and it was with an inexpressible sense of relief,
that about the middle of July he found himself free to
leave London. Before doing so, however, he had the
satisfaction of completing his great paper " On the con
nexion between the distribution of the existing Fauna
and Flora of the British Isles, and the Geological changes
which have affected their area, especially during the epoch
of the Northern Drift."

     In addition to this long and elaborate Memoir, the
last chapter of " Lycia" was also completed. Forbes had

thus written this spring, in addition to other duties, a
memoir of one hundred closely printed pages of wholly
original matter ; and had prepared for the press two
octavo volumes containing, among lighter subjects, much

careful scientific writing. A few weeks of rest were

 thus needed, and he hastened to enjoy them.
       Mr. Macandrew had invited him to a dredging cruise

 between Liverpool and Southampton, and as the Asso
 ciation was to meet this year at the latter locality, he
 resolved to accept the invitation. To Mr. Ramsay, his

 intimate friend and colleague in the Survey, he writes,

 23d July 1846 :--

     " Dear Ramsay, --I am in a fix in so many ways,
 Ithat am doubtful about how to arrange. My lectures
Iare just over, but have not yet succeeded in getting

 the printer to push the Lycian Travels through the press.
 They are delaying over Greek inscriptions, and the delays

 Ihave been so long and vexatious, that will not move

 till it is through. A week, however, will tell how it
EDWARD FORBES.                        397

advances. There are only fifty pages of it more to print.

The writing was done long ago.
      " On the other hand, the Geological Society people

are pressing me about the Pondicherry Report, which is

now ordered to be printed.
     " Thirdly, Macandrew has written to me offering to

take me round from Liverpool to Southampton after the

I10th in his yacht. A part of this sail am resolved to

go with him, as it will give me an opportunity of exa

mining the sea-bottom between Wales and the Land's

End, an opportunity not to be neglected for our own
Iafter-work. In a few days, however,
                                      will have seen

my way clearer through my work, and will write again.

The clearing away of the ' Lycia' and the Geological

Report will ease my mind a good deal, and leave me

freer."

     Again to the same friend :--

    " I must delay joining you till after the Meeting,
IInow that see plainly cannot get away from this be

fore the week after next. Macandrew has then offered

to take me in his yacht on a cruise round the Land's

End to Southampton. The observations during such a

Icruise would complete much have in hand, and add

greatly to the stock of information required for working

out our own fossils. But this is not the main reason for

my going. My complaints still linger about me, and I

feel sundry twitches daily that give me some alarm,

I Ibesides which am very evidently not as well as ought

to be. The first point with me, according to my medical

friends, is to get pure air without much exercise. This

I can get on board Mr. Macandrew's yacht, which move
398                                      MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

Ithey strongly recommend. Once a little pulled up,

must combine the exercise with the air, and keep out of

London as much as possible through the autumn. Join
ing you, and getting clear work with you, will be best

Ifor this, and such propose to do after the Meeting.
I IBut in order to do this, must clear off all have linger
Iing on my hands here, and this detains me. 1st, must

draught out a series of work for Bone and Baily.1 (This

Iis now nearly done.) 2d, must see the last sheets of

the book on Lycia through the press. (This, I am happy
Ito say, is also nearly done.) 3d, must see the Pondi-
cherry Report in hand at the Geological. 4th, I must

give in Burmeister corrected to the Ray2 Society : so

Iyou see that have a precious press of work, not by any

means easy in this broiling weather. Sir Henry approves
of my moves."

      The work was accomplished in time to give him a

i Two of the artists employed in the             this word. He once ended a letter by
                                                 subscribing himself--
Ge'olFoogribceasl  Survey.
                   had a characteristic  pun on

                                                 " A Mkmrkh ok tnh Kay Clur."
1S4G.            EDWARD FORBES.                    399

week or two on the Atlantic previous to the meeting of

Ithe Association. Just before starting, he wrote, " am

beating up for papers, etc., for the Southampton meeting,

in order to keep up the credit and spirit of the natural
Ihistory section, which at present promises well.
                                                   have

hopes, too, of having persuaded a brace of active physio
logists aud new hands to join the desolate Section E."

The change from the atmosphere of London, charged
with all the heat and stench of midsummer, to the free,

fresh breezes of the Cornish coast, soon revived him. He

had got rid of his pen, too, for a time, and had taken in
its place the dredge, a not less familiar instrument. And
so forgetting all the din and turmoil that were left behind,

he launched with new zest into his old seafaring habits ;

dredged and sketched by turns, or, perchance, lay idly
on the deck watching the gulls that wheeled in circles

above him, and the ripples that kept lapping against the

bulwarks below.

       Putting into Dartmouth, he wrote to his ever-kind

friend, Sir Roderick Murchison (who this year was to

Itake the presidency of the Association) :--" am now on

my way to Southampton, dredging the sea between the

Land's End and Southampton, and hope to bring up not

a few novelties and interesting creatures, alive!' He

sent at the same time some valuable remarks upon the

impetus which he conceived the Association had given
to the progress of natural history researches. The As
sociation having been made the subject of bitter sarcasm
and ignorant abuse by certain writers in the Times, Sir
Roderick was anxious to show, by actual facts, that it

had done good service in many ways. In this desire
400  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

Forbes cordially concurred, furnishing copious notes, in
which the labours of his contemporaries were most
generously narrated. After the meeting, too, he con
tinued his exertions, aiding in the preparation of an
article in the Morning Herald, by one who had recently
been among the most powerful contributors to the
Times. Referring to the end of the whole controversy,

he remarks to Sir Roderick, " It is some consolation to

know that the buffoon who wrote the miserable attacks

in the Times is conscious of his failure, and that his

employers are enraged at their defeat. It was left for

the weakest of all the Thunderer's myrmidons to con
duct the attack ; the best men would have nothing to
do with it. Even Punch grew ashamed of the folly of a

crusade against science, and the few weak squibs which
appeared in its pages were without doubt from the same
hand with the heavy Times' leaders. One of the most

powerful of the wits was so disgusted at the proposition
of an attack, that he immediately wrote an article in
favour in the Daily Neivs. The Association never gained
more friends than through this campaign of the Times,

conducted by a jesting puppet, whose strings were

pulled by sneering and pseudo-scientific humbugs."
     At the Southampton meeting Forbes read --
      1. On the Pulmograde Medusae of the British Seas.
      2. On the localities and geological features of the
               Isle of Wight.
      3. Notices of Natural History observations, made

                since last Meeting, bearing upon Geology.
      On his return to London, he wrote to Mr. Ramsay,

29th September :-- " We missed you at the meeting when
EDWARD FORBES.  401

the Lions had great fun, as I shall tell you when we
meet. My cruise did me much good, hut I must be

very careful about wet and cold this winter, for some
awkward symptoms yet remain." He had arranged to
go down to the Survey in Wales, and accordingly, on
the 14th of October, he joined Professor Ramsay, Mr.
Jukes, and Mr. Aveline, at Bala.

     Sir Henry de la Beche, for the first few days, formed
one of the party. When he left, the surveyors settled
down to unravel the complicated geological structure of
that beautiful locality, each taking his own area, while
Forbes assisted them in turn, as they required palaeon-
tological aid. They were all young, and all enthusiastic ;
their constant exercise in the open air gave them good
appetites and excellent spirits ; the interest and excite
ment of their work drove away all care and anxiety ;

their common labours and common sympathies bound
them pleasantly together, and this bond was rendered all
the closer by that marked endearing influence which, as
we have seen, Forbes had from his boyhood exercised on
his comrades. Thus united, they found the gloomy days
of a dark October wear quickly away. Much of the
weather, indeed, proved too gloomy for Forbes to ven
ture far among the hills. During such intervals of con
finement, he employed himself in-doors among the fossils
from the Silurian rocks of the district, brought to him
chiefly by the excellent and indefatigable Richard Gibbs,
the fossil-collector to the Survey. When he climbed the
mountains, it was after a fashion wholly his own. Wrap
ping himself in an old plaid of the Forbes tartan (green
and black), he would stalk up the steepest slopes with

                                               2o
402  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

the greatest ease and unconcern. When it rained (and

rain had been sufficiently abundant that autumn), he
would crouch beneath a wall or a boulder, and, throwing
his plaid entirely over his body, sit with nothing visible
but the point of his nose protruding from between the

muffled knees. The motionless figure looked somewhat

like a gigantic dirty green toadstool, or, if he showed
more of his face, and perhaps pushed out his long bony
fingers, it had a weird, uncanny look, which a stranger
even of strong nerves would have hardly cared to en
counter alone on a wild mountain side, and which would

certainly have terrified to death any luckless Welshman,

and so have given the mountain a bad name for the next
generation. The litheness of his body at this time was
altogether surprising. Separating his feet, he could sit

down between them, and then twisting his arms through

his legs, bring his knees over his shoulders. In this
position he walked upon his hands, with his face peeping
comically from between his legs, like some of the elvish

forms that he loved so much to design.
      The close of the day brought the several parties home

to their common rendezvous in the little town of Bala.
After dinner, when the notes of the day had been ad
justed and compared, the hour or two before bed-time

(for they all went early to sleep), were passed in easy
chat over the evening pipe. Forbes was never a great
smoker, and now, unable to keep pace with his friends,
he preferred to seize a brush and colour-box, and illus
trate with fays, gnomes, and elves, entwined in wavy
wreaths, some of his own humorous or anacreontic

effusions, throwing out, in the meanwhile however, quip
1S4S.  EDWARD FORBES.  403

and jest aml fun, or telling over, with great glee, some
of his adventures in the East.

     These weeks of rest and gentle excitement sent
Forbes back to the metropolis with body and mind alike
refreshed. He returned on the 14th of November, in

time to take part in an application to Government,
relative to the grant of £500 for the publication of the
iEgean researches. When this grant was given, Sir
Robert Peel had unthinkingly handed it over to the

charge of the Stationery Office, and poor Forbes found
that in place of getting the sum which had been uncon
ditionally given, to dispose of as he judged best, the
entire printing and engraving had been taken out of his
control, and engravers fixed on of whom he had never
heard. To bring out, under these conditions, such a

work as he designed, was of course hopelessly impracti
cable, and hence one cause of his low spirits during the
preceding winter. While still at Bala, the controversy
with the Stationery Office was renewed, by the urgent
appeal of Sir Roderick Murchison and Colonel Sabine

representing to Government how injuriously the restric
tions of that department were operating. They requested
a statement of his views from Forbes, who sent in reply
what he thought a fair report, possibly rather strongly
expressed, though he wrote at the time that he did not
see how he could have said less, without seeming to be
afraid of the revenge of the Stationery Office, even
though that Office could effectually cripple the palaeon
tologist of the Survey in his publications.

      When he reached town, long meetings and audiences
took the place of indignant letters. The end of the
404  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

question, however, was the decision of the Treasury in

his favour. The sum was left to be disposed of accord

ing to his own plan, and all arrangements about printing
and engraving remained entirely at his discretion.

      The money thus granted, and all the material ready
for arrangement and study, nothing further was needed
save leisure to carry on the work. But, unfortunately
for Edward Forbes, and still more unfortunately for

science, this needed leisure never came. Through the
remaining years of his connexion with the Geological
Survey, other engagements pressed upon him, and when

at last he gained the natural history chair of Edinburgh,
and began to prepare for the elaboration of the vast
mass of scientific material collected in the East and else

where, he was cut off in his prime, and his wide and
varied knowledge, to a large extent, died with him.

    It formed part of his plans for this winter to visit

Edinburgh. One of his chief reasons was to take such
steps upon the spot as might be necessary for promoting
his election to the chair of natural history there. Pro
fessor Jameson had been ailing for some time, and had
latterly become too weak to continue his lectures, which
were temporarily read for him by one of his colleagues.
Already several candidates had begun to stir, and the
contest seemed likely to be a keen one. Forbes's good
feeling, however, led him very soon to abandon the idea
of visiting Edinburgh for such a purpose, so long as his
old master lived. He contented himself with the active
co-operation of his friends in the north, who constantly
apprised him of every change of probabilities, and of all
the movements of those who had either professed them
1S46.           EDWARD FORBES.                                         405

selves his rivals, or seemed likely to do so. His great

fear at this time was that the chair would be divided ;

and as there appeared to be no hope that Government

would endow either of the severed portions, his prospects

of a life of congenial work in the north, ran some risk of

being now finally dashed to the ground. " If I leave
ILondon," he said, " it must be for good ; and cannot

leave it for a mere student's income."

       The division of the Edinburgh Chair, which Forbes

contemplated with so much disfavour, was one which

would have greatly marred the usefulness of the chair,

and impeded the progress of natural history. It was

proposed to separate the Museum from the professorship,

and place it under a distinct superintendent. In this

way, a powerful element of discord could hardly have

failed to be introduced into the teaching of natural his

tory, and the freedom, as well as the dignity of the pro

fessor would have been impaired in a most essential

part. That the chair needed a division of another kind,

however, was only too evident. The lectureship em

braced not merely natural history proper, but geology,

palaeontology, and mineralogy, --a range of acquirements

far beyond the compass of most men, and assuredly

much too wide to be treated, with any approach to ful

ness, in the curriculum of a single session. A proposi

                it it it,

                                                                    a
tion to divide  so as to allow the purely natural

history portion to be undertaken by one man, and the

geological part by another, was therefore                              wise and

liberal one, and would have been well for the Univer

sity could the Government of the day have been per

suaded to cany into effect. But to divide the existing
406  MEMOIR OF                               CHAP. XII.

chair, with no pecuniary resources save the class fees,

would have been a truly suicidal policy. Forbes, know

ing the temper of the Government, protested against

the scision, and had fully resolved, if it were carried out,

to relinquish at once and for ever his design to form a
great school in Edinburgh.

     There was another reason for deferring his trip to

Scotland, the death of his grandmother in the Isle of

Man. But he must be allowed to state it in his own

way. To Mr. Thompson he wrote :--" Family affairs

demand my presence in the Isle of Man to-morrow

Iweek, so will go to Liverpool to work a day with
Macandrew, and one with Price, on Saturday next. I

go to see if there be any chance of saving any of my
Ifields, for in the Manx Almanac figure as proprietor of
I Ithree or four estates.
     fear, however, that can't pre

serve even a pig-stye, having no money to pay off mort
Igages. Still, for the sake of my brothers,
                                             must look
Ito matters, for am now head of the family, since my

father, not bearing his reverses, has left his country for

good. All he left me was the parchment pedigree of

my grandfather, so that I am officially installed chief of
all the Manx Forbeses, who, I fear, unless better luck

attends them than has done, will become extinct, and

perhaps could not be so more appropriately than in the

person of a palaeontologist."

     On the 24th November, the Travels in Lycia were

published, in two well-printed octavo volumes. The

joint shares which Lieutenant Spratt and Professor

Forbes had in this work, are sketched by the latter in a

letter to his friend, Captain Graves, to whom the book
1846.  EDWARD FOEBES.  407

was dedicated. " The introduction," he says, " is Spratt's,

combined with an addition of my own, in the shape of

a short history of discovery in Lycia, which I inserted

for the benefit of the public, to show them what had

been done before Fellows' time. - It is gravely told, and

conceals nothing. The first chapter is entirely mine ;
the remainder of the first volume is based on Spratt's ;
indeed, mostly his manuscript slightly altered. The

more important descriptions, and the anecdote parts, I

entirely re-wrote in my own fashion, in order that these
should be quotable parts. In the second volume, the
first chapter consists of my introduction, and notes to
poor Daniell's last letter. The second is by Spratt,
very little altered. The natural history chapters are my
own. The Greek inscription appendix was drawn up

by myself, acting under good advice, and not published

till submitted to competent persons. I drew the coins

under Sharpe's eye."
     The work was received at the time in a manner

highly gratifying to the authors, and it has taken its
place as an authoritative text-book for the geography
and natural history of those regions of Asia Minor which
it describes.

      The dedication of these volumes to Captain Graves,

formed only one of many ways which Forbes took to
express his regard for that able seaman and most excel
lent man. His letters to his old commander are full of

the most affectionate feeling. Each of them tells of
sonic common friend whom he had seen, and to whom

he had given all the last news from the East, or of some
influential circle in which he had mingled, perhaps with
408  MEMOIR OP                               CHAP. XII.

a Lord of the Admiralty in its number, into whose ear
he took good care to say a kind word for the " Beacon "
and its inmates. There had been not a little discussion,

too, in London circles, with  regard to the  doings of  the
" Beacon," when procuring     the Xanthian   maibles,   and

the part which Commander Graves took in that expedi

tion had been much misrepresented. His young natu

ralist, however, proved himself a stanch ally, and stout

combatant in the Captain's cause, doing much to counter

act the sinister reports that had gone abroad ; and
now, in the Lycian volumes, the name of Captain

Graves was placed in the front, followed by a generous
tribute to his services in the cause alike of science and

art, as well as to his unfailing kindness to the authors.

Forbes would not allow the old relation to disappear,

and delighted to regard himself as still one of the
" Beacon's " crew, to whom, when he wrote to Captain

Graves, he used to send his best wishes, sometimes

mentioning five or six by name. Even by the naval
authorities, his connexion with the Eastern survey was

Ilooked upon as not wholly severed. " am still re

garded as your old naturalist," he wrote to Graves,
" and am consulted about all new expeditions."

     The visit to the Isle of Man did not finally settle

family matters there, though, in the end, part of the pro

perty was secured. Forbes returned to London about

the 8th of January (1847), and found a series of bulletins
from his friends in Edinburgh, reporting all the varia
tions in the aspect of affaire.

     Professor Jameson was still ill, but not worse than

he had been, and there seemed little probability either
1847.  EDWARD FORBES.                     409

that he would voluntarily resign his appointment, or that

illness and inability would compel him to do so. On
the 13 th of January, Forbes writes to Mr. Thompson :--
"I send you a fresh note from Balfour, received this
Imorning, which, think, puts the true state of the case
                                          I have no
so far as the Town-Council is concerned.

doubt that my interest is well attended to by B. and

Goodsir. I do not think it advisable to go to Edinburgh

at present. Matters are not ripe enough to run the risk
Iof being out of the way from here.
                                          could not go

without permission, and do not feel so sanguine about

Ithe Edinburgh chair as to risk what have here yet.
I have, however, written to Horner, who has promptly,

and with all his energetic kindness, written to Lord
Minto, the Lord Advocate, and Solici tor-General, and the

Lord Provost, so that my intentions will be well known.

You will see that Fleming cannot act in ignorance of my
If Imovements.
       he comes forward, dread my chance.
IHis claims for a Scotch chair, freely admit to be before
mine, though I maintain he is too old now for a pro

fessorship. My hope lies in his honesty, for after resign

ing a University chair for the Free Church, it would be

a memorable instance of ' ratting ' if he quitted the Free
IChurch for a University chair.
                                 have said nothing yet

to De la Beche, lest he should meddle either way in the

matter. He will be rather surprised at my wishing to

leave London. My doing so may do good to others, for
it will call attention to the state of scientific appoint

ments in the Metropolis. Even supposing things at their

best here, the utmost I could look for would be a salary

of £500, for which my liberty, time, and comfort must
410  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

be entirely surrendered, and all prospect of working out
Imy researches put an end to. Such, however,
                                              fear,
Imust be my fate, if I cannot get out of it. The more
Isee, the more am convinced that no man should take

up science as his profession unless he has some indepen

dence to fall back upon. Had I £200 a year of my own,

the King's College chair, with such an income in addition,

would be pleasant enough. But such cannot be. How

Iever, hope before summer that my course, one way or
Iother, will be settled, for cannot work with comfort to
myself or with justice to my task, till I am more settled
in mind and body than I now am."

     Ten days later, he writes again of the exertions of

Ihis friends, and adds, --" For my own part am anything

but sanguine, but, of course, will make a struggle for it.

I wish it were settled either one way or other, for with
the consciousness that I can do nothing effectual in my

present position, and the doubt of ever getting a better,

I feel and fear a tendency to grow indifferent to science."

     On February 4th, he wrote to Captain Graves :--

     " I go to Ireland on Survey duty next week, and hope

to see your brother and Thompson ; Patterson, perhaps,

also. Things are in a sad way there ; people dying on

all sides, of starvation. After having seen such a country

as Asia Minor in great part uncultivated, yet capable of
growing corn for half the world, it is terrible to think

of death by starvation when there are such means

neglected of preventing it.

    I" am hard at work ; perhaps too much so still. But

there is a prospect of Jameson resigning the Edinburgh

chair this summer, Iand am, consequently, very sharp on
1847.                 EDWARD FORBES.           411

the look-out. If 1 get  it,  it isnot impossible some autumu
                           it

day may find me at your side in the Archipelago as,
                                               '
                                                        ;
once in that chair, the working-out in full, and in famous

form, of the natural history researches in the Beacon'

will become my chief task, and will then have plenty
                                    I

of time for it. As  it  iIs,      get no rest, but am stoned

to death by fossils. My health, however,  is,  though not

all right, much better than was last winter."

     All the well-laid schemes of the candidates were in

a  few weeks frustrated, for the veteran naturalist at

Edinburgh neither died nor resigned, but rallied from
his illness, and kept his professorship for seven years

after.

     While these and other letters on the same subject
were passing to and fro, an event occurred in London
of some interest in its relation to Edward Forbes, and

of considerable importance in the history of the Geo
logical Survey. The members of the Survey met
together in the Imperial Hotel, Covent Garden, on the
25 th of January, and there entertained their chief, Sir

Henry de Beche, at dinner. Professor Ramsay took
        la
the chair, and the company consisted of the staff of theit

Survey and Museum, along with one or two men of
science who had been conjoined with them in part of

their work. The evening passed very pleasantly away
in joke and song and humorous speech. Such social
interchange of thought and feeling served to bind the

stafF firmer together, and unite them more closely to

their chief, and      was then resolved that every year

thereafter the Survey should hold its anniversary dinner,

with Sir Henry as perpetual chairman. Forbes and
412  MEMOIR OF                                     CHAP. XII.

others used to write serio-comic scientific songs for the

occasion, and these were inscribed in the album of
" The Royal Hammerers." The pages of this volume

are adorned with sketches by Sir Henry himself ; Forbes

wrote out some of his songs in
     a                          with borders of funny
          a
elves and gnomes, and creatures that never existed saveit,
in his own fertile imagination. These dinners are still
                     it
part of the established institutions of the Survey, -- and

long may they continue so.

    A few days after this dinner (viz., on February 3d),

another incident occurred to show how casually our

clubs and societies are sometimes formed. At meeting
                                          of

                                                a
of the Geological Society discussion ensued upon   a
paper by Mr. Prestwich on the Tertiaries the London
and Hampshire Basins. Forbes, in the course of his

speech, remarked with regret how much information

on this subject lay scattered in different books and

periodicals. Mr. Bowerbank followed, and, on the spur

of the moment, suggested the establishment of Tertiary
                                          a

Publishing Society. The idea immediately found favour,

and afterwards, at tea down stairs, was expanded into

a  proposition to found society for publishing plates

of fossils, not from the Tertiary deposits only, but from
all the British formations. This was the origin of the

Palaeontographical Society.               of the Survey
     Early in March the Palaeontologist   He had much

began his tour of inspection in Ireland.

to sec there, not only for clearing up obscure points in

the geology of that country, but as material to aid in
the explanation of part of Wales. After series of
                                          a

excursions he returned to Dublin, and wrote to Pro
1847.                  KDWARD FORBES.               413

feasor Ranisay :-- "l^th March. -- I returned last night

from my provincial tour. My work here so far has
been as follows --: 1st, Unpacking and examining the

Icollections made since was here before ; this is still in

progress : 2c?, Going north at the head of a great army
of fossil fish to Lord Enniskillen's, in order to compare

Iand name them for the Report am drawing up on the
IHook section fossils. This did successfully, and could

not have done it without the aid of Lord E.'s collection,

which is magnificent and in exquisite order. Then at

IFlorence Court, went to seek out the localities for the

encrinite heads, which come over to England continually
without anybody knowing how they are found. This

I did. Also to examine the sections through the car

boniferous series there, which are very complete, and to

work out pentremites, in order to understand better our
Isphceronites ; all which was satisfactorily done.
                                                    then

went to Armagh, and met Oldham there by appointment,

to go over the fish quarries, and observe their relation

to the Hook. Thence northwards to the Silurian district

of Pomeroy, to bottle up knowledge for our Welsh re

ports; satisfactory also. Yesterday we got back. All

this was out of the area at present under survey ; but

it is in vain to write and print on districts till the

outlying places which afford keys to geological secrets

be looked to. Hence I hope Sir Henry will consider

my tour justifiable."

                                 " 51, St. Stephen's Greek, Dorlin, ist April 1847.

     " Dear Wilson, --Your very welcome letter and

poem (which I admire much, but will write fuller
414  MEMOIR OF          CHAP. XII.

comments on very soon) had to travel some way before
they found me, for 1 have been three weeks in Ireland,

and most of the time in the interior, on geological duty.

The sight of your handwriting made me ashamed of my

neglect in not writing to you for so long, as I ought to

have done ; but now putting off writing from want of
leisure, at another time from want of spirits, and at a

third from hopes of seeing you in person, and having

the delight of conversing, have successively prevented

me .answering the letters both of you and of other very

dear friends.

    " My health is much better than it was, and could I

have rest and time to think and read (and write also),

I am sure it would come quite round again. The vexa

tion of incessantly being obliged to write imperfect
If Iwork annoys and frets me.
           Jameson retires, shall

make a desperate effort to get amongst you again, as in
Ithat lies almost the only hope have of working out the
Iheap of material have accumulated, and the philan
I Ithropic views which
     hope               may never abandon.

Next screed shall be anent poetry, and soon. Ever, dear

Wilson, your affectionate friend and frater,
                                             " Edward Forbes."

    I" am in a land of misery and tears at present, hence

the dull tone of this short note."

    A " screed anent poetry" was, with Forbes, a favourite

form of correspondence. As, perhaps, the most interest

ing specimen he has left, the following letter to Mr.

Patterson may be appropriately quoted here :--
    "Dear Patterson,-- Anent your notion about the
1847.  EDWARD FORBES.  415

Iconnexion of natural history and poetry, here put down

a few sentences. Morren of Liege has lately published

Ia volume of poems which have not as yet seen, but I

am told that in the preface to the book he maintains

the identity of the naturalist and the poet, and of
their respective pursuits. You should see and get hold

of this.
      " Now, here is my theory of the matter, jotted down

rapidly and without sufficient forethought. Most natu

ralists, if not all, may be arranged under the following
classes :--

     " A. --Such as perceive analogies more vividly than

they do affinities.

     " B.--Such as perceive affinities and can define them,

but are weak in their perception of analogies.
        " Var. o. -- Have scarcely any just perception of

       analogy.

        " Var. b. -- When analogies are pointed out to them,
    perceive them readily if they be true.
    " C. --Such as remark differences without the power

of recognising whether they depend on the absence of

analogy or affinity.

     " D. -- Such as having a vivid sympathy with the
beauty of natural objects, seek in the details or history of
those objects the gratification of that sympathy.

    " E. --Such as combine an apparently intuitive (really

logical) perception of analogy with the power of accurate

recognition of affinity, and both with the intuitive per
ception of ideal form, = beauty. The greatest leading
minds belong to this class. There is a passage of this

class into B,--as there is also of A into D.
416  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

                     " EXAMPLES IN ILLUSTRATION.

    " A.--Oken, Swainson, and amongst literary men, Sir

Thomas Browne.

     " B. -- Ray ? Yarrell, Jussieu, Richardson, Hooker,

Fleming.
     " C.-- Gray, Klein, Gmelin.

     "D. -- Waterton, Hugh Miller, Johnston? and among

poets, James Montgomery.

     " E.-- Aristotle, Linnaeus, Robert Brown, Goethe.

    " Passage of B into E. --Cuvier, Owen, J. Goodsir,

Gaudichaud ; Macleay leaning to A.

    " Now, the minds of class E are essentially poetic, or

rather in the highest degree aesthetic.

    " Those of A are not necessarily poetic or aesthetic,

but are sometimes so.

     " Those of D are poetic always, but not necessarily

aesthetic.

     " Those of B are rarely ever poetic, sometimes mode

rately aesthetic.
      " Those of C are neither poetic nor aesthetic.

     " Those belonging to the transition between B and E

are usually highly aesthetic, though not poetic.
      " The power of throwing the thoughts into verse

with the naturalist, an accident, to whichever class he

may belong.

    " Such my solution of the problem --in trying to

unriddle which have passed the last two hours, till now
   hear the clock strike one and 'tis bed-time. Being

this evening (in consequence of slight degree of fever-
ishness which warns me to resort to pills and powders
I

                   is

                I

                                                                               !

                                                                  a
                                                                                                                 is,
1847.        EDWARD FORBES.                      417

ere next week begins) in a dreamy state, the preceding

two semi-metaphysical pages may be, I fear are, incom
prehensible. So, if you can't make them out, you may

put them in the fire."

      On the same day on which he sent the last quoted
letter to Dr. Wilson, he wrote to Mr. Thompson that he

had been urged to give a lecture at the Royal Institution

Iduring the spring. " have written that my subject
Ishall be ' The North Atlantic' In this case will make

the lecture half on Loven's researches confirmatory of

mine, and half upon the economic application of my

work, and the true way of inquiring into the fisheries.
This will give me an opportunity of trying to do Ball
that justice which he will not do himself."

       The lectures at King's College were fixed to begin

this year, on the 28 th of April, and Forbes returned to

prepare for them. He had no sooner arrived in London,

however, than he was ordered off to Devonshire, where

he vibrated for a week and a day between Axmouth and
Lyme. Yet it was a week well spent, as he obtained,

for the first time, a true notion of the Lias formation.

On getting back to London, he wrote to Professor Kam-
say :--

    I I" regret quite as much as yourself that you and

did not meet at Lyme. Sir Henry recollected that it

Iwould have been better so, too late ; in fact left with

him at a moment's notice, and we had done our work

Ithere almost as soon as we had breathing time.  hur

ried away back on account of my college lectures which

Inow commence ; had it not been for them would have

joined yon.
418               MEMOIR OF         CHAP. XII.

     " My visit to Lyme gave me a thoroughly clear idea
Iof the Lias, and the succession of its fossils, which
              I now can picture to myself all the
much wanted.

I Ievents of its formation. At the base of it saw the so-

called White Lias, which, so far as have seen, seems to

me to be essentially different from the lias, and possibly

the terminating strata of the triassic series. I broached
Ia notion to Sir Henry, from what saw, that the red

marls were formed in a great salt inland sea (a sort of
Aralo-Caspian), during the last state of which the white

lias was formed ; that the bed was then either elevated

and converted into land, or depressed and turned into a

part of the ocean, when the liassic fauna came in. This

notion is not merely hypothetical ; the fossils of the

white lias (very few in species) suggested the idea ; they

are curiously representative of the existing Caspian

fauna. Such a state of things would account for the

general and hitherto almost unaccountable unfossiliferous

character of the Trias in our area, and for the extinction

of the last traces of palaeozoic fauna. Rest assured there

is something in this spec, like a clue, where a clue is

wanting. Much research, however, would be necessary
Ito work it out.
                  wish much that we could make a tour

of the coast sections of the south of England together.
It would be most instructive to both of us, and beneficial
Ifto the Survey.
                  the governor went with us, so much

the better, as he knows the line."

     On May 14th, he lectured to the Royal Institution
" On the Natural History features of the North Atlantic."
In this lecture he pointed out the zoological regions into
which that part of the ocean is divisible, and the geo
1S47.  EDWARD FORBES.  419

logical changes to which the present disposition of such
provinces is due. Ho referred also to the simultaneous
and independent observations of Professor Loven of

Stockholm, who had arrived at similar conclusions as to

the distribution of marine animals, and the nature of

those geological revolutions by which the different species

had gradually come to occupy their present areas. The
latter part of the lecture was employed in showing some
of the economical bearings of the subject. Forbes dwelt
especially on the conduct of deep-sea fisheries, and
showed that the results of scientific research had never,

in this country, entered into any scheme for the ex
tension and improvement of that part of our national

industry.
     He refers to this lecture in a letter to Professor

Ramsay: --"On Friday night I lectured at the Royal

Institution. The subject was the bearing of submarine

researches and distribution matters on the fishery ques

tion. I pitched into Government mismanagement pretty

strong, and made a fair case of it. It seems to me that

at a time when half the country is starving, we are

utterly neglecting, or grossly mismanaging great sources
Iof wealth and food.
                      have lately rummaged through

every document, official and non-official, that can be laid

hold of on this matter, and more wonderful blindness on

the part of statesmen, etc., could not have been dis

covered. It happened that the night before my lecture
the question rose accidentally in the House, and Mini

sters and members displayed as much ignorance of the

case as ever. Were I a rich man, I would make the

subject a hobby, for the good of the country, and for the
420  MEMOIR OF                          CHAP. XII.

better proving that the true interests of government are

those linked with and inseparable from science.
     " Sir Henry brought Phillips of the Woods with him,

Iand had a fair sprinkling of political people present,

who have urged me to press the matter."
     Before the close of the botanical lectures at the

College, the British Association  met at Oxford, and
Forbes went down to attend it.
                                   At this meeting his
papers were :--

     1. On the families of British LameUibranchiate mol-

lusca ;--the object of this communication being to explain

the classification which he intended to adopt, in conjunc
tion with Mr. Hanley, in the preparation of their work
on the British mollusca.

     2. Notice of Dredging Researches in progress.
     The Bed Lions met as usual, and mustered strong

this year. On the 24th (the first day of the sectional
meetings), Forbes occupied the chair, and, on the 26th,
twenty-four of them went out to see Blenheim, twenty

stowing themselves into the inside and on the summit
of a stage-coach, while the remainder, who could not
find room, kept up with the main body in a phaeton.

     One of the most memorable features of this meeting,
however, was the discussion in the Natural History

Section on the nature and relations of the extinct Dodo.

Forbes, though he did not take part in  had, neverit,
                                          a

                                                               a
theless, a lively interest in the controversy, and, some
weeks afterwards, he sent to the Literary Gazette

long ornithological romance containing  humorous

account of the debate. The subjoined verses, which
1817.                 EDWARD FORBES.                                                  421

have been quoted by Dr. Bennett, are the best in the
song :--

                          SONG OF THE DODO.i                                     is,

          Do-do I although we can't see him,
          His picture is hung in the British Museum :
          For the creature itself, we may judge what a loss it
          When its claws and its biil are such great curiosities.

                                Do-do! Do-do!
                 Ornithologists nil have been puzzled by you.

          Do-do Monsieur de Blainville,
          !!! !
          Who hits very hard all the nails on his anvil,

          Maintains that the bird was a vulture rapacious,

          And neither wader, nor else gallinaceous
                 aa   A do doI
                                 a
                                               !

                                                                  ;
                               do-do,

          And not cock-a-doodle-doo

          Do-do John Edward Gray, 6ir,
          Doubted what Mr. de Blaiuvillo did say, sir,
          And held that the bird was vile imposition,
          And that the old Dutchman had seen but vision --

                           A do-do a regular do

                 And didn't believe one word was true.
                               ;
                                         a

                                                         !
                                                                   a

          Do-do alas for our wisdom
                               a
          Strickland has come to the judgment and his doom,!
                                                ;
                                         aa              a
          From a hole in the head, and bone with                      ridge on,
          Is that our rara avit was only pigeon
                                                ;

                        Our do-do, only a doo,

          A regular doo, like turtle-doo.

          Do-do alas there are left us!
          No more remains of the Didus inej>tus,
       '  And so, in the progress of science, all prodigies
          Must die, as the palm-trees will some day at Loddige's,

                                And, like onr wonderful do-do,
                 Turn out not worth the hullabaloo.

     By the beginning of July, Forbes was back again toi

London. On the evening of the 3d, the Metropolitana
Red Lions gave dinner to the Prince of Canino, and
other distinguished foreigners, Dutch, Danish, and
Russian, who had been at the Association meeting.
Cook Taylor occupied the chair, with Forbes as vice,

                                      He pronounced this word as doo-doo.
422          MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

and the evening rolled merrily away. The northern
savans went into the fun with great heartiness, but the
nephew of the First Napoleon appeared not quite to

understand the uproarious mirth of the men whom only

a few days before he had seen engaged in such grave

and earnest debate in the scientific assembly at Oxford.

     The King's College lectures ended on the 17th July,

and Forbes immediately left London for a few days.
Before starting he wrote to Belfast :--" My lectures
Iended yesterday, and I mean to take a run out of town
to-morrow for a week, as a breathing excursion.  go

first to Lady Hastings, and then by Thursday or Friday

to James, to get a day's dredging, and to look to two

or three common species of molluscs of whose animals

I Iam not quite sure. Since you left town have got

my British shells and the bivalves of my iEgean col

lection stuck on tablets and put in consultable order.
This will be a great step towards giving away duplicates

in future."

     He was now preparing for the early publication of

his great work, for which he had been amassing material

since his boyhood --the History of British Mollusca --

the first pages of which were issued at the commence
ment of the following year. His summer excursions,

when not purely geological in the service of the Survey,
had now a constant reference to the elaboration of that

work. Sometimes they were given to dredging, some
times to the comparison of the shells in various cabinets

throughout the country, and sometimes to conference
with other labourers in the same field of science. In

such an undertaking his well-known geniality of nature,
1847.                   KDVVARD FORBES.  423

and the universal friendship which it had won for him,

independently of his acknowledged permanent merits as

a naturalist, contributed not a little to his progress.
There was little jealousy excited by the announcement

that Edward Forbes was about to prepare a compre

hensive history of the Mollusca of the British Seas. On

the contrary, he met with the most cordial assistance.

It was acknowledged that by none could the task have

been more fitly undertaken, and thus cabinets that

would have been closed against another were at once

thrown open to him. For four years the preparation
of this work occupied a large portion of his time ; it

brought him into still closer connexion with the natu

ralists and collectors in all parts of the kingdom, thus

strengthening former friendships, and weaving the ties

of not a few new ones.

     On the 28th July, after his return to London, he

wrote to Mr. Ramsay :-- " I spent a few days very de

lightfully and very usefully with Lady Hastings, who is

one of the most excellent (and without exception the

Icleverest) woman ever met. Her husband too, Captain

Henry, is an exceeding nice person. He is an amateur
chemist, she a ' fossilist,' and knows her work, and both

are enthusiasts in music and drawing ; both playing and

singing, and painting admirably. There is not the

slightest grain of nonsense or affectation in either, so you

may guess my pleasure in becoming intimate with such
trumps, even though they be-- only in name -- aristo

crats. Lady Hastings has the finest collection of Spec-
Iton clay fossils  Ihave ever met with.
                                         have made a

full abstract of them for the use of our establishment, a
424               MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

synopsis in fact of many more species (twice as many)

as in Phillip's work. This will come in for Yorkshire. I

have carried away a new oolitic star-fish too, most con

veniently for my report on that subject.
     " Now about Welsh movements. By the end of the

Inext week hope to clear off much work in hand here,

and then, if you so agree, to start for Wales. My wish is

to go via Bristol to look to the museum and collections

there, for sundry things we require before printing some
                  Thence I would take packet for
matters on hand.

Swansea, where 1 must, if possible, for my own use, see

IJeffrey's collection. And from thence would proceed

any way you may direct, and meet you at any point you

may appoint."

     On the 15 th of August he reached Dolancothy in

South Wales, and met there Professor Bamsay, who hav

ing sprained his foot, had been for some weeks laid aside

from field-work. They remained for a fortnight in the

pleasant family-circle of Dolancothy. During the day

                  they rode out with the ladies in

                  short excursions round the neigh

                  bourhood, or the two men of science

                  rambled out together, l\Jr. Bamsay

                  on his pony, and Forbes walking

                  by his side, or Forbes set out him

                  self to sketch, or to learn the art

                  of pike-fishing, or to join in a game
                  of quoits. The evenings passed

                  away in pleasant chat, Forbes as

                  usual busy with his pencil, making

portraits of the family, or drawing the quaint grotesque
18i7. EDWARD FORBES.  425

figures which seemed ever lurking in some corner of his
brain, ready to jump forth whenever, in an odd moment,
a pencil and a piece of paper lay before him.

     By the 30 th of the month, Mr. Ramsay found him
self sufficiently recovered to renew his field duties, so he
and Forbes started off on a tour of inspection. They first
went to Llangaddoc to see the Sawdde section, where
every subdivision of the palaeozoic rocks is seen, from

the Lower Silurian up to the Devonian, and thence on
the same day they reached Llandovery. For eight weeks
they continued to flit from place to place, comparing
rock section with rock section, and thus by a careful
examination of the fossils in the field, bringing the Silu
rian strata in different parts of Wales into closer harmony
with each other. From Llandovery they went to Builth,

thence to Pen-y-bont, over the hills by Bedd-ugre, and

down into the valley of the Ithan ; away over to King

ton to see the limestones and trap-rocks of Nash Scar,

and then by Old Radnor Hill and Presteign to Ludlow.

Thence they went north to Church Stretton, and re

mained there for a fortnight, making many excursions to
neighbouring localities : Wenlock Edge with its rich fos-
siliferous limestone, the Cambrian ridge of the Longmynd

with its encircling conglomerates, Caer Caradoc, Lee

Botwood, Winstanstow, and All Stretton, where lived a

pleasant family under whose roof the evenings were

sometimes passed.

      On the 1st of October they reached Bishop's Castle,

and remained there till the 9 th, geologizing as usual when

the weather permitted. The snug little inn at Cherbury
was their next resting-place, from which they made
42C  MEMOIR OP  CHAT. XII.

several excursions, one in particular to Montgomery,
where, in walking through the churchyard, the sexton
pointed out the grave of a murderer whom he had
buried with his own hands twenty-six years before. The
prisoner, it appeared, had protested his innocence, and
declared that the grass would never grow over his grave,
a prophecy, however, which had not come true. The sun
shone out brightly as he was led to execution, but no
sooner had he set foot on the scaffold, than " it thundered

and lightened like mad a sure proof in the eyes of the
sexton, that the man had been righteously condemned.

     From Cherbury they started on the 18th for Welsh
pool, and spent the following day in a long ramble among
the igneous rocks of the Breidden Hills, then to Meifod
on the banks of the Vyrnwy, in a quiet Welsh valley,
down which they drove to Oswestry. A few excursions
in this neighbourhood completed the tour. On the
morning of the 26th, the two friends parted company,
and Forbes returned by Ruabon to London.

     Of these excursions Mr. Ramsay writes :-- " There
never was a more delightful companion. It was on such
occasions that his inner life best revealed itself. His

knowledge was so varied, his conversation often so bril
liant and instructive. And he would take as well as

give, for no man ever better appreciated the work of his
less gifted coadjutors. Some of the happiest hours of my
life were spent in conversation with him on these excur

sions, and many a grave talk and hearty laugh did we

enjoy together, when, after a hard day's walking and
hammering, we returned for the evening to our wayside

inn. He would write some of his poems then, and hand
1847.  EDWARD FORBES.  427

them to ine for criticism. When in the field he would

sometimes become abstracted, and stopping now and
then, pencil down in verse the ideas as they rose in his
mind. He was also constantly in the habit of making
coloured drawings of remarkable geological localities.
When we were alone together, he used to place me in the

foreground, and abjuring the neutral tints in which I

might be clad, to make up the picture, he would clothe

me in red and blue, and place an imaginary damsel by

Imy side, saying that was the standard ' lovyer' in his

pictures."
     The remainder of this year was spent somewhat

erratically. After leaving his friend in Wales, Forbes
returned to London for a few weeks. During his leisure
hours there, he began the preparation of a new Pakeonto-
logical Map of the British Islands, which he had agreed
to design for Mr. A. K. Johnston's Physical Atlas. The

work was completed during the ensuing spring, and
published in the autumn of the same year.

     In this map, the area occupied by the several geologi

cal formations was laid down from the most recent re

searches. But it differed from all previous geological
maps, in the prominence that was given to the palaeonto-
logical features of the country. The names selected for
insertion on the sheets were for the most part of geological

interest. Besides this, localities remarkably productive in
fossils were marked with distinctive characters to show the
nature of organic remains ; copious lists of fossils were

inserted round the margin ; especial reference was made
to the more remarkable phenomena of the distribution of
life during the glacial period, and the lines of depth traced
428  MEMOIR OF           CHAP. XII.

round the coast to mark as far as possible the several
zones into which Forbes divided the British seas ; lastly,

he added eight large folio pages of explanation, giving at
a glance, in a tabular arrangement, the main palaeonto-
logical features of the British Isles.

     Edward Forbes left town early in December, with
the intention of first visiting the Staffordshire coal-field,
where Mr. Jukes was at that time surveying ; studying
carefully some parts of the collection of Silurian fossils
in Dudley, and then crossing to assist Mr. Oldham in the

museum at Dublin.

    "Dear Ramsay, --You          " Dudley, llfA December 1847.

Ithat am on the tramp.   will see by the above date

                         I left London on Tuesday,

with Bone for Wolverhampton, where we spent Wednes

day with Jukes and Selwyn, examining fossil collections,

and completing cystidean plates. On Thursday I left

Bone to finish his drawings, and came to Dudley with

the luggage by coach, and walked myself with J. and S.
to see some geological points of much interest. A walk

Iover the same line of country would, think, be service

able to you for your lectures as well as survey. The

open coal works are very interesting, and the alterna

tions of rocks among the slags of the great furnaces. . . .

IYesterday, Bone and had a long and most satisfactory

day's work in the Dudley collection, and to-day, by the

afternoon, we shall complete what we have to do, when

Ihe goes to London, and on to do Oldham's job in Dublin,
Iwhere shall be on Monday morning. We have got the

subjects of six new plates of Cystideae here, all of great

beauty and interest. My paper on the fossil star-fishes
18-17.  EDWARD FORBES.              429

is in Sir Henry's hands for the press, and the first part
of the cystidean paper will be sent from Dublin. At

the last Geological Society meeting, we had a most in

teresting paper by Sharpe, on the relation of the Ameri
Ican and English Silurian fossils.
                                    had occasion to pitch

into De Verneuil and the French pretty strongly, in

return for a side slap at me in the last Bulletin, where

there is a long and very interesting paper by De Verneuil

on the same subject with Sharpe's. In that paper he

attacks 1 certains g6ologues ' who hold deep-water views

about the Silurians, and maintains the American Silurians

were all very shallow water beds, his chief argument

being the so-called ripple-marks and fucoids ! The re

sult of Sharpe's work, however, confirms the deep-water

view, and Lyell backs it."

        Christmas found him in Dublin. While there, he

sent a short note of hints to Mr. Eamsay, who had

recently been appointed Professor of Geology at Uni

versity College, and whose first course of lectures was
about to commence. " The leading ideas of both Hutton
and Lyell," he says, " are older than either, and must be

culled from many sources. We find one in Strabo,

another in Henry More, a third in Molyncux, a fourth
in Leibnitz, and so on. In truth, ideas and principles

are independent of men ; the application of them and

their illustration is man's duty and merit. The time

will come when the author of a view shall be set aside,

and the view only taken cognizance of. This will be the

millennium of Science."

        By the middle of January, the Survey engagements

in Dublin were completed, and he returned to reside for
430  MEMOIR OF                          CHAP. XII.

 some months continuously in London. The paper on

 the fossil Star-fishes, though not yet published, was

ready for the press.1 It contained a synopsis of all the

British fossil Asteriache, and a notice of the foreign
species with which its author was at the time acquainted.
The monograph of the Silurian Cystideae followed the
last paper in the Memoirs of the Geological Survey.2
That remarkable order of radiate animals had only been

lately recognised as occurring in Britain. A number of

specimens having been procured from the Silurian rocks
of Wales, Forbes, whose interest in the subject had been
excited by the perusal of Von Buch's memoir, " Ueber
Cystideen," undertook their investigation. His paper

forms, perhaps, his most valuable contribution to the

palaeontology of the older geological formations.

     In addition to these long and elaborate papers, the
palaeontological map of the British Isles, already noticed,
still occupied him at intervals during the remainder of
January, and part of February. His monograph of the
British naked-eyed Medusae, published by the Ray
Society, likewise demanded not a little of his leisure
time this winter. When completed, it formed a quarto

volume, thoroughly characteristic of Edward Forbes, not
only in its careful and succinct descriptions, but espe
cially in the humour that creeps out again and again in
his zoological details, giving an air of liveliness to what
might seem sufficiently dreary reading. For instance,
in referring to the alleged stinging property of an'

   i It forms a memoir of twenty-five      * This paper occupies fifty pages of
pages, entitled, "On the Asterindac     thesecond part of vol. ii. of the Memnirs,
found fossil in Britain."-- Mem. Gent.
Surrey, ir, part ii. p. 457.            p. 483.
JS48. EDWARD FORBES. 431

Oceania when applied to the eyes, he remarks :--" Not

being ambitious of suffering stone-blindness by playing

Itoo closely with even the smallest Gorgon's head, have

never ventured to repeat the experiment, and prefer
keeping my eyes intact, to thrusting medusa! into them.
For such rash experiments, Ben Jonson's song might be

paraphrased, --

                                      ' O tLloesntoyt owuanbtoonsicwk itwhiththosseeeinegy.e' s,"

But besides all these scientific labours, he was busily

engaged, in conjunction with Mr. Hanley, in the pre

Iparation of the numbers of the British Mollusca. "

am in the midst of work," he writes to Mr. Thompson,
" having many things on hand, Survey memoirs espe
cially ; the Mollusca are but by-play. The medusae are

all on the stone, and colouring. My map of Great
Britain for Johnston is out of hand, but not yet pub

lished. Our Piccadilly building 1 is rising fast, and

Government must come to some conclusions about the
Iposts there this summer, but
                                 fear the state of the

budget will not permit much to be done. In ten days,

I shall have to make a hurried visit to the Isle of Man.

My poor brother there must have his foot amputated.

Fortunately one of my aunts has been most kind to

him, and will not allow it to be done except in her

house, and under her care. As nursing is half the
I Ibattle, this may save him.
wish had a home for

him, and must try to make one."

      On the 25 th February, he lectured to the Royal
Institution " On the Question in Natural History : Have

i The present Museum of Economic neology, one end of which frontu to Piccadilly.
432  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

Genera, like Species, Centres of Distribution V His

object was to show that genera are not universally
diffused over the world, but are gathered into certain
geographical provinces, in which there is a point where
the genera attain their maximum development, and
whence they gradually diminish as we trace them out
wards. The same fact was also pointed out as charac
terizing the appearance of genera in the geological past.
They did not come in at once in their full development,
but slowly, and by a small number of species, and then,

increasing by degrees, reached their maximum, after
which they gradually waned until their final extinction.
He regarded it as highly probable that the point in

geographical space where genera attain their greatest
development, represents the point of origin from which
the different members of the genus dispersed them

selves.

     The spring of 1848 is memorable for the wi de-spread
shaking of the nations that followed the revolution by
which Louis Philippe lost his throne. A vague dis
quietude passed like a contagion through all classes
in our own country. The day of the Chartist meeting

on Kennington Common was anticipated as likely to
witness a revolutionary outbreak, and measures were

secretly taken by the Government to guard the Bank
and other public buildings, and quell the insurrection
by force. When such movements were going on in
London, it would perhaps have been strange had no
show of alarm been visible within the precincts of
Craig's Court. Without pausing to consider whether a
collection of stones would be likely to prove attractive
1818.  EDWARD FORBES.  433

to a revolutionary mob, it was decided that the Museum
had a good chance of being ransacked, and to guard
against such a catastrophe, the Government hammerers
were desired to arm themselves and defend their

camp.

     Edward Forbes had at first treated the whole matter
as a joke, ridiculed the idea of a rising of the people,
and laughed heartily at the notion of an attack on the
collections at Craig's Court. His merry taunts on the
preparation to resist the civil rebellion, procured him no
good-will at head-quarters, but at the last he relented so
far as to enrol himself with the rest as a special constable,
and shouldered his baton in defence of his cystideans
and trilobites.

     On the morning of the day that was to witness the
outbreak, the members of the Survey and of the Museum
assembled within the building, which was then closed.
There was a back-window of the Museum that looked
into Scotland Yard, and here for a while Sir Henry
was observed to be very busy pulling in the cutlasses
that were handed up by the police authorities outside.

Everything was now ready for a siege. The morning
however passed away, and still the mob came not ; the
forenoon crept on, and all outside remained quiet. By
degrees the besieged, finding no enemy, stole away from
their general to see what was the real state of matters.
They returned in the afternoon to report, and found
that the Director had improvised an excellent dinner for
the whole staff in his own room. This ended, they
adjourned to the laboratory upstairs, and concluded this

                                           2E
434  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XII.

warlike day by smoking an unlimited number of pipes

of peace.
     The month of April was spent partly at Efford with

Lady Hastings, and partly in a geological tour with the
surveyors in Hampshire and Dorsetshire. On the 19th,
Forbes met Professor Ramsay and Mr. Trimmer at
Lymington, whence they crossed at once to the Isle of

Wight, spending the night there, and after an excursion
to Alum Bay, returning to Lymington next day. The

ramble westward was a pleasant one. Pedestrian tourists
were rarities in Hampshire, more especially geologists,
with heavy coats, pockets stuffed with specimens, and
boots enveloped in mud. The landlord at Milford
received the naturalists with not a little suspicion, and

seemed evidently at a loss to reconcile their easy gen

tlemanly manner with the travel-stained state of their
attire. Next morning, indeed, he could hardly refrain
his surprise, when he found his bill not only paid, but
paid well. Crossing the ferry they were charmed with

the sight of Christ-church, a grand old pile, seen across a

marshy moor, and an arm of the sea, with low hills be
yond. Forbes sketched it on the spot. Then they
 worked their way, hammer in hand, along the cliffs to

 Bournemouth, thence to Poole Harbour, and so, by boat,
 to Studland, along cliffs of great geological interest*
 until they reached Swanage in time for tea.

      Next day was spent among the cliffs of Swanage, a
 wonderful piece of coast-scenery -- dark rocks worn into

 caves, with the sea-foam mantling around their base, a
 gloomy sky overhead, and white gulls wheeling across it.
IMS. EDWARD FORBES. 435

Striking inland, they passed Corfe Castle, a noble ruin
standing on a chalk hill at the farther side of a dark
moor ; then by Wareham to Dorchester and Weymouth.
Three or four days were passed in this neighbourhood,
one of them among the wondrous ruin of rocks that
skirts the shore of the Isle of Portland, another along
the shingle heaps of the Chesil Bank. By the 30 th of
the month, the necessary geological inspection had been
completed, and the party broke up, Professor Ramsay
remaining in Dorsetshire, and Forbes returning in the
evening to London, where he arrived in time for the
opening of the botanical lectures at King's College,
which this year began on the 2d of May.

      These lectures had long ceased to cost him trouble
in their preparation. He had by yearly practice aug
mented his natural ease and grace of lecturing, and thus
men whose tastes had but little of a scientific cast, often

found their way to his class-room, attracted by the
charm which he threw over his elucidation of vegetable
structure. Men of science, too, loved to listen to him

now and then ; his markedly suggestive style of treat
ment serving as a stimulus to thought, and often casting
a new light on questions with which they were already
familiar. He used to tell of at least one specimen of

another type of listeners. "At the commencement of

one of his courses, he observed a gentleman assiduously
writing notes day after day. He seized an opportunity
of remarking to this individual that he seemed to be
taking a great amount of trouble. Whereupon it was
frankly explained to him that the supposed student had
436  MEMOIR OF EDWARD FORBES.        CHAP. XII.

been recently appointed lecturer on botany in one of
the London Medical Schools, and knowing very little of
the subject, found it convenient to deliver to his own
students in the afternoon the lecture he heard Forbes

give in the morning."i

     i Dr. Bennett's Memoir, p. 18.
                CHAPTER XIII.

THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY CONTINUED -- HIS MARRIAGE.

That Edward Forbes had, from his boyhood, an

enthusiastic love for the gentler sex needs not to be told.
The nymphs that float down the pages of his early note
books, amid scattered scraps of lectures and gaunt skulls
and skeletons ; the supplicating maidens of his place-
books, seized by ruthless monsters, but delivered in the
very instant of time by a tall, slim youth, evidently

meant for the limner himself ; the female faces, pensive
with braided locks, or laughing among curls, that come
up again and again in the memoranda of his London
life, and in the jottings of his country rambles ; above

all, the endless amatory songs and anacreontics, and
unfinished snatches of verse that form so large a propor
tion of his fragmentary papers,1 show clearly enough

   i One of these may bo quoted here :--         Vainly we the gods importune,
                                                 Poets poor for better fortune ;
Heart ! be still, now idly beating,              So that ever blest and blessing,
Tell the tale of thy defeating,                  Still caressed, and still caressing :
'Tis not scorn that hath destroyed thee,
'Tis not beauty that hath cloyed thee :                                       All our themes

                                 'Tis thy fate,        Would no more bo idlo dreams.
      Ever loving when too lato I

Longing still for that bespoken,                 Ye who at the welkin gazing,                    ...
Hoping still for pledges broken,                 Of new planets tell amazing :
Wishing still where fate opposes,                Can ye not some world discover,
Gathering thorns when grasping roses :           Where shall rest the hapless lover,

                                 'Tis thy woe,                                    And his love,

      Heaven ordRins it must be so.                      Crushed below, be blest above.
438  MEMOIR OF  C1IAV. XIII.

what, amid all changes, remained the under- current of his
thoughts. Despite the dreamy countenances of many of
his nymphs, and the high-flown style of much of, at
least, his earlier poetry, the feeling was no mere senti
mentality. The yearnings and longings of what he calls
" the transition or caterpillar state" of bachelorhood, were
graphically enough described from his own experience in
the pages of the Literary Gazette. " What," he asks,

" is the peculiarity of bachelorhood ? It is the yearning

after love returned, the craving for marriage, the longing
for woman's companionship. Surround a bachelor with
every possible comfort ; give him the roomiest of bed
chambers, the most refreshing of couches, the largest of
sponging baths ; cover his breakfast-table with the whitest
of table-cloths ; make his tea with the hottest of boiling
 water, envelop his body in the most comfortable of
 dressing-gowns, and his feet in the easiest of slippers ;
 feed him among the luxuries and comforts of the snuggest
 of clubs, do all these things and more for him and he will
 nevertheless be unhappy. He mopes and ponders and
 dreams about love and marriage. His imagination calls

up shadow-wives, and he fancies himself a Benedict. ln

 his dream he sees a fond and charming lady beside his
 solitary hearth, and prattling little ones climbing up his
 knees. He wakes to grow disgusted with his loneliness,
 and, despairing, vents his spleen in abuse of the very
 condition for which, waking and sleeping, he longs and

 pines."1

       That one so susceptible of the gentler emotions, and
 so great a favourite in society, should have been in his

                                               i Literary Paptrs, p. 220.
IMS. EDWARD FORBES. 439

thirty-third year still unmarried, is a strong testimony
to his prudence and judgment. He alleged, indeed, at

that time, that all his life he had never been fairly in

love, and that the furthest stage he had yet reached was
hearty but qualified esteem. An impartial critic, how
ever, would be apt to look on some of his pencillings as

dictated by a warmer sentiment, and certainly much of

Ins poetry would be received as good evidence against
him. But be that as it may, he had been long anxious
to many. Two obstacles had hitherto lain in his way ;

in the first place he declared he had never met a woman

whom he could esteem so thoroughly as to marry her ;

and in the second place, even if he had discovered the

needed damsel, he had never enjoyed income enough to
Ifsupport her.
                there ever arose in the heart of Edward

Forbes a feeling akin to envy, it was at the sight of his

comrades entering one by one into the married ranks.
He watched his brethren of the old " oineromathic band"

as each in turn formed a still closer alliance than that

which they symbolized in their red ribbon and silver
triangle. Among the " Red Lions," the frequency of

the espousals filled him with concern. It is amusing to

note how he chronicles these events in his letters, and

how lugubriously he turns from a contemplation of

the happiness of his friends to ponder the destiny of
his solitary self. One marriage had been spoken of

but was deferred, then spoken of again, and finally

celebrated, and in moralizing on the subject, Forbes

concludes with the hope, that as the lucky fellow had

got fairly away at last, Providence would now take him
self in tow.
440  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XIII.

      The wish obtained its fulfilment much sooner than

his most sanguine expectations had conjectured.
     When visiting at a friend's house in Surrey, he met

Miss Ashworth, daughter of the late General Sir C. Ash-

worth. It was a short visit, but long enough to make

him a lover; at least, to bring him nearer to that condition

than he would allow he had ever been before. " Had I
Itime," he wrote, " would fall in love ; the charms being

good sense, unselfishness, amiability, and accomplish
ments of rare quality." He met her again in London,
each time with increasing regard. He seemed at last to
have found the helpmate of whom, through these long
years of toil, he had been dreaming. There appeared,
too, to be a reciprocal attachment ; and, though in alter
nate hope and fear, all went well. He began to build
castles of delight, and fondly anticipated finding in a
house of his own that rest and solace for which he longed.

But, so far as his experience went, to form a wish had
very generally the effect of defeating its fulfilment.

Besides, if at last the philosopher had been caught, it

was hardly to be expected that in his case the course of

true love should have a special exemption from its pro
verbial roughness. And so it happened, that whilst he

was dreaming and scheming, his friend had unexpectedly
been called to accompany some of her relatives to

Canada. The intelligence fell like a thunderbolt among
his day-dreams. He must needs see her, however, before
the departure, and plead, though with little chance of

success, that she should remain in this country. It was

vain to hope that the family arrangements by which she

was tied could possibly be changed, and he returned
IMS. EDWARD FORBES. 441

in despair. Yet he felt sure that the regret was not on
his side alone, and in his farewell visit this seemed so

evident that, after allowing a day or two to elapse, and
finding, as he said, that his fit continued, he determined

to offer marriage. Describing the events to a friend at

Ithe time, he wrote, -- " This morning plucked up courage
I Ito write my letter, telling her plainly how felt, how
Iam situated, that have no resources save head and pen,

was as poor as proud, and offered her myself with all
these drawbacks, she would have me." He received an

answer the same evening, and immediately wrote --
    " Dear Ramsay, -- It now near twelve o'clock on
                   is

                                  I

                                                 is if,
                                                                                  :
Monday night [17th July], and though there no chance
of this letter going till to-morrow night, cannot resist
the temptation of writing the most important news in my

existence to you, and first to you.
"I have won wife
                   [Here follows the sketch
a
                           a

                                                          !
                                                             !

                                            !"
                                                         a

                                              I
of maiden offering her hand to spectral lover, who,

standing on one leg and flourishing the other in mid-air,
waves his hat triumphantly aloft.] " To-morrow shall

probably be so dumfoundered with astonishment at my

daring and success as not to be able to write at all. Ten

minutes ago trembled to open note which Holmes
brought from the Museum after hours, and which settled
a

  I

                                           a
                                                                                a
the matter. Never did philosopher make so bold

stroke for wife."

The intended voyage was, with the full consent of

Miss Ashworth's friends, at once abandoned, and pre

parations were made for the marriage, which,                                         was
                                              it
                                                     it
arranged, should take place as soon after the meeting of
the British Association as possible. As for Forbes,
442                    MEMOIR OF              CHAP. XIII.

may readily be imagined that his ideas for some weeks

were none of the clearest. Fortunately, he had no very

important paper to read before the Association, while the

more pressing literary work of the Survey had been

completed, or was far on the way to completion. By

the end of July, however, he had made up his mind to

leave London and spend some days in Mr. Macandrew's

yacht, before visiting Swansea, where the Association

was this year to assemble. From Milford Haven he

writes to Mr. Thompson (August 3d), -- " I left London

on Saturday, tearing myself most unwillingly from the

arms of love, but determined to do some duty in the

dredging way before Swansea.         It was, indeed, very
Inecessary that should get hold, if possible, of sundry

animals before the winter, for the forthcoming numbers
of the ' Mollusca,' and this was my only opportunity.

IMy dear girl-- for may call her so fairly now-- is quite

reasonable on such points, and fully appreciated my

reasons. I joined Macandrew on Monday morning here.

The weather until to day has been unfit for the deep sea,

but we have been well occupied exploring this Lough

(for so it  of Milford. Moreover, an account of our
            is)

                   It
work here may tell upon the Welsh meeting, and stir up

the leek-eaters.       has struck us to-day that compari
                                              a
son of the list of molluscs found here with those of some
                                                 ?
similar locality at the other end of the Irish Sea, would

be interesting. Strangford Lough     a        the case most
                                          is
parallel. Could you send me such catalogue "
     At this meeting Forbes read -- 1. "Notice of Dis
                                  :

coveries among the British Cystideae." This paper con

tained brief outline of the subject of his monograph
     a
1848.          EDWARD FORBES.                                               443

in the memoirs of the Geological Survey, which waa

published at a later period of this year, and has been

referred to on a preceding pagea                                     430).  On some

                       ;

                                   (p.
                                       a

                                                          2.
marine animals from the British Channel.

       The Red Lions had good muster this year. Forbes

rilled the presidential chair and, after one of his humo

rous speeches, was crowned with                                      velvet cap, em

broidered with the effigies of rampant red Hons.

     On the 15 th of the month, while still at Swansea,
he wrote --

    " Dear Thompson,-- This the last day of the Meet
       :

        is I
                                            is
                                                I
ing, which has been an admirable one both in men and

matter, and never knew the business of our section

better, or the section itself better attended.                              go to

town immediately, to make preparations for being spliced.

My love        at Lymington keeping residence for me.

Everything goes on right."

      On reaching London, he wrote again to the same

correspondent, 25th August 1848 --
    " Dear Thompson, -- ought to have written you
               Ia
                        I

                                                                  :
before this, but man in my condition                                        not compos
                                                                            is

                                                                               I

                                                                                                ; in
for the time.  left Swansea on Friday, arrived

London on Saturday, did as much business as could

started for Southampton on Sunday morning to see

Col. and Mrs. Hay away arrived just in time, and
               I
                   I

                                      ;
could not say that was sorry, as their sailing left

Emily behind.  then went to Lymington, to see

Captain Rooke, E.'s uncle, at whose house we are to be

married, came back on Wednesday, and have been hard

at work getting business settled.
     " Wc arc to be married on Thursday next (Aug.
444        MEMOIR OF                       CIIAK XIII.

3 1st). The bride's uncle, Sir George Burrard, who is
head of the family, will probably perform the ceremony.

I expect Oldham over to be my assistant, as Ramsay

is in Scotland, and most of my old friends have got

married of late. Oldham comes as my colleague in the

Survey. After a week at Bournemouth we shall go

upon the Survey, which, being on the Llangollen and

Snowdon districts, will suit well. No more at present.
--Ever, .
                                           E. Forbes."

     After the marriage and the week at Bournemouth,
the professor proceeded with his young wife to Llan

gollen in North Wales, to join the geological surveyors.
In this movement he was regulated mainly by the
prospect of having to request additional leave of absence

during the winter, as the Chair of Natural History at
Edinburgh seemed likely to fall vacant before many
months could elapse. Instead, therefore, of making a

long marriage tour, he resolved to reserve his holiday,

and employ it in strengthening his chances of obtaining
the long-coveted haven of rest in the north. In the
meantime, he said he would " many as an ouvrier, and

go down upon the Survey a week after the wedding."

     At Llangollen he took lodgings in a small farm-house,
by the side of the lane leading over the hills to Glyn

Ceiriog, which was afterwards known among the geologists

Ias " Honeymoon Cottage." " am squatted down here

with my wife," he wrote, "in a very homely cottage with

          I                                and some very beautiful

                                      it,
a cabbage-garden before

scenery.   have every reason to be more and more

pleased with her every day."
1*49.  EDWARD FORBES.  445

      The presence of Mrs. Forbes, and a sister of the
present Local Director of the Geological Survey of Ire
land, enlivened some of the geological excursions. Mr.
Jukes, who was one of the surveyors of the party, has
furnished the following particulars of this period of
Forbes's life. " The wet weather," he says, " which was

so continuous in Wales during all June, July, and August

of 1848 had then given place to a fine autumn, and we

had one or two delightful days among the hills and val
leys north of the Dec. We crossed over the hill of Cas-
tcll Dinas Bran several times. On one occasion being
driven to take shelter under some of the arches of the

ruin, Forbes dashed off a sketch in which Ramsay,

Aveline, and I figured as brigands on the look-out peering

over the crags. On another visit it was proposed that we
should race down the north side of the hill. With the

Iadvantage of strong, hob-nailed country boots, could run

with case down the declivity, assisting Mrs. Forbes to

keep pace with us. Forbes himself, however, being shod
with smooth-soled boots, had made slower progress, and
when on reaching the bottom we looked back for him, we
saw him advancing very deliberately, and in a fashion al

together his own. Squatting down with his hands on the

ground behind his heels, and taking his knees over his
shoulders, he hobbled down, partly on his hands and

partly on his feet, with a queer rocking-horse motion, his

lengthened and distorted face and thrust-out tongue

peering out behind his legs. It was an admirable im

personation of the pucks, elves, and hobgoblins he so
delighted to draw."

     The requirements of the Survey never admit of a
44C  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XIII.

lengthened sojourn in one locality, and Forbes found his
married life not less nomadic than his state of bachelor

ship had been. After six weeks pleasantly spent among
the hills of Wales, partly with Mr. Jukes at Llangollen,
and partly with Mr. Ramsay at Llanberis, he had to cross
to Ireland in the end of October to arrange the collec
tions of the infant museum in Dublin. Mrs. Forbes,

however, accompanied him, and remained with him dur

ing his stay in Ireland.

     It would be hardly true to assert that Forbes had

grown weary of his appointment, and that its duties
became more irksome the longer they were performed.
In point of fact, his natural temperament inclined him
to the kind of life rendered necessary in the Survey, and

had his course only been beginning, he would have

entered most heartily into its pleasures and fatigues.

But it must be remembered that, he had joined the

Survey to gain a livelihood, and be able to give himself

eventually to the natural history work to which his pre

vious life had been devoted, and which was undoubtedly

his proper vocation. Can it be wondered then, that as

years rolled on and no leisure came, as he had to work

hard, and received wholly inadequate remuneration, as
gradually he found himself drawn into new spheres of
scientific inquiry, while those which he had marked out
as the business of his life remained untrodden, and the

materials he had collected lay waste and inaccessible, --
can it be wondered that in these circumstances he should

have longed to relinquish a post which required him to

 work the work of others, while his own, on which he be

licved his fame was to rest, could only be done fitfully
ms. EDWARD FORBES. 447

in stolen intervals, or not done at all ? It was not dis

content or restlessness that impelled him, nor even a

desire for a larger income (though that would have been
gladly welcomed), but the earnest wish to gain rest and
leisure to complete what he had begun, and to build his
reputation, not on the arrangement of museums and the
determination of fossil species, but on original natural
history investigations, and on the enlarged philosophic
views of the connexion of the natural history sciences,
which could only be worked out during a life of quiet

and freedom.

     Moreover, he complained of a want of definite ar
rangement in the Survey, that official intermeddling
from head quarters perplexed and hindered the useful
ness of the service, and that a system of " red-tape
routine" was employed in dealing with the Survey
wholly at variance with the nature of scientific work.

     The erection of the new Museum in Jermyn Street,
to contain all the collections of Craig's Court, and the
proposal to establish in the new building a training-
school for geological science, seemed the dawning of

better things. It was possible to develop there an un

equalled range of educational advantages, and to create
an admirable school of geology with its cognate sciences.
Edward Forbes knew well the capabilities of this esta
blishment, and fully admitted that it might be made
one of the finest scientific colleges in the world. But
he saw no prospect of a change of arrangement, or sign
of greater order, and looked forward with not a little

Idistrust to the scientific prospects of the future. " have

no intention of leaving the Survey," he wrote to Pro
448  MEMOIR OF                   CHAP. XIII.

fessor Ramsay, " unless a better post turns up, and in the

present state of Survey arrangements, should anything

happen in Edinburgh, the temptation would be very

strong ; since both in a pecuniary point of view, and in

freedom of movement, an appointment there would be

superior. It ought not to be so, but unfortunately is so,
Inor do see much sign of a better state of things here."

     Again, while in Dublin, he remarked to the same cor

respondent, 1st December 1848 :--

    " For my own part, whilst I would gladly stay with

the Museum, if things were put in definite and dignified
Iorder, am fully determined not to sit doavn there under
Iany provisional ' adjustment.'
                                 cannot seriously much

longer give up all time for thought, travel, or reading ;

time which, in a pecuniary point of view, is worth twice

as much as any income the Museum will give ; unless

something better be proposed than an indefinite position,
Ia small salary, and vague hopes and promises.
                                                                               see

clearly as a man gets older he requires some stable posi

tion to maintain both his respectability and his comfort.

I fuel in London that the Survey and Muzzy1 at present

give neither, and every day have occasion to learn that

my position there depends on my doings out of the

Museum, and my post at King's College, whilst my really
most important office, that of the Survey, gives no con
sideration, but is looked upon as a sort of clerkship.
Now, this can be all remedied without making any ex
traordinary demands for money. The present salaries,

considering the position the chief officers are supposed
to hold, are of course insufficient ; but no very great

     i Korbvs's contraction for Museum. It occurs frequently in l>is letters,
1S4R                 EDWARD FORBES.                  449

increase, with a well-considered plan of educational ope

rations in the new building, would make them comfort
I Iable.
      keep these views very much to myself, as do

not wish to impede the work, but am quite determined

when we meet in town to bring things to a distinct

understanding."

      While at Dublin he found it necessary to visit the

Isle of Man, to take steps towards the securing, if pos

sible, of his lands of inheritance. He thus describes the
results of the trip in a letter to Mr. Thompson :--
      " My Manx business
                          a is,I  hope, in train for satisfac

tory settlement.  I  wish to save certain estates, which

would be small and unimportant in England, but which,

in the Isle of Man, have meaning beyond their value,
having been in the Manx part of my family from time

unrecorded. The only power had over them was theI

preventing of their going to sale. In order to get rid of
the embarrassment before thought of getting married,
                          I

I  had made arrangements for forcing a conclusion 're

specting them, and bringing them to definite sale, or
                                         a

rather such part of them as could be so treated. Acting

under the advice of two relatives (one of whom has init

his power to leave me property       by  and by), ventured
                                            I

on purchasing the main parts of these properties, and

selling the outlying portions. As nobody would bid

against me, though lots of purchasers came, since the

Manx looked upon me as rightful owner, had to take
      I
                                           I

                                                       I
what wanted on pledge of paying the mortgages, which

nearly came up to the value of the land. What re

tained in this way came to between £4000 and £5000,

to be settled in six months' time."

                               2f
450             MEMOIR OF                        CHAP. XII r.

     This sum was secured through Mrs. Forbes's trustees,

and the property thus remained still in the family of the

Manx Forbeses.

      Before the end of the year the professor had returned
with Mrs. Forbes to London, and the Christmas week

was passed with his mother-in-law at Sandgate in Kent.

He would not furnish a house in town ; the uncertainty

whether he was to remain in the Survey, or to obtain an

early appointment to Professor Jameson's chair, forbade

such a step. So that after Christmas, he returned to
London, and contented himself with hiring a furnished

house for six months, and breathing a hearty wish for

the northern professorship.

     The work of the winter, besides the ordinary duties

of the Survey, embraced the preparation of a lecture for

the Royal Institution, on the question whether new

species have come into existence since the creation of

man. It was given on the 2d of March, and is analysed

in a letter written a day or two afterwards to Mr. Jukes :

-- " I gave my lecture at the Royal Institution on Friday

evening.  Subject, ' Have new species appeared since

man's creation ?' It is trying how near one can go to

the fire without burning one's fingers.

    " Argument. --We have no positive or available

evidence of new species having appeared within the
human epoch, for the increase in the lists of species
depends on the increase of our knowledge ; and the
assertions of Crosse, etc., about the creation of animals

by electricity are rubbishy.                     Certain
      " What then can we say on the question ?

     " I propose a test not yet applied ; viz.,
1849.               EDWARD FORBES.                                                                                                       451

areas, presenting all the capabilities for becoming zoolo

gical and botanical centres of creation, have been formed

since the termination of the last pre-Adamite period,

i.e., since the glacial epoch.

    . " Ex. -- Terrestrial. Britain, north of Europe.

                 Marine. Baltic, Mediterranean.
       " Do we find the population of such areas members

of special centres of creation, or colonists from older ones ?

     " They are all colonists and emigrants from older

centres.

       "The presumption, therefore,
I                                     that new centres
     I

                              is

                                                 is it is,

                                                                                                                                      :
(and, consequently, species) have not come into existence
since the commencement of the human epoch.

      " don't intend to flatter the parsons by taking

their dates for man's age, but mean fairly to state that
  speak of the epoch of man's advent geologically, and

am quite as ready to admit that       happened twenty

thousand years ago as five thousand.
       " The above
                    the more practical part of my ar
gument. The more transcendental as follows --
       " Centres in time are analogous to centres in space (or

in other words, provinces in time are regulated by the

same laws as provinces in space).
     " Question. -- Is man member of the last organic pro
                    if

                               a
vince in time, for so, he need not have been the last

member, and species might have appeared after him                                                                                        ?

     " rgument on this point. -- The members of the pre
       A

sent animal (and vegetable) population of the world arc
members of centre in time, which had its point of crea
          a

tive maximum anterior to man's coming.                                                                                                   Man
     "Man's appearance a unique geological fact.
452  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XIII.

not a member of the last centre of creation, but a
unique being and concentrated act of creation equivalent
to an entire province in himself.

     " The steps of this part of the argument too long for a
scribble.

     " Conclusion. --That the probabilities are in favour of
no creations after man.

     " That the creation of man was a final act, and the

great purpose to which previous creations tended.
     " That such a view accords with the dignity of position

and moral and social stand, taken by man in the world.

     " The whole lecture springs out of my last on generic

Icentres, and is one of a series, which mean one of these

days to print in the shape of a volume of essays, " On
the Mutual relation of the Natural History Sciences."

     The Museum in Jermyn Street had now so far advanced

as to allow the boxes and hampers that had been lying
for years in Craig's Court to be at last unpacked. The
arrangement of the fossils in the galleries of the new

building continued to form a chief part of Forbcs's sur
vey duties up to May of the following year. He had
begun too the preparation of illustrations of British Or
ganic Remains as part of the Survey publications, and
the first decade appeared on the 24 th of May of this

year. It was devoted to a selection of Echinoderms, of

the orders Asteriadce and Echinidce.

     On the 24 th of June, Mrs. Forbes was prematurely
confined of a still-born infant. Her health during the
summer remained such as to give Forbes some anxiety,
while he himself also was far from well. A short visit
1849.               EDWARD FORBES.  453

to Mr. Austen of Chilworth Manor, Surrey, occupied the

latter part of July, and served to send back the Professor

with renewed energy to the dusty boxes in Jermyn

Street. While at Chilworth he found time to super

intend the packing of the fine collection of Devonian

fossils which Mr. Austen had presented to the national

collections in Craig's Court. This done, he left Mrs.

Forbes under Mrs. Austen's care and returned to town,

putting up at his old bachelor's quarters in Edward Street.

       The fossils hitherto unpacked in the Jermyn Street

building were chiefly from secondary rocks, but the list
was in many respects incomplete. To augment and at
                                    it,
the same time accomplish some important palaeontologicalla

work among the upper oolites, Forbes wished to spend

the latter part of the summer, and as much of the autumn

as could be spared, in examining the secondary rocks in

the field. One of the surveyors, Mr. Bristow, was en

gaged at the time in Dorsetshire, and Sir Henry de

Beche consented that Forbes should join him. It was the

middle of August before this arrangement was carried
out. In the meantime, having no prospect of being him

self able to attend the British Association this year, he

nevertheless commenced as usual beating up among his

friends for papers for the Meeting. It was with great

reluctance that he felt himself compelled to abandon all

hope of being at the Association, for the Meeting was to

be held at Birmingham, and apart from other attractions,
the " Eed Lions" would appear in great force to hold

their festivities in the town where they first saw the light.

But considerations of expense had sufficient weight to
                    " To come from Dorsetshire up to
decide the matter.
454  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XIII.

the meeting," he wrote to Dr. Percy, " would be too much

Iof a journey, and too great an expense, so that quite

give up all intention of being at Birmingham. The ex
penses of furnished house-rent, etc. etc., in London, scien

tific societies, subscriptions, etc. (unless my salary be
raised to a respectable sum, or some equivalent be given

in time to enable me to pull up), will, I fear, never admit

of my maturing famUy expeditions to associations. Hav
ing a great respect for Birmingham, as the birthplace of

Ithe ' Reds,' cannot but regret that such must be the

case." As the time for his departure for the south-west

drew near, there seemed a possibility that the trip to
Birmingham might be achieved after all. So he wrote

again to Dr. Percy, August 15th :--

    I" am still in London, and none the better of being

so. Mrs. Forbes is staying with Mrs. Austen, near Guild

Iford, and trust that before ten days are over we shall

be down with Bristow in Dorsetshire.

    I" 1f 1 come to the Birmingham meeting, shall come

alone. It will depend upon some business which must
call me to London in September, and which I will en
deavour to get so arranged as to suit my visiting Bir
mingham. In that case I "will endeavour to get a quiet

bed at the original ' Red Lion.' If I don't come, 1 will

send not a song but a dirge."
      Towards the end of August he left London, and pro

ceeded witb Mrs. Forbes to the Dorsetshire coast. On

arriving there, he wrote :--

                     " West Lulwoktii, Wiueiiaii, Dunsktsiiihk, 21th Auyust 1840.

     " Dear Ramsay, -- You will see by the above address

that 1 am down among the oolites, etc..
1^9.           EDWARD FORBES.                                     455

      " Gapper1 joins rne this week, and Bristow and 1

meet in a day or two. This locality  is,

                                             I
                                                    I
                                                            from what

can see, fine place to make up our cretaceous collec
      it
tions for starting. But we have just come, and can't
           a
say much on the geology yet. Wc arc lodged in the

smallest possible thatched cottage, which we have at

the prodigious rate of twelve shillings week. Gapper
                               is
                                  a

                                              a
took for us. We brought our own sheets and knives
with us, and do very well. It
                               most out-of-the-world

sort of place, but with magnificent cliff scenery almost

at our door."

      It was still doubtful whether the law business which

necessitated his presence in London would be arranged
before the meeting of the Association. In this uncer

tainty he had received, and been forced to decline several

invitations from friends in Birmingham who wished him
to accept their hospitality during the meeting. " can
not make family excursion," he said, " and to leave my
IA
              Ia

                                      i

                     I:
                           I

                                                           is
                                                               a

                                           I

                                                         I

                                                      I
wife in this out-of-thc-world place would not be fair."

      few days, however, after his arrival at the coast, he
wrote to Dr. Percy --
" September 10th. --As there
                               prospect of the time

for my private business in town suiting the time of the

Association meeting, can now say that will be there.

shall leave this to-morrow afternoon, but must be in

London all Thursday.   will come to Birmingham by

the early train on Friday morning, and will drive to the

reception rooms, and there leave my bag till turn up

quarters.      write this to set your mind at rest about my

coming, and to ask you to enrol me in whatever party

               One of the fossil-collectors of the Survey.
456  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XIII.

you and Henry go with on Saturday, i.e., if you visit the

caves at ' Dudley by water.'

    " Mrs. Forbes visits her aunt at Lymington whilst I am

away. She sends best regards. Give mine to Mrs. Percy."

    The papers which he read at this meeting were :--

      1. On a remarkable monstrosity of a Vinca.
     2. On the varieties of the Wild Carrot.
     3. On the Genera of the British Patellaceas.
     4. " On Beroe Cucumis, and the genera or species of
Ciliograda which have been founded upon it ;" a paper
in which he described the occurrence of egg-like gem-
mules on different parts of the Beroe, and pointedly
dwelt on the varied appearance of the animal when pro
ducing these gemmules, its changes of form and colour

being so great that somewhere about fifteen species, dis

tributed under four if not six genera, had been con

structed by naturalists out of this one creature.
      The "Red Lions" met as usual, and celebrated with

great effect their tenth anniversary. Forbes never failed
to chant at their annual dinner at least one new song,
and that which he contributed to this meeting was called
the " Song of the Beroe," suggested, doubtless, by the
direction given to his thoughts during the preparation of

the paper just referred to.

      He returned immediately to Dorsetshire, and wrote

to Mr. Thompson, October 4th :--
     " I write this from our rural (surveying) retirement,

where my wife and I are ensconced in a very minute

thatched cottage, out of the way of the world and every
thing else. You will have heard from Hyndman, pro

bably, that 1 was at Birmingham. Having business to
              EDWARD FORBES.                           457

do in London at that time, I killed two birds with one

stone, and went to the Meeting ; leaving Mrs. Forbes on

the way at her uncle's, Captain Rooke, at Lymington.
      " The Meeting was a very good one, and went oft'

very well ; the natural history Section was fully attended,

and altogether there was not the slightest symptom of a

decline in the prospects of the Association. Sir Robert

Peel did not show, and the honours of the neighbourhood

were done by Lord Wrottesley, and well done.
I" am hard at work when the days are rainy, and in
the evenings with the Mollusca, to do which I have
Ibrought books, specimens, etc., all down with me.
                                                       find,

Ihowever, that have forgotten to make a note of what

Patterson says on the consumption of Limpets in Ireland,
and wish to refer to it immediately. Could you kindly
state in a few words the purport of it (and the figures),

as I should not like to omit it.

     " We shall be here till the middle or end of Novem

ber, perhaps later. The coast scenery is very fine and

well worth seeing, and the natural history and botany

very interesting. We are close to the sea-side.
" If Maguire murdered me he has certainly hit you
Ioft' to a nicety in the portrait.
                                    am to sit again."

At this time his friend and colleague, Mr. Jukes,

married, and to Mr. Ramsay, who sent a description of

the wedding, Forbes wrote, October 7th :--
    " Dear Ramsay, --We are very much obliged to you

for the picture, so well drawn, of Jukes's wedding, which

must have gone off famously. The best wish we can

      is,                                hope you kissed the
         a

                                      I
give  similar one to yourself.

bridesmaids.
458                 MEMOIE OF  CHAP. XIII.

     " Where is Jukes and his Missus ? We want to

write to them.
      " Bristow seems determined to finish this country

before starting, and as the Purbeck side is comparatively

easy, may do it before Christmas. In one of the bays

near here there is a fine clear section right through the

Dorsetshire cretaceous series, and the beds below down
to the Kimmeridge. We mean to go over it together,
bed by bed, and construct a vertical table, with the dis
tribution of fossils minutely on it. Gapper is hard at
work with me.

     " Living in a cottage with a wife of one's own, and

no ceremony or callers, is such a happy state of existence

that I feel sure Jukes has done right, and wish you re

solved to do the same. Looking over some old scraps

of mine a day or two ago, I came on a poem you have

never seen, and send you it.

     "With best regards from Mrs. Forbes, ever yours,
E. F."

     To Mr. Jukes himself, Forbes sent a congratulatory
epistle, beginning with an illuminated initial letter, formed
by the tail of a red lion which stands in the centre of a

                                    triangle -- a characteristic

                                           blending of the old " oin-

                                               eromathic" idea with that
                                           of the more recent " lied

                                               Lions."

ilictus, -- i take  infinite            " Lulwoutu Cove, near Waukham,
                                                           Dorset, Oclubcr 19, 1849.

                                r Jukes, and brother bene-

                              disgrace and shame to myself
IMP. EDWARD FORBES. 459

for not having before this written to congratulate
you on entering among the ranks of the blessed. This
is the more disgraceful on my part, since it is now above

Ia year since have tasted the happy cup of matrimony,

and have found it grow sweeter every day. When a

year of your married life shall have rolled away, you

will find the same sweet taste increasing, although now,

Ijust as did at your period of development, doubtless,

you fancy that you could not be happier than you are.

I congratulate you, old fellow, on your choice, and wish

every possible accumulation of felicity on you and your
Iwife, for many a long year to come.
                                      wish

could or would join our ranks, so that ho might be a

                       is,

                              I
happier man than he longing as he does daily to take

to himself wife.
     " Ever since Brummagem, have been in Dorsetshire,
a
      is
among Purbecks and Portlands, chalks and grcensands.

The country extremely interesting, and very pictur

esque. We are located  in     cottage about one-fourth
                           a

tlje dimensions of that which we inhabited at Llangollen,

just big enough for me and my wife and maid to sleep
in. Wc wait upon ourselves, and do the cooking

amongst us, independent of pickling mushrooms, mak

ing ketchups, and pickling samphire, which occupations

are the chief amusements of the village. There are no

talkable people within ten miles, except coast-guard
a

                               Ia
officer, and pleasant parson, three miles off. Now,

having told you our state and condition, hope, when

you have a spare half hour, to hear of yours, and with

best respects to Mrs. Jukes, remain ever, dear Jukes,
                                 " Edward Forbes."
affectionately yours,
460  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XIII.

     The scientific results of this residence in Dorsetshire

are not the least important of Edward Forbes's contribu
tions to palaeontology. He proved that the Hastings
sand contained fossils which linked it with the super

posed chalk, and that the Purbeck strata, which had
hitherto been classed with the Wealden, really belonged
to the Oolitic series. He showed, moreover, that these

Purbeck beds were capable of a threefold division, each
of the groups being characterized by a distinct fauna ;
that the lines of demarcation between these groups were
sharp, and yet were not lines of physical disturbance,
while lines of disturbed beds showed no accompanying
change of organic remains. He also made the important

discovery that air-breathing mollusca lived at the period
of the Purbeck beds, and inferred from them the pro
bable existence of mammalian remains. He announces

his discoveries in successive letters to Mr. Rainsay.

Thus, on October 28th, he says :--
    " Dear Ramsay, --You are such a long way off, that

it seems impossible to write to you, or I would have

answered your last before now.
     " Gapper tells me that you mention coming this way

Iin November. What are your plans, for would gladly

avail myself of the opportunity of going over the sec

tions, etc., with you, if it be your intention to run over

Bristow's work, as to do so would be a great help to

wards my full understanding of the fossils. If that
were arranged any time ' before Christmas,' I have
plenty to do hereabouts, and in Swanage (whither I must

move) before you come, and when you come, 1 would
break up my camp, wherever it might l>c, and Mrs. V.
1R49.                            KDWARD FORBES.       461

would go to Lymington to visit her aunt, whilst I was

on the Survey with you. Write me your notions.

    " I am very well pleased with the results of my work

here, so far, and very glad, for our Museum and Survey's

Isake, came. The ' geology of England ' may be ' done '
by the old fellows, but it is not overdone yet. I have

been working over every section of the Purbccks in the

district, creeping over the beds with glass at eye, looking
to the minutest traces of life, and its changes, in those
curious fresh-water strata. As the tracking of change
in fresh-water beds has mainly to be made by observa
tion of Cyprides, and such almost microscopic forms,

nothing but personal inspection can give the clue. So

Ifar, I fancy, have made out a complete change in

the sets of forms of minute animal life in the different

series of fresh-water beds which are separated by marine

Ior estuary beds in the Purbcck. Moreover, have found

no fewer than seven species belonging to existing genera
of fresh-water pulmonifera in these beds (species of
Lymnea, Physa, and Planorbis),1 a race of animals, the

(supposed) non-existence of which during the secondary

i Those air-breathing gasteropoda were                Lion" dinner at Ipswich in 1851, cau
                                                      tions geologists against reasoning too
found in a dark shaly stratum or dirt                 much on Negative Facts, and contains
                                                      the following reference to the Purbeck
bed, from eight inches to a foot in thick             discoveries mentioned in the text :--

ness. Forbes justly dwelt with empha                     " Down among the Purbccks deep

sis on this discovery, which was indeed                             enough,

one of the most interesting made in his                       A I'hysa and Planorbis
                                                           Were grabbed last year out of fresh
day. He remarked at the time to Mr.
Bristow, that if ever mammalian re                                  water stuff,
                                                               By Bristow and E. Forbes.
mains were found in the Purbeck scries,                     (Agassiz just had given his bail,
                                                               'Twas adverse to creation,
it would be in this stratum lying be                        That there should live pulmoni-

tween the middle and lower series.                                ferous snail,
                                                               Before the chalk formation.)
Since this prediction, Mr. Brodie, and

after him Mr. Bccklcs, have disinterred

the remains of reptiles and insecti

vorous mammals.   Seo Quart. Jour.

Geol.  Soc. vol.  xiii. p. 261.  forAntheam"usRinegd
song   written    by Forbes
462                     MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XIII.

epoch has called forth not a few prematurely wise com

ments in geological works. I have also found two, if

not three species of the genus Valvata, hitherto only ter
tiary and recent. These are palaeontological results of
some value. The end of this week's work has resulted

in a little discovery in these beds of considerable interest,

Iand very unexpected. have found a thin band of shales

of marine origin in the midst of that part of the fresh
water series which comes between the 'cinder' bed

(oyster baud) and the corbula bed, filled with a well
marked, and of course new, species of Pecten, reminding
one in the most striking manner of the Pecten 2)apy-
raceus bands in the coal formation, and for which a

parallel was wanting.
     " Is Sir Henry going to remain in town all this

autumn ?
     " As my wife sends a line herewith I won't give her
regards. --Ever, etc.,
                                   E. F."
     To Mr. Van Voorst he writes on 6 th November :--

     " I take up one of those rarities, a fair-sized sheet of

paper, to write in reply to your last, and to make sure of

writing a fair-sized letter.

    " It is a great pleasure to hear of the good effects of

Wimbledon air upon your body, and of the fattening

thereof. The Dorsetshire sea air has had a like effect

Iupon me, and burst a button or two every three days.
I3y this time I intended to have been moving London-

wards, but geological work of such fresh interest has

turned up within the last month that I am loath to

leave till it is done, and probably will not get back till

some time in December. We are very happy and snug
1849.            EDWARD FORBES.  463

ill our little cottage here, and, I fancy, abstinence from

dinner parties and all the luxuries of town, with early
hours for bed-going, is getting me a new lease of good

health. The places here on the coast arc wonderfully

healthy, so much so, that to paraphrase the Yankee jest,
" the people have to move to the other side of the
country when they wish to die.' "

    " 10</i November. --Dear Ramsay, -- Since I last
wrote you I have been thinking and dreaming of nothing
but Purbecks, and will end, if I go on so, by growing

into one of those slender columns of Purbeck marble

which adorn old monuments in old cathedrals. Last

Iweek worked over the Ridgeway section and quarries

about Upway with Bristow with most satisfactory results.

I shall rile Ibbetson terribly by telling him what he

missed in his section, which, besides, runs the Portlands

far into the Purbecks. The exact division between the

two I have made out precisely both here and at Upway.

In all the sections there is a precise line, where out-and-

out marine beds come in contact with out-and-out fresh

water beds. Of course such a succession implies an in

terval in time. The nature of the beds at contact, for

the first time, has been demonstrated by fossils beyond
Iquestion.
            now find my marine 'pecten-bed' every

where, with many more marine fossils in it. My list of

Purbeck invertebrate species, is now between fifty and

sixty, an enormous fauna, for what in the main is a fresh

water and estuary series. The published lists enumerate

twelve. I am measuring up the beds and making a

minute section.

       "The best part of the work is probably to come. From
4G4  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XIII.

what I have found here, it seems almost certain (strange

as it may appear) that Fitton and Mantell constructed
(in the Swanage district) lower greensand out of Hast
ings sand, weald clay out of the Purbeck marble series
(my upper fresh-water), and Hastings sand out of my
"upper marine" sandy beds ! ! ! Bristow applauds the
idea, and says his measurements will back it. We shall
see presently. What a triumph it would be for old

Webster's memory !

    " I have written to Sir Henry about these results.

He urges remaining to complete them for the present.

    " Best regards from my wife. --Ever most sincerely,
                                              " Edward Forbes."

     " 25th November. --Dear Ramsay, --This is Sunday
night, Survey letter day, and I am sitting all alone by

myself over a fading fire, and holding my nose, because
of a dead rat which is being laid out under the floor
somewhere, in consequence of the women having laid out

poisoned bread and butter for the beasts --more shame to

them ! You will ask why sitting alone 1 I am sorry to

Isay for a very sad reason. By this time intended to

have been working away at Swanage and nearly done.
On Sunday and Monday, Bristow came to go over the

Purbecks with me here, and compare notes. On Tues

Iday was getting my bag ready for a start, when my

wife was suddenly taken ill, and has been in her bed

ever since with fever -- very alarming and severe till

Thursday night, but the doctor I sent for got her round,
and she is now fast recovering. I hope she will be able

to move by the end of the week. She got your letter
yesterday, and was greatly pleased at hearing.
iwn.                       EDWARD FORBES.                           465

      " When you say that the Hue of division between

the Purbccks and Portlands is exceedingly well marked

in the Isle of Portland, you speak of the supposed line

(I thought the same here for the first two months), as
marked by the dirt-beds and physical features. One of

my points is proving how far exactly the Purbecks

extend downwards, and the result   a           that all the so-
                                      is,
called " caps" are Purbeck without question, the fresh

water beds with Purbeck fossils lying directly upon the

Portland beds with marine fossils, though strangely
alike in mineral character and consolidation. Of this

have satisfied Bristow.    fancy the result will be
is I                       ;
    Ia
                                I
                                       I
that in colouring Portland Isle, all must be coloured as

Purbeck on the map not a thin coat merely, but good

fifteen feet of Purbeck all over.          have made series
                                                           by
of drawings, to show how this affects the scenery. There         a

      very curious physical phenomenon in the lower

beds of the Purbeck here, possibly noticed                   Webster,

but have never heard of it. It the most singularis

mince-meat smashery of about eight feet of shales and
chert-bauds, causing no interruption in the fauna, and

lying between undisturbed beds. It does not occur at

Upway, but very striking at Durdle, Luhvorth, and

Worbarrow, an extent of seven or eight miles. It
      I                    a
                       is                                               is
difficult to understand such break-up between quiet

beds of the same series.
     " have just made another great find in the fossil

way, viz., Gyrogonites (chara seeds) in the fresh-water

limestones here. They have hitherto been only found

in Tertiary fresh waters. It certainly                     wonderfully
                           2

                             o
                                                     is

                                                          a
strange that, whilst there has been so great change in
466                        MEMOIR OF                              CHAr. XIII.

the marine invertebrate fauna of the oolitic times, as

compared with the present, that of the old Purbeck fresh
water beds is such, that, were it now revivified, it would

quite accord with the existing state of things ; or, if we

had not sure evidence, by superposition or rather infra-

position, it would be quite impossible, d priori, to assert

that the Purbecks were not Tertiaries. These considera

tions open out long vistas of reflection.
     " The tlnckness of the Purbecks here is within a foot

or two of 150 feet.1 In old Conybeare's day they were
reckoned at 300--1 don't know how, and don't think

Ithat they are thicker than have seen them. Sir Henry

                   my notion be right) make them only
iand the Dean2

       Iforty feet in this district, which far under the mark,
                                                                  is
                  a (if                                                                   a
but easily accounted for as some of the sections are
                                                       ia
imperfect, the top-beds being squeezed out in line of

fault, whilst they reckoned the thickness from the dirt-

bed below. The sections at this place are so clear that

there can be no mistake
      " Reeks writes me that the Museum has moved bodily

at last.  hope this will be the prelude to an clfective

re-organization and to some plan for the use of the

theatre, etc."

    "Dec 2d. --Dear Ramsay, --My last would cross

your last (do not two letters when they cross produce

additional notes or young letters                                 think mentioned
                                                                  'I
                                                                      ?)
                                                                      I

                                                                                         1.

                                                                               I

                                                                                                              a
what my arrangements were, but, to make sure, send

line now. In couple of days hope to get away from

The Lulworth Cove section                                  about       Dr. Buckland, Dean of Westminster.
                                                                  See their Papers on the Geology of the
180 feet, as shown in Mr. Bristow's Sec                           Weymouth District. Trans. Gcul. Sue.
                                                                  2d Series, IV.
tion. Horizonttd Sections of Geological
Survey, sheet 56.
                        EDWARD FORBES.   467

this, as the doctor thinks that my wife will be well

Ienough to move by Wednesday, and am arranging

accordingly. She has not, however, been out of the

house yet, but has providentially got well much faster

than I hoped. It was, however, a very serious illness.

The tailor of the village was seized with the same fever,

and died in six days though a strong man. Had I not
given calomel in time, I fear to think of the result, the

more so now, after receiving a letter from Oldham
yesterday with an account of the sad death of poor
Medlicott's young wife. He was married only about
the same time with Jukes.

   " My plans arc these : Mrs. F. is to travel on by herself,

resting at Lymington for three or four days, and then

going on to Mrs. Austen for as many. I will pick her up
as I pass by Austen's, and bring her to London with me,

where we are to stay during Christmas with her mother,

who has taken a house in St. John's "Wood somewhere. In

the meantime, she and her mother propose to run about

...looking for quarters, and when they have found desir
able ones, to call me in to consult,     By the begin

ning of the year we hope to find a nest, either a home

like last year, or such thing can be got on moderate
terms) suite of rooms sufficient for all purposes, and
seeing friends, as near the Museum as possible. During

Christmas week mean to be chiefly at work getting to
gether illustrations and notes for my Royal Institution
lecture, the subject of which will be useful one to work
a

        I

              (if

                                a

                                      a

up, as bearing upon my projected Purbeck memoir. One
of our earliest calls during that week will be to see the

Playfairs.  .
                .
                     .
4G8                   MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XIII.

     " They say it is an ill wind that Mows nobody good :

my poor wife's illness has been no impediment to my
work, but rather has added some very material data ; for
in consequence of the wet weather, the clays have been

Iso thoroughly washed that some beds in which was

unable to find any but large fossils have now shown their

small ones, and very important they have proved as
Ibearing on this investigation.
                                 have found pulmonifer-
ous mollusca in the highest beds -- a point of consequence,
Isince now have them in the beginning, middle, and

end of the series. During the last few days I have

added the genus Bithynia (i.e., palndinte, with calcare

ous opercula) to the Purbeck, and consequently, to the

secondary fauna. Strange to say, but agreeable with all

else here, the species closely resembles an existing one.

IThe end will be what predicted in a paper on the sub

ject in  the  Annals  of Natural History nine years ago,
         we   cannot
-- that               employ fresh-water mollusca, as we

can marine, to distinguish formations of different geo

logical epochs ; consequently, that we must depend on

superposition almost entirely for determining the posi

tion of fresh-water formations.

    " I have laid down my section with all the distribu

tion, etc., and the nature of the water, whether salt,

brackish, slightly brackish, or purely fresh, on the ruled

railway paper-- taking a scale of two feet to the inch,

which enables the phenomena to be fully displayed. It

looks very pretty, and will especially do so when clearly
Icopied out.
              shall be able to give the distribution of

the vertebrata as well as the invertebrata. I have felt

very great pleasure in this work, as it is the very best
1840.  EDWARD FORBES.                                   469

example that could be given of the importance of minute

palfeontology applied to geology, and I hope the Survey

will be pleased with
     " My wife sends best regards.
       it.                          Ever, etc., E. F."
                 a

                                              a
     As arranged, Mrs. Forbes went to Lymington and he
to Swanage. Two days afterwards he began to feel un
well, and mentioned the circumstance in note to his

wife. On the fifth day his illness had increased so much
that he could only scrawl few words, " Dearest love,

come." Mrs. Forbes started immediately, and on arriving
at Swanage late that night, found him very seriously ill

with scarlet fever-- the same disease which had attacked

herself at Lulworth. He continued ill for two or three

weeks, and was kindly attended by Dr. Charles Willcox,

who first visited him as brother naturalist, but on being
       a
                                 by
shown to his room, found him in an alarming state of fever.

The patience and gentleness exhibited         Forbes during

this illness, as well as in every other illness of his life, were

   very great. He never complained, and seemed only to
m think of the trouble he occasioned, especially to his wife.

       When sufficiently recruited he returned to London,

and found that the Craig's Court household had transferred

itself to Jermyn Street, where, as he said, nothing could
be heard save " noisy hammers making ferocious music in
the vasty halls of the Museum." Much had been done in

his absence, and though year or more might still elapse
                        a
                            it

                                          is

                                       I
before everything could be completed, yet the rate of pro
gress was rapid. " The Museum
                                    progressing fast," he
wrote to Mr. Thompson, " so fast that (bread having to

make an election between  and Edinburgh before the
470             MEMOIR OF                                     CHAP. XIII.

latter place is ripe, in which case I should be obliged,

under existing circumstances, to take the former."
     There was, of course, not a little in the way of arreare

to be worked up among the fossils. The new light

which his researches in Dorset had thrown upon the
upper oolite, enabled him to proceed with greater con
fidence in the construction of the fossil lists. There had

also been collected, under his own eye, an important
series of fossils from the Purbeck beds and associated

strata of the Dorsetshire coast, and these had now to be

unpacked and examined. To save time by being not

far from the Museum, he took a furnished house in

Welbeck Street, Cavendish Square, and established him
self there for the rest of the winter.

     To be under the necessity of frequently changing

one's place of abode for the most part, irksome enough,
A
                        isbut especiallyso to the man of science who must
                       it

                                      is,
                                                          is
needs accumulate books, papers, manuscripts, specimens,
and instruments of various kinds, and to the success of

whose studies undisturbed quiet                               almost absolutely

essential. With Edward Forbes, as with the other mem-

Lers of the Survey, this nomadic life was unavoidable.
   large part of the year had, of course, to be passed in

the field, shifting from place to place, according to the
requirements of the Survey. The salaries were not ade
quate to the expense of a permanent town-house, and
the winter months, which were usually spent in London,

could only be passed in temporary residences. In Forbes's

case was even worse than with ids colleagues, notwithit
standing his wife's fortune, for his college lectures com
pelled him to be in town longer and during the most
1S49.  EDWARD FORBES.  471

 expensive season, and sometimes he had to return for

them even after he had gone down to Survey work in the
 country. Hence his complaints of the insufficiency of the
salaries, and hence, too, one cause, though a minor one, of

his anxiety to gain at last the Edinburgh professorship.
      He had a strong conviction of the necessity for

scientific men, in official stations, maintaining a high
social position. His marriage, although it gave greater

prominence to this feeling, certainly did not produce it.
We have seen how exalted even in his student days were

his notions about the intrinsic dignity of science. In
the University Maga, for instance, the sentiment found
emphatic utterance, and it gave tone to all the canons
and aims of the " Universal Brotherhood." From that

early period of his career on to the end, Forbes never
ceased to proclaim by his conduct, as well as in words,
that the pursuit of science was a high and honourable

vocation, and that its followers were entitled to no mean

place in the social scale.
     Two other features in his character should be viewed

in connexion with this high estimate of the dignity of a
scientific avocation, and as explanatory of one of the
features of his married life. In the first place, his love
of society was intense, and from his earliest days it had

been so. Unless when actually at work, he cared not to

be long alone. Solitude was ever irksome, and when his
work was over, he entered again with a deep relish into

the society of his friends. In a lonely wayside inn, for
lack of other company, he would spin long yarns with
the landlord, or mingle readily with any knot of .travel

lers that might chance to appear. Sometimes he was in
472  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XIII.

this way brought into odd situations. On one occasion,
for instance, he was coming down the Rhine, and met,

for the first time, on board the steimer some pleasant
English companions. After dinner one of the party
called for a bottle of wine ; when this was discussed,
another individual ordered a second, and so it went
round. Forbes had barely money enough in his pocket
to carry him to England, but on his turn coming he

found it impossible to resist the temptation, and boldly

called for his bottle. When the reckoning came, the

tourist who sat next Forbes found to his dismay that he

had neglected to cash some bills at the last town, and so
had no funds. He communicated the fact to our natu
ralist, who, of course, warmly sympathized. Another
member of the party, however, came to their relief, and

advanced the requisite sum, only stipulating that they
should meet him that day week in his chambers at the

Temple. At the hour appointed they appeared, and

found a smoking dinner prepared for their reception.1
     The other feature in Forbes's character which should be

taken in connexion with this love of society, and the de
sire to uphold the social influence of a man of science, was

one which he himself would probably have been the last
to admit. Over and above his conception of the abstract
dignity of science, there ran through his life a suppressed
instinctive consciousness of his own intellectual superio

rity. This feeling was never obtrusive. It manifested
itself rather in deeds than in words, and only if his own

position needed to be upheld, as when, on entering the
Survey, he stipulated that none should control his actions

    i This anecdote was related !,}·Forbes to his intimate friend, Mr. Godwin Austcu.
1850.  EDWARD FORBES.                                          473

save the Director- General. His impatience under any

intermeddling with what he considered his proper duty,
and his frequent hursts of indignation at the " red-tape"
routine which trammels the action of Government depart
ments, sprang from the same source. But he never in
his intercourse with others betrayed any consciousness of

superiority, "except," says Mr. Jukes, "in rare instances

under excitement, and then his kindness of heart, and

cordiality of disposition, prevented its ever losing him a
friend." His self-esteem, though strong, was thus com
pletely subdued, and at no time obstructed the heartiest
sympathy with others. There was no tinge of jealousy
in it. He always rejoiced in the higher intellectual dis
plays of his friends, taking a noble pride in them without
caring, or even thinking for a moment, whether or not

they surpassed his own.
     During his bachelor life in London he had mingled

freely in society, and his presence was everywhere coveted.
But the hospitality of course lay for the most part on
one side only. After his marriage, however, he deemed
himself called on to make as far as might be, reciprocal.
His strong social propensities, combined with the desire

to maintain the independence of science, by keeping up
   high social position of his own, induced him to live

much in public, and to incur not little expense. In so

doing he went fully as far as prudence could justify. To
augment his income he found himself compelled to under
take vast amount of extraneous literary and scientific
"hack-work;" even then, his receipts from all sources
did not more than cover his outlay, and the time con

mimed in this way made sad inroads on his leisure.
a
         a

                                          it,
                                                            a
474  MEMOIR OP  CHAP. XIII.

      The subject which he fixed upon for his lecture this

spring to the Royal Institution, was, " The distribution
of fresh-water animals and plants." A fortnight before
the date of the lecture, he wrote to Mr. Thompson for
information :--

     "23c? February 1850. --My object is to show that

all we know of their distribution, goes to confirm the

views I had previously put forward at the Royal Institu

tion. My points arc :--

     " 1st. With respect to fresh-water species ; to show
that whilst their difference can be accounted for mainly
by causes now in action, there is still a residue whose

present distribution must be referred back to epochs of

geological change.
     " 2d. That natural genera of fresh-water animals and

plants have as distinct areas of their own as species have.

I illustrate this especially by a map which I have con

structed of the distribution of Siluroid fishes.
     " 3d. That the formation of new terrestrial areas, in

consequence of geological changes in the form of a
country, and consequently of new systems of drainage,
has always called forth the creative energy in a new
type of form.

     " ith. That when we study the distribution of fresh
water generic types in time, we find that in certain
groups of animals (as molluscs) there has not been that
variation of the type idea which we see in others as

fishes. Curious geological considerations result.
     " Now there is a point in connexion with the first

Iof these heads upon which want your advice as an

ornithologist. The flora of the United States has, as
1S59.                            EDWARD FORBES.                           475

you probably know, a considerable number of plantsI
identical with European species. When these are anais,
                                       is
lysed, there results this resolution of the elements :--
      " 1. Species of the boreal-Scandinavian type, livingit

chiefly on high mountains, and originating from thea

glacial-epoch flora.I
      " 2. Species introduced by man without question.

     "3. A few miniature forms, which may have either

been transmitted along the coasts of the glacial epoch,

or transported by currents at a later period.

     " 4. A considerable residue of species which cannot

be referred to any of the previous heads.

     " My business with you is about this residue No. 4.

I IWhen came to analyse them, found that, with scarcely

an exception, they were aquatic species. This is a very
curious result, and the only way in which it occurs to
me to explain it that this community of aquatic forms
between the continents due to the agency of migratory
birds. But should not like to speak publicly on the
notion without hearing the opinions first of some able
ornithologist, like yourself, who has worked the subject
of migration. Will you then kindly give me your ideas
on this text Vn

      The Botany Class this year was better attended than

   had ever been. In a letter to Mr. Ramsay, Forbes

remarks-- " am fatigued by my morning lectures;
have larger class than ever before, having no fewer
than seventy-four students.

     " The Red Lions met last week very pleasantly."
                                                                        a
   His friend and colleague, Mr. Ram-
                                                                                  I
i                                                  to greater advantage.      He lectured
                                                   clearly and boldly to  large and atten-
say, who    was  "pFreosrebnets  Rt this lecture,
remarks   that                   never appeared    tive audience."
476                    MEMOIR OF                   CHAP. XIII.

     The summer, with its lectures, and fossil-work among

the growing galleries of the Jermyn Street Museum,

gradually wore away, and brought round again the

meeting of the British Association, which this year was

held in Edinburgh. Before leaving London he wrote
"Ito Mr. Ramsay,
                       am coming up with my Purbeck
Istory and the third Decade.1
                                                   hope you and Jukes

will stand forward with good matter. The Geological

Section will be a very different one from its usual

condition. Neither Lyell, Horner, nor Sir Henry are

going. Murchison is to preside ; Sedgwick will be

there. My impression is tbat the debates of the Section

will be conducted by the younger men, and that a

change in its aspect for the better will commence."2
     The papers read by Forbes at this meeting were : --

     1. On the Succession of Strata and Distribution of

Organic Remains in the Dorsetshire Purbecks.3

i The Pahcontological publications of              fossil-collector, Mr. Capper, during the
                                                   latter part of the year IStt). The de
the Survey were issued in Decades, con             tailed structure of the group was then
                                                   elaborated, and the original draft of the
taining ten plates each. The third part            pahcontological subdivisions still exists
referred to above was devoted to the               in Forbes's handwriting, nud has been
illustration of soma forms of Asteriadaj           made use of by Mr. Bristow in construct
                                                   ing the vertical sections of the Purbeck
and Echinidie.
   * This letter, like others written in           strata (Vertical and Horizontal Sections
                                                   of the Geological Survey.) The only
his later years, has a characteristic sig          account published by Forbes himself
           It was stated in a previous
nature.                                            was this short paper to the British As

page that, when writing to a Brother,              sociation, as he reserved the full descrip
                                                   tions until those of the Tertiary ftavio-
he often   coined an   adhviemrbselof ut"  of the  mariue strata of the Isle of Wight had
triangle,  and signed                      Yours   been worked out by him. Unfortun
                                                   ately for science, he died before either
Aly." Here he carries the some idea to
                                                   account was completed.
a ludicrous extent, actually metamor                  This short description, read before the

phosing a rampant lion into an adverb,             British Association in 1850, was pub
with ly coming out of its mouth, as if             lished in the Report for that year. In
                                                   1852, a suinll pamphlet on the (ieulvyy
he had said, in so many words, that he             of the- /sic of Purbeck, was written by
                                                   the Rcv. John H. Austen. That gen-
bore to his friend all the sympathy and

good-will that burned in the breast of a
real Rcd Lion.

   * The true classification of the Pur

beck strata, as shown in previous j>ages,

was first worked out by Edward Forbes,

in conjunction with Sir. Bristow and the
1850.            EDWARD FORBES.          477

       2. On the European species of Echinus, and the

peculiarities of their distribution.

     Leaving Edinburgh, after the meeting was over, he
went with Professor Goodsir and Mr. Macandrew on a

cruise among the Western Islands. They coasted along
the rocky shores of Mull, Skye, and the Lewis, dipping

the dredge or the tow-net as opportunity offered. The
results of the cruise were of considerable value. They

added not a few fossils, and nearly twenty living species,
to the British fauna, while, at the same time, they obtained
a valuable clue to the geology of the Hebrides in the

estuary beds of Loch Staffin, and the discovery, for the
first time in Scotland, of true Oxford clay.1

     On reaching London again, he wrote to Mr. Ram

say :--          of going                  " Jeruyn Street, September 4.
      " Instead
                           direct from the Hebrides to Ire
I Iland, came on here last week.
                                         was anxious to sec

how my wife was, and to set work agoing in the Museum.

I found the former much better than the latter. The

Museum has not advanced an inch towards completion

since I left. The man and the boy from Nelson's pillar

tlcman had enjoyed the advantage of      But this memoir, as has been already
Forbes's company, and that of other      remarked, was never written, and it
members of the Survey, during many       nppears only due to the memory of the
excursions in the Purbeck district. He   great naturalist that these facts should
                                         here be put on record, more especially
has omitted to mention this fact, how    as Mr. Austen in a subsequent paper
                                         (read before the Purbeck Society, 0th
ever, and to explain the close resem     November 1855), has again ignored tho
blance of his paheontological subdivi    name of the man to whom science is
                                         indebted for the first clear exposition of
sions to those previously made out by    the palreontological phenomena of the
Edward Forbes. While alluding to         Isle of Purbeck.
earlier writers on tho geology of Pur
                                            i Quart. Jour. Gcol. Soc. vn. 105 ;
beck, he also omits to notice the paper  also Jameson's Edinburgh Phil. Jour.
published in the Report of the British
Association. Forbes used to say, that    for October 1850.
he reserved his exposure of this pam

phlet until his own memoir on the Pur
beck district was ready for the press.
478           MEMOIR OF                          CHAP. XIII.

seem to have removed here. There is nobody else in

the shape of workmen, and everything is at a stand
still ; indeed worse, for the cases, having been built of

green wood, in too great a hurry, are cracking in every
Idirection.   am in despair. I fully hoped before the

new year to have displayed a scries of fossils from one

end of the geological scale to the other. . . .  The exa

   "I was very successful in the Hebrides.

mination of the Loch Staflin brackish-water strata will

work in famously with the Purbecks. They are really

oolitic, but not where Murchison placed them.

   " I start for Dublin to-morrow, where I expect to

meet Sir Henry.

   " If you knew the delight of meeting a fond little

wife, after a six weeks' absence, you would get married

immediately.                                     Edward Forbes."

     After a series of hurried excursions for three weeks

in Ireland with Sir Henry de la Beche, he returned to

London at the end of September. Shortly after this, he

paid another brief visit to Swanage in Dorsetshire, to

clear up some points in the geology of the Purbeck

strata, and then, coming back once more to London,

settled down for the winter.                     Immediately on his re

turn he wrote --

                                                      " Jeiuiy.n Stueet, 21«i Oct. 1850.

     " Dear Ramsay, --I hear you have returned to the

pool of Bethesda1 to wash yourself geologically clean of

the sins you may have committed in Ireland. My wife

   i A village near the Peurhyn slate quarries,  about seven miles from Bangor, is
called "Bethesda."
1S50.              EDWARD FORBES.         47<J

has been intending to write to you for some, time back,

but in these days of marrying and giving in marriage, it

is difficult to find out where any man is. She wants

much to hear from you a full, true, and particular

account of the dying words and confessions of Thomas

Oldham, Professor       , what the bride was like, where

they wcnt to, and how they mean to move about. Will

you favour me with a screed directed to 76, Upper

Berkeley Street, Portman Square, where we have just

imbedded ourselves for the winter ?

    " I have much to write you anent geological matters,
but will not do it till I hear how and where you arc.

The Museum progresses rather more rapidly, and there

arc signs of cases being in preparation.
       " I have just been at Swanagc, all alone, with very
Isatisfactory results.
                        must go again, however, when

Bristow is there, and perhaps you might manage, some

time in January or thereabouts, to run down with me,

and look at some points of the greatest consequence to

British geology.
     " With best regards from my missus, believe me,

ever, etc.,                               E. F."

      The summer and autumnal rambles being now fairly
over, and the surveyors having already shown symptoms
of preparing to reappear within the bounds of civilisa

tion (so Forbes spoke of their return to London at the
close of the year), he could begin to address lnmsclf to
the work of the winter. And truly he had undertaken

enough to keep his hands fully employed. There was,
of course, the fossil work in the Museum, which, in one
480  MEMOIR OF                         CHAP. XIII.

way or another, kept him at Jermyn Street every day.
But besides the arranging and describing of specimens
for the Museum, he had the " British Mollusca " to carry

on, in conjunction with Mr. Hanley. Most of his letters
to Mr. Thompson at this time are to a large extent
requests for names and localities of shells known to that
naturalist, and necessary to the completeness of the
work. In addition to this, he found leisure in his

evening hours to begin another little volume (which,

however, he never lived to complete), entitled The

Natural History of the European Seas} Mentioning it
to one of his friends, he said he " thought it would tell."
Lastly, he accepted an offer of sixty guineas for twelve
lectures, to be delivered at the Royal Institution once a
week during the ensuing spring. He chose for his sub
ject, " The Geographical Distribution of Organized

Beings," and showed the grouping of plants and animals
into distinct centres and provinces. He concluded the

series in his own characteristic way, by pointing out the
bearing of such natural history inquiries upon geology.

      On the 26 th November, an event occurred for which

he had been anxiously looking, -- his first living child

was born, a vigorous boy, or, as he playfully styled him,
" a young Red Lion, very lively and handsome, and ex

hibiting indications of considerable talent, especially that
of making a noise in the world."

     In answer to an inquiry after the health of the home
circle, he writes to Mr. Patterson :--

     " Dec. 9. -- Your note of the 1st has only found its

   i Completed after his death by Mr.  literary executor), and published  in
Godwin Austen (whom he left his        1859. London, Van Voorst.
1XC0.         EDWARD FORBES.                            481

way here to-day, covered with post-office inquiries.

Where did you direct it to ?

   I" am glad to say that my dear wife is going on as

well as possibly could be wished, and that the little

philosophcr is pursuing the same even tenor of his way.

...Many thanks to you and Mrs. Patterson for your kind

inquiries.

     " My lectures respecting which you inquire, will be

delivered at the Royal Institution, but not reprinted

anywhere that I know of.
    " Next week I go to Ransome for his anniversary,

[at the Ipswich Museum] and have promised to give a
lecture on the occasion. . . .

     " You like a good story. In the course of the anti-

papist fever at present raging, the walls have become
covered with inscriptions : ' No Popery ' No Wafer

Gods,' etc. etc. But the climax was reached last week,

when an indignant Protestant chalked up on the boards
                                    -- ' No
of  the  new  Exhibition  building           Remission  of Sins    '
                                                                 !

    " With best respects to Mrs. Patterson and my god

son, believe me ever, etc.                              E. F."

      The winter passed away pleasantly in London, not,

however, without its occasional trips to the country.
Thus, in the middle of December, he carried out the
intention, mentioned in the last extract, of going down
to Ipswich to give a gratis lecture for the benefit of the
Museum there, on its anniversary meeting.

     " Wc had a very jolly party," he said to Mr. Ramsay ;
"Van Voorst, R. Taylor, Bowerbank, old Wallich, Mitchell,

Lankester, and myself, went down to roar as London Lions.

                                                      2H
482                 MEMOIR OF    CHAP. XIII.

Henslow had to be installed as their new president, and
Imany jolly fellows were there.
                                 stayed with Ransome,

who gave a great dinner-party on Wednesday, when it

was pleasant to see the bishop, four or five clergymen,

and a bushel of naturalists, all dining at the table of a

Quaker chemist and druggist. The new bishop (Hinds)

is a very clever fellow, and a trump. . . . Yesterday

morning, Ransome got a couple of carriages, and a party

of us drove to Felixstowe, to see a section of the crag,
Iwhich was anxious to see, having- never been on that
Iformation.
             have secured a heap of good things for

the Museum. . . . Wife and baby all right.
                                              " Edward Forbes."

     In a letter to Mr. Thompson, he gives a pleasant

picture of how time was passing with him during part

of this spring :--
     "Feb. 3, 1851. --Dear T.,--Having a spare ten
minutes, I take up my pen to write a line in answer to
Iyour last.
             have had very little time for writing letters

lately ; even my evenings are spent, except once or
twice in the week, hard at work at home, --one of the

advantages of being a married man.
     " Besides survey works innumerable (we are now busy

Iwith the arrangement of our collections), have the

preparation of my weekly lectures at the Royal Institu
tion. A map of the distribution of marine animals for

the new edition of the Physical Atlas, the ' mollusca,' and

sundry other productions, some for fame and some for tin."

     In this extract he refers to a contribution to the new

edition of Mr. Keith Johnston's Physical Atlas. This
1831.  EDWAUD FORBES.  483

was his " Map of the Distribution of Marine Life," on

which he delineated the distribution of the fishes, mol-

lusca, and radiata of the sea into distinct geographical
provinces ; also what he called the homoiozoic belts or

bands enveloping the globe parallel to the equator,

characterized by the same or analogous species ; a table
of the zones of depth, with copious explanatory remarks
in the text and other two diagrams, one to illustrate the
doctrine of generic centres, the other to show how the
British seas were probably colonized by their present
races of molluscan and radiate inhabitants. The " sundry
other productions" seem to have consisted chiefly of
articles in the Literary Gazette, wherein his pen this year
was wonderfully prolific. Thus in the number of that

journal published on January 4th, he had an article on
Professor Sedgwick's Discourse on the Studies of the
University of Cambridge, and another on the Bon Gaul-
tier Ballads. Again, on the 11th of the same month, he
reviewed Cheever's "Whaling;" on the 18th, some
volumes on Physical Geography. On the 15th of Feb

ruary he wrote an article on some works bearing on the
reconciliation of the Chronology of Science and Revela-

Iftion, which ends thus :-- " these gentlemen [the authors

criticised in the article] persist in their endeavours to
astonish Geology, they could not do better than join the
Dean of York, a philosopher of similar opinions and
attainments, and by putting all three of their heads to
gether, they need not despair of forming a conglomerate,
such as will be unequalled by any puddingstone in the
long catalogue of known strata."1

                i Sec Literary Papers, by Edward Forbes. Reeve, 1855, p. 136.
484  MEMOIR OF EDWARD FORBES.  CHAP. XIII.

     His Friday evening discourse at the Royal Institution
was given on the 14th of February, the subject which
he chose this year being "Recent Researches into the
Natural History of the British Seas." In this lecture he
went over part of his old ground, showing the relation of
the present geological features of our seas to former

geological changes, and the extent to which recent
researches had increased the data from which the nature

of these changes could be deduced.

     On the 8th April, the weekly lectures at the same
place came to a close. On the 21st of the month,
Sir Charles Lyell, Professor Ramsay, Mr. Bristow, and
Edward Forbes met at Southampton, whence they crossed
to the Isle of Wight. The weather proved unusually wet,
but they succeeded in examining in detail the succession
of tertiary strata at Alum Bay. On the 24th they

reached Lymington, and then passed on to the cliff-sec
tions of Swanage. Two pleasant and instructive days
were passed among the Kimmeridge and Purbcck strata
of this coast-line, and on the 26th, Sir Charles and our

naturalist returned to London.
                      CHAPTER XIV.

    THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY AND THE SCHOOL OF MINES.

     During the spring of 1851, Edward Forbes found
ample employment in the preparation of the Museum
for its public opening. The Great Exhibition was to be
inaugurated in May, and, in anticipation of the event,

London had begun to freshen up her streets and public
buildings. The activity thus occasioned was working
such wonders as were achieved of old by that wizard
who, by the spell of his magic, changed

                                         The cobwebs on n castle wall
                                    To tapestry in lordly hall.

No place showed more evident tokens of the potency of
the charm than the Museum in Jermyn Street. The
" man and boy" that had so excited our naturalist's ire
were exchanged for a full complement of workmen.
Everything was hurried on, and the arrangement of the
fossils under Forbes and his assistants progressed rapidly.
The chaos that had reigned throughout the building for
so long gradually disappeared, and there emerged that
systematic order and that artistic grouping which con
tinue to delight the eye of every geologist.

     The Museum was opened by Prince Albert on Mon
day the 1 2th of May. Among the many visitors most
of the leading men of science in the metropolis were
486         MEMOIR OF                                                    CHAP. xrv.

present, and the meeting passed over apparently to the
entire satisfaction of Edward Forbes and his brother

officials. There was only one event that cast a gloom
over them ; Mr. Richard Phillips, who had for many

years been chemist to the Survey, died the day before.
His kindly unassuming disposition and his droll humour
had gained for him a cherished place in the esteem of all
his colleagues. With none was he a greater favourite
than with Sir Henry de la Beche, who had, indeed, such

a regard for him that, by the consent of all in Jerrnyn

Street, the sad intelligence was carefully concealed from
their chief until after the opening of the Museum. When
the truth was known, however, Sir Henry fell into a deep

melancholy from which, for a long while, nothing could

rouse him.

      In a former page of this Memoir
      aa                                                                 447), reference
                                                                    (p.
was made to an intention that the Museum of Practical

Geology, when arranged in the new building in Jermyn

Street, should be made the basis of an educational

establishment. Application had several times been made
to Parliament from some of the mining districts to
form school for the training of mining engineers, and
the teaching generally of those branches of science

necessary to the proper development of the mineral
resources of the country. The Museum of Practical
Geology, originated by Sir Henry de la Bechc, aud
augmented by the operations of the Geological Survey,

was pointed to as the most advantageous nucleus for

such  school. Accordingly, negotiations had been

pending for some time between the officials in Jermyn

Street and the Office of Woods. The opening of the
1851.  EDAVARD FORBES.  487

Museum had drawn public attention to the subject and

accelerated the arrangements, so that during the course
of the summer the lecturers were selected, the plan of

instruction organized, and all preparations made for com
mencing a School of Mines in the following November.
Mr. Ramsay, who held the office of Local Director of the
Geological Survey, and was also Professor of Geology in

University College, London, became Lecturer on Geology
and its practical capplications. Mr. Warrington Smyth,
mining geologist to the Survey, took the department of
Mining and Mineralogy; Mr. Hunt, that of Applied
Mechanics ; Dr. Lyon Playfair, that of Practical Chem
istry ; Dr. Percy, that of Metallurgy ; and Edward Forbes,
that of Natural History, as applied to Geology and the
Arts. With such a staff of efficient teachers, and with

the unequalled facilities offered by the Museum and its
laboratories, it was hoped that the ensuing winter would

bring up many students from the provinces, especially
from the mining districts, in addition to the numbers
that London could hardly fail to supply.

    It must not be thought, however, that, in entering

into these arrangements, Forbes had relinquished his
intention of making a stand for the Edinburgh profes

sorship as soon as it should become vacant. On the
contrary, even when most active in promoting the organ
ization of the School in Jermyn Street, he had little hope

that there would ever be such an increase of pay, and
diminution of official trammels, as to make the Lon

don post a comfortable one. So we find him looking

wistfully northwards, and begging for news as to the
probability of Professor Jameson's resignation. Thus in
488                    MEMOIR OP           CHAP. XIV.

the midst of the preparations for the opening of the

school in November, he found time to write to Mr.
Thompson that he had " had some kind letters from old

Jameson," from whose liveliness he augured no likelihood

of a resignation, and looked forward, therefore, to be at

least two years longer in London, --an anticipation that

was eventually fulfilled.

     The meeting of the British Association was held

this year in Ipswich.
    "I
        go  with Mrs.  Forbes to  Ipswich  on Thursday"  [3d
July],  he  wrote to   Professor  Ramsay,  " and remain  till

Monday afternoon. Playfair, Percy, and Hunt, I believe,

are going also. The Reds are to have a great dinner there

on Friday.

    " I have two or three communications to make, some
zoological. I want to exhibit my new map of marine

distribution, with my proposed Isozoic belts on it.

   I" To the Geological Section mean to make a state

ment respecting the result of my examination of the Crag

Echinoderms ; also a note calling attention to some of

Logan's discoveries, and one announcing the presence of

Devonian strata in the interior of Africa, north of the

equator."

     These papers were read with the subjoined titles :--

      1. On the discovery by Dr. Overwcg of Devonian
Rocks in North Africa.

     2. On the Echinodermata of the Crag.
     3. On a new species of Maclurea from the Lower
Silurian rocks of Canada.

     4. On some indications of the Molluscous Fauna of
the Azores and St. Helena.
1851.     EDWARD FORBES.                             489

       5. On a new Testacean discovered during the voyage

of H. M. S. Rattlesnake.

       On the 4th of the month the Red Lions celebrated

their anniversary as usual. After dinner a new red lion's

head, apparently in convulsions of laughter, was placed

behind the president's chair, which was filled by Edward

Forbes. The Prince of Canino sat on his right hand, and

around him were many fellow- labourers in science, who

had not met since the previous Association Meeting.

     He still retained his professorship of botany at King's
College. After the lectures of this summer were over,

he went with Mrs. Forbes to Paris, and remained there a

fortnight, his chief object being to make inquiries on
the spot among the scientific schools of Paris for the

purpose of guiding the lecturers at the new School of

Mines.

       In the beginning of September, Mrs. Forbes accom

panied him to the Isle of Man, whence he went alone, on

Survey duty, to Ireland. To Mr. Thompson, he wrote :--

                                          " Douglas, Isle op Man, September 7, 1851.

    " Dear T. -- You will see by the above address that I
am now in another quarter -- nearer you than Paris. I

am availing myself of a short holiday to show my wife

Imy native (is) land. To Paris went, partly on survey
Ibusiness, and partly because got an invite for self and

...better half, on account of my being a sectional committee
man of the Exhibition     I have to go to Dublin from

this, and possibly then for two or three days to Jukes',
at Cork. Then I return to London to prepare my lec
                                  Playfair and I begin in
....tures for the Mining School.
November  Ever,                                  E. Forbes."
490                                    MEMOIR OF              CUAP. XIV.

     Of his visit to Ireland the following particulars have

been furnished by Mr. Jukes :--
     " My wife and I," he says, " were living at that time

in the old vicarage of Monkstown, near Cork, and after

doing some little work in the Paloeontological Collections
in the Museum of Irish Industry, in Dublin, he came down

to me there to examine the fossils of Cork Harbour and

the neighbourhood. He was then busy with his great

work on the British Mollusca, and especially on that part
of it relating to the Limacidce. At that time he always

carried a tin box in his pocket with half-a-dozen fat slugs

in on the description of which he was then engaged.
a it,

                                    ;
The vicarage, being an old damp house, was well adapted

for slug preserve the kitchen and pantry were every

night baited with pieces of turnip, or other delicacies

suited to the limaceous appetite, and the prey diligently
secured in the morning. Our Irish servant was horribly

disgusted at these sluggish propensities of our guest."

     They next visited one or two interesting localities for

fossils among the rest Kiltorcan near Bally hale, in the Co.
Kilkenny, where a remarkable series of plants had lately
     ;

                       by
been discovered James Flanagan, the fossU collector

of the Irish Survey, who was examining the district with

Mr. A.    Wy"leAyft(esrincinespGecetoinloggictahle  Surveyor   to the Cape
Colony).                                            quarries  in which the
fossils had been found," continues Mr. Jukes, " we pro

ceeded to Flanagan's quarters to examine the treasures

he had there ready arranged for our inspection.
     " They were certainly
                                       very remarkable        group
                                                              Forbes
          a
                        a
                                 a

                                                               by
                                                                                                                       ;
fronds two feet across of large fern, since called

(provisionally) Cyclopteris, with the specific name of
1861.             EDWARD FORBES.      491

Hibemica ; several stems of Stigmaria, Catamites, and

Lepidodendron, or other similar plants, and a shell like

our Anodon, three inches across, to which Forbes after

wards, in spite of my remonstrances, insisted on affixing

my own inharmonious name as a specific designation.
     " He exhibited and described them the following year

(1852) at the meeting of the British Association, in
Belfast, but, owing to the want of all system which then

prevailed in the Survey publications, and the prohibition

against making known our discoveries, except through

these publications, no proper figures and descriptions of

these fossils have ever been published. After a day

spent in the examination of the organic remains, Forbes

Iand caught a train for Kilkenny, where we slept, and the

next day went on to Kildare, where we parted, he for

England, and I to return to my work near Monkstown."

       On October 7th he left Dublin for England, but, be

fore sailing, found time to write a note to Mr. Thompson.
       "Dear T.,--Your letter of the 28th has just been
Imet by me here.
                  have been in Ireland since the 27th,

and to-night go to England to meet my wife at Liver

pool, and go to London on Wednesday.
       I" have been on a survey with Jukes in counties Cork
Iand Kilkenny geologizing.
                            hope Jukes will have some
important matter --very new--on Irish Geology to lay

before the Belfast meeting. He has determined to do so.

    I" At the same time have been slug-hunting. . . .

What Lyell wanted you to do at Lough Neagh with the

willows, was, doubtless, to get a good section of the

thickest trunks, and count their age. Macadam would

direct you best as to geological deficiencies about Belfast.
492                         MEMOIR OF          CHAP. XIV.

But before going through some steady geological work

in the field, I dare scarcely advise you to write papers.
If you are in earnest about geologizing, take two or

three months' hard work, learning the trade with the

geological surveyors. To understand rocks in the field

it is necessary to do this, or at least accompany some

able practical geologist for many excursions.
     "
         1  must  stop  at  present,  having  many things to  do

before starting. --Ever,                      E. Forbes."

     On 14th October, after getting back to Jermyn

IStreet, he writes to Mr. Ramsay, " am now settled

down here for the winter. There is no show of pupils

yet, but we must make an effort as soon as the Exhibition

is over, and when Playfair, etc., will be free for home

...affairs. The governor comes up to-morrow to see the
last of the great show. Smyth is here.         I have just

finished Hitchcock's Religion of Geology, a very remark
able book, written in unaffected earnestness, so much so,

that, even where he seems lost in theological prejudices,

Ione reads with pleasure. It is the best book have yet

seen for putting into the hands of sincerely pious people
who have a dread of geology. --Ever,
                                              E. Forbes."

     The School of Mines opened on the 6 th November

with an inaugural discourse from Sir Henry de la Beche.
Each of his colleagues also delivered an introductory
lecture ; and, though Forbes at first had resolved " to
begin plump with no introductory," he yet conformed
to the general practice. In writing to Mr. Haiusay he

thus clnonicles the doings in Jerniyn Street :-- " About

the Museum and School of Mines ; on the whole we
1851.            EDWARD FORBKS.  493

have done as well as could be expected. There arc

seven bona fide matriculated students entered for the

two years, and twenty or so occasionals, chiefly soldiers.

Besides these we have a few ladies and philosophers

whose tickets have been backed by one or other of us,

so as to give them free admission to all the lectures.

Add to these about a dozen pupils of the School ol

Design, who, according to resolution, are admitted free,

on being recommended by their director. Playfair and
I lecture to about fifty people so far, including some of
                 I had fifty-eight yesterday at my
our colleagues.

lecture. The number appears to fluctuate, but we shall

see. Hunt had thirty-six this morning, and that seems

about his average. There are a few more occasional

entries for chemistry and natural history than for

mechanical philosophy. The audience is highly intelli

gent, both male and female, and the mining pupils seem

an excellent class of young men. To some extent avo

are fighting with disadvantages, for the Woods and

Forests, or rather Lord Seymour, do nothing to push us

on ; the districts that memorialized for mining schools

have not sent a single pupil ; and the uncertainty ol

the plans of the Exhibition people respecting the appro

priation of the surplus, prevents men coming forward,

and unhinges the public mind. Until that is settled,
we don't know exactly where we are. All of us here

are of accord that this should be the nucleus of any

great economical college, such as is talked about, and

that, if we don't form part of the plan, we must go to

the wall. Lyell, as a commissioner, has had a private

conversation expressly on the subject with me, and 1
·194      MEMOIR OF                        CIUP. XIV.

dined quietly with Sir James Clark for the same purpose,
Lord Ashburton being there. Both Lyell and Sir James

entertain the right view on the subject. Lyell is espe

cially anxious, as he considers himself pledged by his

former writings to oppose the spending of the surplus
money in architectural displays, and to maintain that it

should be spent in endowments and scholarships. Our

building enlarged (not in the front, but in useful rooms

at the sides) would fully serve all the purpose. . . .

Of my lecture, though reported at length in the Chronicle,
IHerald, and Post, I have not got a copy.
                                           forgot to buy

any the day it was delivered, and could not get one the

next day. But it is printing in full at Clowes', and I
shall send you it as soon aa I get it. My themes were :--

     " 1. Why Natural History is a part of the education

of a school of mines.
     " 2. Why it ought to be a part of all education.
     " 3. How it is linked up with geology, and their

mutual obligations.

    " 4. Howa minute knowledge of it may bear upon prac

tical and money -making inquiries, illustrated by examples.
     " 5. Its relations to the Arts.

   I" like your plan much. Playfair's lecture was ex

cellent, and did him infinite credit. Hunt's very good.
-- Ever,
                     E. Forbes."

     He had fully resolved to carry into the Natural
History Class of the School of Mines the principle of
field-excursions, which he had introduced with so much

success among the botanical students of King's College.
In the course of his lecture he remarked, " In con

ducting the business of this class, I look forward to the
1851.  EDWAKD FORBES.            495

holding of field-excursions, regarding them to be quite
as essential as lectures for the instruction of the student,

who, to benefit by his studies, must become a practical
fossilist, and learn to observe carefully fossils in situ,

and appreciate on the spot the evidence afforded by
their associations. During the progress of our winter
courses this can be done effectually in the neighbourhood

of London, or by means of the facilities of transport
Iafforded by lines of railroad.
                                 trust that, before the

end of this session, a compact band of undaunted inves
tigators, belted, strapped, and bag-bearing, armed with

stout hammers and sharp chisels, under the veteran
generalship of our Director-in Chief, and officered by
my mineral and geological colleagues and myself, will
make the rocks shake and yield up their treasures for

many a mile round the great metropolis."
     But these bright anticipations were never, during

Forbes's connexion with the establishment, adequately

fulfilled. The disadvantages under which the School

started continued to hinder its further progress, and as
year succeeded year, matters showed no symptom of

improvement. Forbes found himself compelled to un
dergo all the fatigue of lecturing, without the counter

balancing stimulus which a well-attended class never
fails to impart. His lectures, that should have attracted

a numerous body of students, were given to rows of

almost empty benches, and the tones that were wont to
delight many a brilliant audience, here returned to him
well-nigh void. And yet the natural history lectureship
was more popular than most of the others, so that his

colleagues fared even worse than he did. In short, it
49C                  MEMOIR OF        CHAP. XIV.

soon became sufficiently evident that the scheme of

forming a great mining school in London had as yet

failed to attain the success that had been anticipated.

     Some attributed this result to the choice of London

as the site of the school; others to the length and expen-

siveness, or to the too comprehensive character of the

curriculum of study ; while some looked upon the whole

school as an instance of arrested development, and re

garded its success as impossible until the arrangements

which had been liberally conceived should be worthily

carried out. But to whatever cause it might be due,

there was no doubt of the fact. Our naturalist's an

ticipations, never very sanguine, had yet been griev

ously disappointed. He knew the possibilities of the

Jermyn Street Museum, and used to say, that it might

be made an almost unrivalled school of geology and the

cognate sciences. So strongly, indeed, was he impressed

with this conviction, that he sometimes found himself

balancing in his own mind the advantages of the School
of Mines with those of the Edinburgh professorship ;

and it was perhaps hard to say which at times kicked

the beam, for the London appointment had not only its

a

                                          it

                                                                    it,

                                                                  it
                                                                            it

                                                                                        is
own prospective success to recommend  but was

fortified by all the ties of the various friendships which

residence of nine years in the metropolis had now
Ifwoven around him.
                     the School of Mines had become

what Edward Forbes wished       should become,

possible that he might never have left London, but have

endeavoured to work out there the schemes he had been

reserving for Edinburgh. But when he had at length

fairly to confess that the London School had fallen far
1851.  EDWARD FORBES.                          497

short of his anticipations, and that there seemed to hiin

but a feeble chance of its ultimate success, he abandoned

all hope of finally settling in London, and returned with
fresh eagerness to his first love, -- the professorship in his
Alma Mater.

       The winter of 1851, however, witnessed only the

inauguration of the School of Mines. Every allowance
was made for the difficulties and hindrances almost in

separable from the early career of a new institution ;
and thus the lectures were given hopefully, in the pro
spect of larger classes and greater usefulness when the
School should gradually come to be better known.

     One of the most useful features of the School was

the organization of a set of evening lectures for artisans,
on the different branches of science taught by the pro
fessors. In the spring of this year a course of six lectures

was given, that by Forbes (16th February) having for
its title, " Why Fossils are Collected and Exhibited, Ex

plained." The same course was repeated in April and
May. Next year, however, instead of repeating the
lectures, one or two of the professors gave a short course
of instruction, each in his own department of science ;
and this plan was found to be attended with such ex
cellent results, that it has continued ever since. On the

day of issue, the tickets are so eagerly bought, that in

less than half an hour the whole number is disposed of,
and on the lecture evenings, the theatre is filled with as

attentive and intelligent an audience as any to be found

in London.                                     of the
     The close of the year saw the completion  contri

third volume of the British Mollusca. He also

       2I
498  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XIV.

buted scientific papers to various journals, iu particular
to the Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society, the
Art Journal, and the Literary Gazette. His delightful
article on " Shell-fish, their Ways and Works," was pub
lished in the first number of the new series of the West

minster Review (January 1852). Many of his literary
articles were reviews on books of travel, such as Neale's

Syria, Christmas's Mediterranean, Squier's Nicaragua,
Mundy's Australia. So that his pen, whether grave or
gay, elaborating scientific description, or dashing off
articles and squibs for the literary journals, was seldom

wholly idle.
     So again, in work and hope, another winter passed

pleasantly away. Not, however, without its socialities,
its soir6es and dinners : the annual festivity of the
" Royal Hammerers," when the Survey geologists came
to London for the winter, with their songs written for
the occasion ; the monthly Red Lion meetings, with
Forbes in the chair, and the table girt round with
applauding brethren ; the anniversary of the Geological
Society, and of societies and clubs, scientific, philoso

phical, or otherwise, without end.
     When Easter came, he took a short holiday in Bel

gium, " with the hope," he said, " of getting London fog
out of his head." With his friends of the Geological
Society -- Prestwich, Sharpe, Austen, and Morris -- he
rambled over the country under the guidance of Du-
mont, who pointed out on the ground the leading
features of his great map of Belgium. After seeing
these, and noting not a little that bore importantly
upon questions that were engaging the attention of the
1852.  EDWARD FORBES.  499

Geological Survey at this time, he re-crossed the Chan
nel, and found that during the fortnight of his absence,
" a mountain of letters " had accumulated in his little

three-cornered den in Jermyn Street.
      The return to London was, of course, a return to

hard work, for which, however, his short Continental

ramble, terminating on the 18th of April, had somewhat
braced him. And yet, on the 8 th of May following, he

Iwrote to Mr. Jukes --" am nearly fagged out with

lecturing, etc., but, thank Providence, the Museum

lectures have just come to an end for the present."
     The lectures at King's College, however, now re-com

menced, lasting nearly all the rest of the summer.
      On the 29 th of August, his daughter was born, and

very soon thereafter he left London for Ireland, partly
for the British Association meeting, which was to
assemble this year in Belfast, and partly to inspect some
palaeontological localities with Sir Henry de la Beche and

Mr. Jukes. The papers he read at this meeting were --

      1. On the Fossils of the Yellow Sandstone of the

south of Ireland.

     2. On a Species of Sepiola new to Britain.
     3. On a New Map of the Distribution of Marine
Life, and on the Homoiozoic Belts.
     Referring to this meeting, Mr. Jukes writes : " The
Red Lion dinner that year was one rather above the
average for fun and jollity, the Prince of Canino being
especially remarkable for his roar on the occasion, until
at last the hotel establishment fairly broke down under

an apparently unexpected demand for coffee.
     " After the meeting, Forbes and Sir Henry, with my
500  MEMOIR OF                              CHAP. XIV.

wife, her friend, and myself, started for Dingle, going by
way of Dublin, Limerick, and Tralee. We stayed two

or three days in Dingle, Forbes and I driving out each

day to the neighbourhood of the coast about Ferriter's
Cove and Dunquin, and Sir Henry, whose legs had then
begun to fail him, sailing round in a small cutter which

Ihappened luckily to be there at the time. Forbes and

made large collections of the Upper Silurian fossils, that

occur so abundantly along the extreme western shore,

Iand got my first view of a section which has given me,

and others of the Survey, many an hour of hard work
and puzzling thought since then. We could neither of
us help uttering an exclamation of wonder, as we walked
from near Ferriter's Cove, up the gently sloping lull at
the back of Clogher Head, and saw first one peak, and
then another, of the Blasket Islands rising over the crest
of the hill before us. We had not previously caught a
glimpse of the islands, and as we had the sea just below
us on the right, and knew that the coast there ran on

the whole nearly north and south, we could not imagine
for the moment where this lofty land could be, till a few

steps more disclosed the whole group rising steeply up
from the sea into sharp peaks and ridges, with the white

foam creaming and mantling round their base.1
      " The last evening we were on this shore, we had seen

Sir Henry's little boat pass through the Sound into
Dingle Bay, and the wind fell to a calm as we were
struggling over the ridge at the back of Dunquin, under

   i Sketches of eome of this scenery will  the Maps of the Geological Survey of
bo found in the Explanations to accom       Ireland.

pany Sheets ICO una 161, 171 and 172 of
EDWARD FORBES.  501

tho weight of our fossil-bags. It was eight o'clock when

we got back to Dingle to dinner, and there we found no
tidings of Sir Henry. We were getting anxious, when
at last he himself turned up about ten o'clock. He had
been becalmed in the Bay, and only got in at last in a

canoe that they luckily fell in with. In traversing one
of the small villages perched on the slopes of the hills
that fall towards the Atlantic, south of Dunquin, Forbes
said that it put him in mind of Some of the villages in
the Greek islands. Each cabin was perched on a little
patch of ground surrounded by a small fence of stones

and separated from the rest by a deep little gully or

stream, the path through the village forming a perfect

maze of corners and ups and downs.

     "Having seen what we could in the time at our
disposal, Forbes and Sir Henry went across to Yalentia

Iin the boat, while the ladies and prepared to car it to

Killarney and Glengariff, where we were to meet again.

Sir Henry, as usual, was bustling about as well as his

growing infirmities would let him, making arrangements
for us as well as himself, inquiring the distance, and so
on, and often repeating, ' The road has a good bottom, a
good bottom.' ' Well then,' said Forbes, at last, looking

over slyly to me, 'there's the less occasion for any bustle
about it.'"

     Before the end of September he had returned to
London. As most of the year, owing to the Jermyn
Street lectures, and the press of Museum work, had been
spent in town, there had accumulated a good deal of
palaeontological arrears in the field which it was desirable,

if possible, to clear off this year. His colleague, Mr.
502  MEMOIR OP                       CHAP. XIV.

Bristow, had been at work on the lower cretaceous rocks

of the Sussex coast, and the sections there now needed

to be visited by the palaeontologist. Forbes was likewise

anxious to follow up his previous investigations among the
tertiary deposits of Hampsliire, so that there was plenty of

field work to keep him a month or two out of London.

      On the 30 th September, he writes from the Museum
to Mr. Jukes :--

     "After three days' bustle and bother, we got our

traps in Harewood Square packed, and sent a small

army of forty packages to Tilbury's warehouse. Yes
Iterday at three, carried off my wife and family and
transported them to Winchester, where I left them under
Isafe and kind charge this morning.
                                     have work to wind

up at the Museum, so must be in town for three or four

days, and then start solus to Hastings to look at the

sections there for Bristow. Thence I shall go to Bognor

and Brackloshum, and, after stopping a day or two at

Winchester, at the end of next week to superintend my
daughter's christening, will join Sir Henry in the Isle of

Wight."
     The Isle of Wight remained his head-quarters for the

rest of the year. At Freshwater, on the western shores
of that island, he spent some time with Sir Henry, and
gives an amusing account of his doings in a letter to
Mr. Reeks, the secretary at the Museum :-- " The Gover

nor aml 1 arc daily at work here, flanked by Gibbs,

Cotton, and two small boys. The Governor rides on his

pony, a very quiet beast, which, however, is believed by

his master to have an irresistible propensity to leap over

logs of wood when he sees them. It is true that he has
1852.     EDWARD FORBES.                        503

never done so yet, but then he always stops to look at

them, Sir Henry says with the above-mentioned intent.

If I stop to gather a blackberry, the pony stops, and

won't go on till I have done. The Governor comes out

with his pockets full of excellent prawns and sandwiches,

which he distributes all round about two o'clock p. M.

Idaily. It was just as well came down, since he had

made Gibbs leave this place long before it had been pro

perly collected or examined. We have been most suc

Icessful, and hope to turn out a very fine and interesting

section, better than any done previously of this spot, and

that is saying a deal after the excellent work of Prest-

wich and Dr. Wright."

     Agaiu, on reaching Brixton, he wrote to the same

Icorrespondent, --" Bristow and migrated in a phaeton

from Freshwater on Saturday, passing Gibbs emigrating
with goods, chattels, a wife and five children, in a don

key-cart. Gibbs did the voyage in three hours. We

Ileft the Governor hearty -- think really better in health

---and busy about his tumulus, in which he has been

digging for a week, and finding --nothing.
    " It is raining and blowing most abominably. Never

theless, in spite of the weather, we made some discoveries

yesterday, that escaped everybody who has been here

before."

                       " Brixtow, Isle op Wight, 21th October.
       " My dear Ramsay, --I am sitting beside
                                                and

five cats. The pussies were confided to his care by his

sister when she left, and he feeds them all on a clean

napkin twice a day, with the most charming gravity.

The cats will certainly commit suicide and go to the
504.  MEMOIR OP                                 CHAP. XIV.

diggins when he departs. The weather is horrid, so the

cats are really amusing.
     " We have been very busy at the tertiary sections,

Iand cuttings of the Wealden, and, hope, will be able to
Ishow that there is a thing or two undiscovered. expect

next month's work at Whitecliffe will develop sundry

Igerminating ideas. On these points must write to you

more at length. Gibbs is working famously, but is not
I Ias well as could wish.
                                  am very anxious that our

tertiary collections should be fine, since there are such

very fine private ones in London.

    " I fetch my wife and bairns to Sandown on Monday

-- leave them there and go to- town to see to matters at

the Museum for four or five days, and to hear Playfair's
Ilecture, then return here.
                             will be at the first meeting

of the Geological ; Sedgwick is to hold forth on a new

classification of the Caradocs."

     Mrs. Forbes and the children remained with him at

Sandown till the beginning of February 1853. It was

during this winter that he worked out those novel and

deeply interesting points in the classification of the ter

tiary formations, which threw a new light upon that part

of British Geology. The detailed memoir on this sub
ject, however, he did not live to complete ; it was finished

by Mr. Austen and Mr. Bristow after his death.

The weather during the greater part of his stay in

the island was cold and very wet, and he used to work

on in mud and rain. This exposure contributed not a

little to impair his health, while one of his assistants con

tracted a rheumatic ailment that confined him for many

weeks. The interest and novelty of the discoveries,
EDWARD FORBES.  505

however, usually kept them out of doors in spite of the
inclemency of the weather.

     On November 12th, he writes to Mr. Ramsay :--
    " It is a very wet day ; raining and blowing ; and

Iwe cannot go out. No loss of time, for can get more

fossil work done in a day here than in three in London.

Before setting to the specimens before me, however, I

will write a short screed anent our doings among the

tertiaries.
      " Bristow has told you of the curious fresh-water post-

tertiary deposit which we found on the cliffs at Collwell.

It is pretty clearly of the same age with the newer ele

phant-gravel of these parts, and the same thing with the

Istuff in the Dorsetshire coombs, on which have many

notes. The top of Headon Hill is capped by a great

esker of gravel of very different age, and much older.
      " Our grand ' find,' however, concerns the Eocenes, or

rather the fluvio-marine portion of them. You are aware
that they have hitherto been divided into

                " A. Upper Fresh-water and Estuary.
                 " B. Upper Marine.
                 " C. Lower Fresh-water, etc.

C. resting on the Headon Hill white sand, which is re

garded as part of the Barton series.

     " Now it has been shown by more observers than one
that A belongs to the same series as C, and B is only the

result of temporary interrupting conditions. Moreover,
Prestwich, Lyell, and others have shown that A, B, and
C are all essentially parts of the Eocene series below, and
not, what the French have maintained, a distinct series,
506  MEMOIR OP                       CHAP. XIV.

according to some, forming a stage of the Eocene ;
according to others, constituting the Lower Miocene.

     " Worked (and most accurately worked), as these beds
had been by Prestwich, and, in part (very accurately
also), by Wright, not to speak of the number of pages

Iwritten by great stars and small about them, certainly

did not expect that we should do more than add some

minutiae of interesting details ; that a new classification

Iof them could come out, certainly never anticipated.
INevertheless, believe we have got hold of a great step

in British, if not in European Eocene Geology.
    " It is quite true that the fresh-water and estuary beds

above the ' upper marine,' are repetitions of those below,

palaeontologically and geologically. But this is true only
in part. The old ' upper fresh-water' is really divisible

into two series of strata, the uppermost of which is more

distinct from the lower, than the latter is from the beds
below the ' upper marine.' This has been entirely over

looked."

    Again, on the 19th of the same month, "The weather
here is positively hideous, nevertheless, knee deep in mud,

wc keep advancing, and very satisfactorily. There is
some pleasure in working out a point that has bothered

Prestwich, D'Archiac, and Dumont, and muddled every

body else. Dumont was nearest the mark, probably, after
all. But everybody has been led astray by the very
natural fancy that what they saw at Whitecliff was what

Ithey saw at Headon. Since wrote last we have found

a remarkable, and, in some respects, better section for
true upper beds than Whitecliff ; one at St. Helen's that

seems to have never been described.  Wc are waiting
1852.  EDWARD FORBES.            507

for favourable skies and tides. The post-tertiaries here

are also exceedingly interesting."

    He writes to Mr. Reeks on 27th November :--

   I" am sorry to hear of the state of the School ; not

that it is really so bad, but that, in order to make out

our case for a continuance, we ought to be able to show
Ia positive increase.
                       look upon the Turks as accidents

(I hope not unprofitable oties), and matriculated ama
teurs, as very good in their way, but not the class of

men for whom the School can claim public support.

There must be a strong push made for next session.

When you can spare a few minutes, you would oblige
me much by a line respecting the nature of the proposi

tions for going a-head debated at the Council. What are

Playfair's notions now ?
       " You should catch old Z
                                 some fine day in the

. Museum, lock him up, and make a hostage of him for

the Turkish debt.
      " The weather has become suddenly fine to-day. We

hope it will keep so. The deluge is over. My son and

heir's second birthday was yesterday : Bristow, Miss B.,

and Aveline, dined with us to celebrate it. Bristow

brought him a magnificent microscopic donkey, and I

presented him with a Noah's ark. He opened it and let

out Noah, which is the reason why the rain stopped.

You are aware that Noah did not come out of the ark

until after the deluge was over.
     " My work here is far too important to quit."
     The Council of the Geological Society had determined

to propose Forbes at the next general meeting for the

office of President of the Society -- a very great honour
SO 8                MEMOIR OF            CHAP. XIV.

to be conferred on so young a man.       It is to this he

refers in the subjoined letter :--

                    " Sandown, Isle of Wiqut, 19(A December  1852.
      I--" Dear
          Ramsay,               should have written before   since

you came to town, but know how busy you must have

been Thanks for congratulations about the Presidency,
but barrin' the honour, the office is a deal more trouble

some than pleasant, and, say what folks will, costs the
Iholder, or at least ought to do so.
                                      have done my best

          it,

                    I

                            it
to shirk  though feel the compliment very much,

especially coming as did from the old hands in the

first instance. My knowledge of the ins and outs of the

Geological Society, acquired when was assistant SecreI
tary, will enable me to get through the business part
more easily than otherwise could. For the last three
      '

         I
                 I
years, too, have been hard at work, during extra hours,

at the Mollusca' book--now at an end, or at least with

the index in the press, besides sundry doings for the

periodical press, necessary for pulling up deficiencies in

the exchequer.   shall start the new year clear of debt,
II
              a
             I
and with few pounds in hand, and intend to do no

more extra work than may be recreation, so that after
all shall have more time in hand for duties of all kinds
                                a
than hitherto.                                                  ;a
      " have heaps of survey materials to work up, andII

difficult set of lectures for the first part of my course

but with my evenings free at home, can master them

I ifall in good health, and this air has, hope, given me        a
stock for the session.

     " propose to go to Ireland in the middle of next
month, and to remain here writing up, etc., until go.
                                                             I
1852.  EDWARD FORBES.     509

I wish to be settled in London before my lectures begin
Ion the 8th of February.
                          want Gibbs to work for ten

days at the other side of the island, on a very important

job, which he alone can be trusted to do.

    " I shall leave wife and babbies here when in Ireland,

and fetch them after they have all fattened considerably.

II must look out for a house as go through town."

    He thus sums up the results of those busy weeks :--

                                                                 " Sandown, 11th January 1853.

    " Dear Ramsay, -- I arrived here last night after

being with Gibbs for a week, finishing up the other end
of the island. The results are most satisfactory.

    I" At length have succeeded in examining bed after
Ibed, the whole series of fluvio-marines ; might almost

say without the break of an inch.

    " There are minute points, it is true,--all, however,

purely palaeontological, that would require a long spell
of dry weather before they could be got at. But the

geological and zoo-geological evidence is perfect; the
order of superposition and perfect conformity of evcry

bed are now made out without possibility of question.
There will be more light thrown upon the Upper Eocenes

(or Lower Miocenes, as the French will call them) by
these sections than by any in Europe, and they will form

a scale and test for the continental ones. They will also,

Iif do not greatly mistake, settle the question about

their nomenclature, and definitely place the upper fluvio-

marines, and the corresponding strata of France and

Belgium, in the Eocene series. Gibbs has worked like a

brick, and he can tell you that our work has been no
joke, with such weather as it has been done in.
510  MEMOIR OF                           CHAP. XIV.

     " With all the beds fresh in my mind, and so familiar

Ithat could tell each by the mere colour, or rather shade
Iof colour of mud in a ditch, thought it would be useful

to go over the Freshwater peninsula, and trace in the
boundaries of the denudation of these Upper Eocenes,

and the superficial area occupied by the Headon fluvio-
Imarines. This may save Bristow some trouble.
                                               have
Ialso traced, as far as believe it is possible, the boun

daries of the area occupied by the Hempstead beds. Tell

Bristow of this.

    " I shall be in town next week on my way to Jukes.
IMrs. F. and family will remain here whilst am away.

I shall so arrange my Irish journey as to have three or

four days after my return here before my lectures com

Imence, in order that may avail myself of the oppor

tunity of looking to certain points in the Whitecliff

Isections, about which require to see Edwards' collec

tion in London first.

   "I am writing up my account of these tertiaries

most vigorously.1                        She and my little ones are
     " Wife sends best regards.

plump and thriving. Hoping to see you soon, and to have

the pleasure of being introduced to Mrs. Ramsay, ever,

dear R, very sincerely yours,            Edward Forbes."

     Here, perhaps, better than elsewhere, just as he has

completed his investigations in the Isle of Wight, and is

on the eve of starting again for London, there to resume

his post at the Museum and School of Mines, may be

   i It has been already stated that he  was finished after his death by Mr. Aus-
did not live to complete his account of  ten and Mr. Bristow, and published in
theso Isle of Wight strata, but that it  the Memoirs of Che Geological Survey.
1852.           EDWARD FORBES.                  511

inserted an interesting letter written by him while still

at Sandown, to the late Dr. Drew of Southampton, on
the subject of museums and the teaching of the natural

sciences.1 Some eight years previously, a gentleman of
the name of Hartly had left the bulk of a large fortune to
the town of Southampton, for the promotion of the study
of Natural History, Anatomy, Antiquities, and classical

and Oriental literature. Forbes was applied to for his

advice, and the following was his reply to Dr. Drew :--

                                                                " Sandown, 27th December 1852.

     " My dear Sir,-- You ask me in what way the study

of Natural History might be most effectually promoted

by an institution such as that intended to be founded at

Southampton.
      " The question is one to which a satisfactory answer

Icannot readily be given. It is one over which have

often pondered with much anxiety, believing that the
study of Natural History will sooner or later become
general in this country, and be accepted as a necessary
branch of general education. Some accurate and sys
tematic knowledge of the natural productions of our

planet, and of its geological structure and history, should
surely be possessed by every well-educated person, and
ought to be taught to youths of all classes. Moreover,

there can scarcely be a better, certainly not a more en

gaging exercise for the logical faculties than the practice
of Natural History observation, and the distinguishing
and defining of affinities and analogies.

     " At present the systematic teaching of any portion

lectiurTehio "  letlcr partly anticipated  his  succeeding session (1853-4) of the School
                On tho Educational uses     of  of Mines, but is sufficiently distinct to
                                                merit a place in this Memoir.
Museums," with which he opened the
512  MEMOIR OP                 CHAP. XIV.

of Natural History in this country is ahnost entirely

confined to the medical, the engineering, and mining

schools. It is made a branch of professional and not of

general study. The popular lectures given at mechanic's
institutions are almost always of too isolated a character,

or consist of too few in sequence, to do more than excite

curiosity or interest for the moment, however able the

lecturer may be.

    "It appears to me that there are three modes by

which, taken in combination, a knowledge of Natural

History may be to a considerable extent diffused by a

well-conducted scientific institution.

     " 1st, By courses of lectures-- no course consisting

of fewer than twelve lectures, nor including more themes

than can be fairly illustrated within its limits. Longer

courses, say of twenty or thirty lectures, would be more

beneficial. They could be given most effectively during

the spring and summer months, and should be varied by
Ioccasional field excursions.
                               need scarcely insist that

to make such lectures truly useful, the very ablest men

should, if possible, be employed to give them The mere

' popular lecturer ' is too often a man who gets up a sub

ject with which he has little or no practical acquaintance.

However pleasing his discourse may sound to the car, it

makes but little impression on the mind of his hearers.

The more eminent the lecturer (as an original investi
gator), provided always that he has the gift of telling his

story clearly and fluently, the more permanently inter
ested will his audience be.

     " 2d, By instruction delivered to limited classes,

say of twelve or fewer persons at a time, in the form of
1852.    EDWARD FORBES.  513

demonstrations. The principles of Natural History, the

methods of study and manipulation in the several de

partments of the science, may be thus effectively taught,

provided the teachers be able and 'practical naturalists.

I foresee much difficulty for some years to come in

the procuring of competent instructors. Even among

reputed naturalists there are few persons sufficiently

well-grounded to undertake the office. Only by well-

remunerated, permanent posts, could the right men be

secured. The duties, however, might be combined with

those concerning the charge of the Museum.

    " 3d, By what I may call eye-instruction, conveyed

by aid of a well-regulated museum, a department of the

institution absolutely necessary for the successful pro

secution of teaching either by lecture or demonstration.

Much, however, may be done in the way of imparting

knowledge by museum arrangements alone, but very

rarely do we find this systematically attempted. Pro

vincial museums are too often ambitious attempts at

general collections, and, necessarily, failures. Too many

of them are little better than curiosity-shops. In their

best aspect they are, with very few exceptions, far

more costly and far less useful than they ought
Ito be.
         would have a provincial natural history

museum to consist of three departments, for which

three spacious rooms, if properly constructed, would

suffice.

    "1. A local collection, illustrative of the zoology,

botany, and geology of the county or district. This,

if done with judgment, would attract visitors from far

and near, and be equally interesting to rcsidentcrs and

         2K
514     MEMOIR OP                 CHAP. XIV.

strangers. Southampton is peculiarly well situated for
the forming of a valuable local collection.

    " 2. A teaching collection, consisting of carefully

selected, well-arranged, and thoroughly labelled types
of the classes, orders, families, and leading genera of
animals and plants, of the series of geological formations

and their characteristic fossils, and of minerals -- no

superfluous specimens to be admitted.

    " 3. A miscellaneous collection, including fine or

rare specimens of exotic productions not necessary for

the teaching collection, remarkable curiosities, and ethno

logical illustrations. There might be included, to render

this division useful as well as curious, a classified trade-

collection, displaying the natural productions or sources
Iof production used in commerce.
                                  may illustrate what
I mean by referring to the admirable cases illustrative

of imports into the port of Liverpool exhibited last year

in the Crystal Palace.

     " In offering these suggestions respecting a museum,

I have confined my remarks to Natural History, but I

hope that the department of Antiquities will also re
ceive full attention, and that the local antiquities be kept

distinct from the miscellaneous specimens.

   I" hope most earnestly that the Corporation of

Southampton will found an institution adapted to serve

as an example and model for other places. This is a
grand opportunity. -- Believe me, my dear Sir, very truly

yours,             Edward Forbes."

     During the sojourn among the tertiaries of the Isle
of Wight, Forbes had found time for very little literary
1S53.        EDWARD FORBES.             515

or scientific work, save the geology of the island, and

the preparation of the last number of the fourth and

concluding volume of the History of British Mollmca.
That great work was now completed-- a monument to

his scientific knowledge and his industry, as well as

those of his coadjutor, Mr. Hanley. He now resolved

to return to the volume of the Natural History of the
European Seas, part of which had been printed, though

two-thirds had still to be written. Yet in the end ho

never found time to continue its preparation, and, as

already stated, it was completed after his death by

Mr. Austen.

       On the 8 th of February his lectures at the School of

Mines began. On the 18th of the same month was the

anniversary dinner of the Geological Society, when he

was to take the chair as president. Anxious, as all

presidents are, to see a good attendance, he himself

wrote invitations to men of note in London, and was

warmly aided by some of his friends. His wishes may

be best gathered from the following note to Sir Roderick

Murchison :--
    " Wednesday morning. -- I am sorry to hear from

Captain Smyth that he is knocked up by influenza, and
Icannot be at Friday's dinner.
                                am very much obliged

to you for so kindly stirring in this matter, and hope
especially that you will persuade the Duke of Argylc to

come. The more great names the better, but I am not

much in the way of seeing them. The American am

bassador, to whom, among others, I flew a note on

chance, has accepted the invitation, and as he is a new
Iorator, may be pulled up with effect.
                                        wrote to both
516    MEMOIR OP                                                             CIIA.P. XIV.

the Belgian and French ministers, on account of the

Wollaston honour, and stated the facts in my notes, but

have had no replies. Bunsen sends a very kind note of
Iapology on account of engagements.
                                            want a bishop

or arch-parson to say grace, and thought to have got
Jelf, but he is engaged.

   " I shall be extremely obliged to you if you will take

charge of a toast, cither my own health, as president, or

the Geological Survey and School of Mines. The latter

I would much rather not give myself, on account of my

Ipersonal connexion with it ; and think it might be

Igiven with great effect either by you or the (late) presi
dent.  am anxious that it should be well done, and

that Dc la Beche should be called up to reply to it.

The completion of the survey of Wales would make a

point in and the rearing up of young geologists, now
       it,
                                         a
hatching in Jermyn Street. Perhaps you would arrange

with Hopkins, he to take one toast and you the other.
Your doing so would be great favour to me and

attraction at the meeting."
     His Friday evening lecture at the Royal Institution

this spring was fixed for the 13th of May, his subject

being " Some New Points in British Geology." In this

lecture he pointed out the general nature of his recent

researches among the tertiary strata of the Isle of Wight,

showing that the geology of that island had been pre

viously misinterpreted that there existed group of
       ;
                                           ;

                                                                          a
strata there which had not hitherto been recognised in
Britain and that the Isle of Wight sections, instead of

being incomplete, were really the most perfect in Europe,

perhaps in the world, and tended to throw fresh light on
1S53.  EDWARD FORBES.  517

 the conformation of vast regions of Europe, and, possibly,
 even of Australia.

      Tlus spring, Forbes undertook a course of six even
 ing lectures to working men, "On the Elements of
 Natural History." They were given in the theatre of
 the Jermyn Street Museum, every Monday evening, to
 numerous and attentive audiences. The change was a
pleasant one, from the nearly empty hall in which his
morning prelections were delivered, to the same hall in
the evening, with its sloping tiers of benches filled
almost from floor to ceiling. Besides these lectures, he
gave another course of five, " On Animal Forms," at
Marlborough House, under the auspices of the " Depart
ment of Practical Art."

     The Geological Survey of the United Kingdom, along
with the Metropolitan School of Mines, having been
transferred from the Office of Woods to the department
of the Board of Trade, a Treasury Commission was ap

pointed to inquire into the working of the School, and to
report upon the best means of improving its organization
and extending its usefulness. Forbes, along with the rest

of his colleagues, gave evidence before the Commissioners,

and pointed out what he considered the injustice done to
men of science in the treatment they received from the
Government, as well as the need of clear and definite

arrangements for the proper conduct of the School. The
report given in to the Board of Trade by the Commission
incensed him not a little ; " Not," he said, " because there

was any attempt made to injure us, but because it was so
plainly slighting to us in its propositions." In short, in

his estimation, the Report if adopted would only make
518  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XIV.

matfers worse by continuing and confirming the custom
of remunerating clerks and secretaries at a rate greatly
higher than that at which the services of men of science
were estimated. Fortunately the Report was not acted
upon. But the uncertainty and want of precision in the
arrangements of the School of Mines continued, and
formed the subject of much careful consideration to the
Board of Trade. The president, Mr. Cardwell, fully

appreciated the grievances stated by Forbes and his col

leagues, and during the summer had frequent consulta
tions, especially with Forbes, whose judgment had great
weight with him. The threatening aspect of the political
horizon, however, just as the Russian War was on the eve
of breaking out, necessarily impeded all arrangements

that involved considerable pecuniary grants. Forbes
classified his complaints under two heads ; those re
lating to the School, and those which concerned the
officers at the heads of departments in the Survey, etc.,
having daily duties. Of the first class, he dwelt especi

ally on the fact, that the Professors had not a sufficient
outfit for lectures, etc. ; that they had to pay their own
attendants out of their already sufficiently small in
comes, and that they had to take their students to the
country, live in expensive hotels, and received no subsis
tence money to defray their additional expenditure. In
the second order of complaints he placed the inadequacy
of the pay of the heads of departments in the Survey ;
that these gentlemen were ranked by their salaries in a
lower grade than many officers in the same department,
such as Registrars and Secretaries, who had no right on
any grounds to a superiority of position, and whose duties
1S53.                           EDWARD FORBES.  519

required no special capacity or peculiar training, beyond
that of many thousands of clerks in public and private

establishments ; that no personal allowance was granted
to meet the expenses entailed by the frequent changes of
station in the Survey ; that while the principle of rise of

pay with length of service was admitted in the Art and
general departments, it was ignored in regard to the

Survey, and generally, that both the Survey and the
School demanded much more fostering care at the hands
of Government than had ever been extended to them.1
" Now is the time to fight the battle," he wrote to Mr.

Ramsay, " and fight it I will, on principle, and for the

interest of all scientific officers."

      So with this, warfare to harass him, two courses of

lectures at the School of Mines, and his botanical lectures

for Ring's College, to occupy his time, besides all the or

dinary work of the Museum and the Survey, the summer

of 1853 passed away. The end of July found him be

ginning to get jaded with over-work, but still unable to

take his annual holiday. It had been arranged that he

should take the students of the School of Mines into the

country for some weeks to train them in field observa
tions, and the beginning of August had been fixed for
the purpose. Leaving Mrs. Forbes and the children at
Hythe in Kent, he started for Swanage, Dorset, and
spent a fortnight with the students. His mode of teach

ing is referred to in a note to Mr. Ramsay :--

i These complaints arc hore condensed         since that date been transferred to the
                                              control of the Privy Council on Educa
from his own enumeration of them in           tion, and that an augmented rate of pay
                                              with progressive increase, as well as per
letters   to   Professor   A".    C. Ramsay,
chiefly  in a  note dated       Museum, 18th  sonal allowances, have been granted to

November 1853." It is but right to state      the Surveyors.

that the Survey and the School have
520                MEMOIR OF                  CHAP. XIV.

                                                                    "Swakaoe, 13th August 1853.

    I" have them (the students) hard at work here, exer

cising them in the construction (each separately of course)
of a detailed section of the Purbecks, pakeontological

and mineral characteristics of every bed to be fully stated.

I shall then make use of them to draw up with me a

similar section of the Hastings Sand, and on Thursday

next leave this for Yarmouth in the Isle of Wight, where

they shall go through the Eocenes. Whilst with me

they will have seen in very characteristic localities all
the formations, ' from the Kimmeridge to the Upper

Eocene included.

   I" shall leave them in the Isle of Wight to finish their

work alone. It will be very convenient fpr them, as they

will take ship at Southampton for Falmouth, there to
I Ijoin Smyth. After that must have some rest.
                                                can

not stand this perpetual head-work, and must have
Ichange of scene.
                   find just money enough in the ex

chequer to give me and my wife three weeks on the

IContinent, and mean to go. When you got your pass

port, did you include Mrs. Ramsay in it ? Any hints

Iwill oblige. Of course shall be back to give the lec

ture on the 1st of October at the Museum The subject

I mean to take up is the Educational value of the

IMuseum, and intend to point out what is very apt to

be forgotten, that the peculiar merit and character of our

place is the application of it as a museum to purposes of
instruction in directions that mainly arc not looked to

elsewhere. 1 shall speak very plainly on the subject.
      " I have had many conversations with the men here

about their future prospects and intentions.    has
1853.  EDWARD FORBES.                              521

especially opened out (apparently as a spokesman for all

the rest) about the surveying service. The absence of
all allowances for hotel expenses, and the indefinite

character of future prospects, are the points that make

the service look very small in their eyes. There really

must be something very definite done in this matter.

The whole service ought to be put on a proper footing.

It must be done, too, before the estimates are arranged

for next year, for Survey arrangements are not per

manently settled at the Board of Trade yet. The surplus

money in the Survey ought to be used for purposes of

pay. Our service ought to be placed on as good a foot
Iing as the Engineers'.
                         mean to take the first opportu

nity of making a strong statement on the matter."

       Too much exhausted by incessant work, he abandoned

the British Association, which met this year at Hull.

Instead of attending the meeting, he spent the month of

September in France ; the first week resting and geolo

gizing round Paris, the second and third in Auvergne,

among the volcanoes and tertiary strata, and the fourth,

working the Paris basin, in all its typical parts, with

Mr. Prestwich, who went over to join him. Referring

to this trip, he writes to Mr. Ramsay :--

    " I would urge in the strongest way upon you, when

you can get a spare month, to make a run to Auvergne.

You might go to Clermont, and see all the leading

phenomena in ten days, or even less. Before working

Ithe Scotch traps, such a visit would be invaluable.

was utterly astounded at many things, and never ex

pected to find such perfect duplicates of ancient igneous

rocks among many of those comparatively modern ones.
f>22  MEMOIR OP                                CHAP. XIV.

The country is not half worked, and the true history of
Iits tertiary geology has all to be made out.
                                               see glim

mers of the way how, but it would require leisure and

time.
     " Mrs. Forbes was with me, and we enjoyed ourselves

very much, at comparatively small cost, -- much less than
living in London. She is now with the babbies at

Hythe."
     These few weeks in France were weeks of thorough

enjoyment. He used to speak of them as his " honey
moon trip," and as the very happiest time of his whole life.
He made work subservient to enjoyment, and the holi
day was in this way the first, not on duty, that Mrs.

Forbes and he had spent together. The weather, however,

proved very bad, --storms of hail, rain, and wind. The

tourists were frequently drenched with rain, especially
during an ascent of the Puy de D6me, when they were
exposed for hours to the pelting of the storm. Forbes

himself was thoroughly chilled, and used frequently
after this to complain of pain in the head and back.

     Recruited by change of aii1 and scene, he returned to
London in time for the opening of the School of Mines
on the 1st of October. He had been appointed to give

the introductory lecture, and the subject he chose, as
noted in a previous page, was the " Educational Uses of
Museums," having, of course, especial reference to the
collection with which he was himself connected.

     Although in that lecture he took occasion to mention
the increase in the number of students, there was still

very little in the prospects of the School on which to
found much congratulation. The arrangements with
1863.  EDWARD FORBES.  523

the Board of Trade, too, still remained iu the same

unsettled and unsatisfactory state. It was with no

small eagerness, therefore, that Forbes now heard of
the rumoured resignation of Professor Jameson. There
was no doubt about the matter this time. The veteran

geologist, feeling the accumulating weight of years, had
sent in to Lord Aberdeen, then Prime Minister, a condi
tional resignation, the chief points in which were, that a
pension should be assigned to him, and that the keeper-
ship of the Museum should be separated from the pro
fessorship, and given to his nephew, Mr. Laurence
Jameson. Except on the question of the separation of
the keepership, he was supported by his colleagues in
the University, who were likewise anxious that Edward
Forbes should put in his claim.

      Now at last came the opportunity for which he had
longed ; the goal to which, during these many years of
toil, he had never ceased to look. When it arrived, he

was fighting against over-work and many discourage
ments, and yet we cannot wonder that the final decision
was taken at last with hesitation and regret. The asso
ciations by which a ten years' residence had linked him
to London, were not to be lightly cast away. His circle
of acquaintance had every year widened. He had risen
to a high rank in the scientific world, and exerted per
haps a more potent influence among all classes of society
than any other scientific man of his day. His position
in London, therefore, was in this respect such as no pro
vincial town could hope to parallel. But, besides this,
he had still closer ties. Tn London, which had wit

nessed his struggle for life and fame, lived most of his
524  MEMOIR OE                            CHAP. XIV.

closest frieiuls. They Lad been, many of them, his

fellow-comrades in the battle, know Mm thoroughly, and

were as thoroughly known to liim. Voluntarily to exile

himself seemed almost like an unkindness, and a slight

upon the years of his intimacy with them With Forbes

these feelings had a peculiar force. His judgment, and

all the dreanis and aims of his life, pronounced for the

professorship in the north ; his love of friends and of

society prompted him to remain. . There was little

doubt> indeed, that the former would carry the day, but,

before taking any active steps, he summoned a council

of friends immediately after the conclusion of his intro

ductory lecture at the opening of the School of Mines.

Sir Charles Lyell, Sir Roderick Murchison, and Mr.

Pentland happened to be at hand, and being all his

staunch friends, he opened the subject fully to them.

They each supported his views, and though anxious,

if possible, to retain him in London, vigorously aided

him in the resolution to which a calm consideration of

all the circumstances had led him. What that resolu

tion was, he communicated to Mr. Ranisay as follows: --

   I" The time is at length come when am obliged to

decide between trying for Edinburgh and sticking to

London. I can assure you that it is with a somewhat

Isorrowful spirit am obliged to resolve for the nortk

. . . After carefully considering the state of things here
I--most unsatisfactory,  am sorry to say, they are-- I
Idetermined to risk the hazard of a try.
                                          took the

advice of Murchison, Lyell, and afterwards of Sir Henry

himself, who really went over the matter clearly and
                                   To-day I went to
fairly, but pitcously despondent.
EDWARD FORBES.                                                              525

the Home Office with Pcntland, to inquire into the real

state of the case, Jind found there was no time to bo

lost, as for a post so good there are plenty of busy
Icandidates and intrigues.
                            do not feel by any means

                            and am in that frame oi
confident about obtaining  it,

                                           I
mind that, whichever way the matter goes, will feel

more comfortable than under the present unsettled state

of affairs."

    Again, to Sir Roderick Murchison he writes --
     "After very earnest consideration of the matter,
                                        it, I I                             1
                                                             :
feel satisfied that may be of more use to science in
I
      I

                                     ;

                   I
Jameson's post than in any other. Were independent
of all office, could be of more use in London, and

would not think of leaving but since cannot quite

dispense with an appointment, shall be better able to

do original work, and to train men for with the inde

pendence and status that an Edinburgh professorship
gives, than as holder of small post in London."
a
             a
     Professor Jameson, from the infirmities of age, was
little more than passive agent in the matter. He had

resigned only conditionally, and one of his stipulations,

that of separating the Museum from the Professorship,

was opposed by his colleagues, and declined by the

Government. Strenuous efforts, however, were made

to obtain for him and on no part of the proceedings
a

              it

                I
                                                     ;
                                                                :
                                                                        is
connected with the Chair was Forbes so keenly sensitive

as on this. To Mr. Horner, who had taken up his case

warmly, he thus writes --" This point likely to cause

  difficulty, since believe the Lord Provost (of Edin
burgh), and possibly other people (but certainly none of

the Senatus), are advocates for the separation, on tho
r,2G                   MEMOIR OV  CHAP. XIV.

ground that greater facilities would thereby be afforded

to the public. There is a fallacy in this notion ; for the

impediment to study offered by Jameson, depended on

the professor's peculiar character, and might easily be
prevented by a regulation of the powers of the Keeper.

But to separate the Keepership from the Professorship

would be to paralyse the Chair. The Keeper would

have it in his power to prevent the Professor illustrating

his lectures properly, and in the lectures, one system of

nomenclature might be taught, whilst another entirely

contradictory might regulate the objects in the Museum !

Flow could any true teaching go on under such circum
Istances ?
             certainly could not conduct the Chair as it
                                                            I
ought to be conducted under these circumstances.

can confidently appeal to the men of science who have

visited the collection under my charge, and ask where

they could find greater facilities for study offered ; and,
if I went to Edinburgh, the same principle would govern
             I will keep you well-informed of the
my actions.

progress of affairs."

      Although he believed himself to have formidable

competitors in the late Dr. Fleming, and in another

gentleman still living, his success was certain from the
first. Indeed, the amount of influence which he and

his friends brought to bear on the Home Office was

enormous. Men of high social position, as well as the

most eminent men of science, actively supported his

application. This support came not from London only.
The Professors of the Edinburgh University were almost

unanimous in their eagerness to have him as a colleague,

and the Town Council seemed equally favourable to his
1853.  EDWARD FORBES.      527

election. From all quarters, political and scientific,

came testimony to the pre-eminent fitness of Edward

Forbes to be the successor of Jameson. " I have nothing

to complain of as to my friends in this matter," he said.
" Murchison has proved a trump, as he always does, so

has Horner, and Lyell has been endeavouring to turn
it to account, by calling Mr. Cardwell's attention to the

necessity of providing better for scientific offices generally.

The Duke of Argyle has taken the matter up most
... Iwarmly and actively.
IMaclaren's kind notes.    return the Provost's and C.

                         shall not forget their straight
Iforward and unsolicited friendliness ; value it very

much indeed." Every movement, whether in London

or Edinburgh, was made known to him through many

different channels. In short, although his warm fancy

magnified the obstacles in his way, and regarded lris

ultimate chances as very dubious, there could really be

no doubt as to the ultimate success of a candidate whom

everybody seemed determined to support.
     While matters were in such a state, that he felt it

would be rash to leave London for twelve hours, he

received, on the 13 th of October, an urgent letter from

the Isle of Man, requesting his presence there, owing to

the sudden and serious illness of a near relative. There

were circumstances in the case that concerned his own

Manx affairs, and it was impossible to avoid undertaking

the journey. Before leaving, he endeavoured to put his

chances of success in Edinburgh on the best footing,

and left instructions with his friends to work on his

behalf. Thus to Dr. Lyon Playfair, " Whilst I am away

much may be doing in Edinburgh beyond my reach,

Iand trust in you, as an old friend, to put a spoke in
528  MEMOIR OF                                  CHAP. XIV.

the wheels of my opponents if you find them going too

fast, and to aid me as much as possible." By the 19 th,

however, he was again in London, having been absent

only five days.

     On getting back, he found that a new form of oppo

sition had sprung up in Edinburgh. A proposition had

been started to have Jameson's lectures read for him,

while the veteran himself continued to hold the pro

fessorship. This met with favour in the Edinburgh

Town-Council, and was eventually acquiesced in by the

Senatus of the University. But when Forbes heard of

it he regarded the movement as a very formidable one
Ito his prospects. "As
                             expect" (he wrote   to Mr.
Horner), " the whole affair                     a dead
                             will now come to

Ilock, and be delayed until spring at soonest ; must
just hold myself free to act accordingly. I certainly

should have liked to have had the post as it stands,

Isince think it might have been turned to good service

for science, but if they will mutilate these posts in

Edinburgh, I must just make the best of London."

" You have little notion," he said to Mr. Ramsay, " of

the botheration and struggle attending a contest of tllls

kind. Scarcely a day passes without my having to

stump an intrigue."

    It was reported in London that these movements had

disheartened him, and that, in fact, from the very first,
he had been only half in earnest in his candidatcship.
The regret at leaving London which he always expressed

to his friends there, both orally and in his letters, led

many to believe that he would prefer to remain in the
metropolis. But that he was in earnest in the wish to

stay, and thus to forego all the dreams of his life, cannoi
185). EDWARD FORBES. 529

for a moment be believed. Mr. Horner, indeed, to whose

cars the report of Forbes's fickleness had come, and who,

like all his London friends, would much rather have him
still with them, wrote to ask whether the rumour were

true, and our naturalist thus indignantly denies it :--

                                                           "Jermvn Stueet, October 16, 1853.

   " My dear Mr. Horner, --I should have been de-
Iceiving you and many other kind friends if had desired

to retain my London place in preference to the Edin

burgh Chair. Rest assured that there is no post here, or

possible to be made here, that would induce me to remain

Icould become Professor Jameson's successor in his pro

fessorship and keepership. Lyell, with the kindest of

intentions, wrote to Mr. Cardwell of his own accord, and

did not tell me that he had done so until afterwards.
IPlayfair did the same without iriforming me.
                                               have

Iassured both that cannot accept any office in prefer

ence. Lyell does not know how we stand here, and has

never felt the horrors of being slowly strangled by red-
tape -- a process of slow torture and eventual death we

are undergoing in this place. Playfair knows better,

...but wishes me to stay if possible, though unable himself
to point out any possible inducement.  If Jameson's

retirement had been effected, or even if it were to happen

within the next fortnight, i.e., by the commencement of

Ithe Edinburgh session, intended to have arranged my

movements as follows :--To have asked permission to

deliver a three months' course in Edinburgh this winter,

commencing in February, and to have remained in Lon

don till then, completing my Government course which

should have begun in January, commencing it in No

2L
530     MEMOIR OF                                                        CHAP. XIV.

vember instead, so as to have caused no embarrassment

to the Jermyn Street schools. As it                              I iIs,  shall make no

permanent settlement this winter in London, but keep my

engagements open in such way that may be ready,
        a

called upon, to give the summer course (commencing
I if
in May) in Edinburgh. But there are many reasons why
     I
would prefer the matter settled now possible. . .                if      .
   " hope this long screed wilT convince you that
                                                                            I

am thoroughly in earnest about getting the Edinburgh

Chair. Ever, my dear Mr. Horner, very sincerely

yours,                                                           Edward Forbes."

     During these weeks of suspense, Mrs. Forbes and the                          a
two children remained at Hythe, in Kent, the Professor

going down now and then to see them, and to breathe

the sea breeze. Until the settlement of the Edinburgh

Chair, one way or other, he had resolved not to take
house for the winter in London. Now, however, that

Dr. Traill had been appointed to read Professor Jame
son's lectures during the winter session, nothing more
would probably be done till towards the summer term
of the Edinburgh College. He could, therefore, leave
London without prejudice to his interests in the north.

     He had delayed visiting Ireland, although the fossil
collections in the Museum of Irish Industry stood greatly
in need of his assistance, and Mr. Jukes had pressed him

to come over to help the Survey. Feeling himself at
liberty to do so now, he left London in the beginning of
November, and remained in Dublin ten days. Writing
of this visit, Mr. Jukes says " Although the fossils were
then in complete chaos, and the gallery cases only just
finished, yet such was the easiness and quickness with
        a

                                                              :
1854.  EDWARD FORBES.  531

which he worked, that he had arranged cvcry specimen

with his own hands, and all were in their places, with
descriptive cards, before the end of a week."

      This done, he speedily found his way back to London,
and after a visit to Rydc to be present at the marriage
of his brother-indaw, and to the Isle of Wight to examine
the Osborne sections which he had not yet seen, he col

lected together all the notes and material necessary for
the memoirs on the two great fluvio-marine scries of
Purbcck and the Isle of Wight, as well as his presidential
address to the Geological Society, and betook himself to
Hythc, there to elaborate his papers in the quiet of his
own family, and away from the turmoil of London. He
found that in this way he got " more written in a day

than in a week at the Museum." Coming up occasion
ally to town, to attend meetings, he still made the sea-
coast his head-quarters during the remainder of the year
and the first few days of January. One of the visits
which he paid to the Metropolis was on the last day of
the year, to dine with Professor Owen, and a scientific
party at the Crystal Palace, inside the model of the

Iguanodon, which had just been finished, and this, Forbes
pronounced to be " a good wind-up for a geologist's year."
Another object he had in London was to secure a fur
nished house ; this he succeeded in obtaining at 84,

Wimpolc Street.
     The first part of the course of lectures at the School

of Mines lasted till Easter, and when it came to a close

he was only too glad to take a vacation of three weeks
in France. On getting back to London he wrote, 28th

April 1854 --
    " Dear Jukes, --Prestwich, Austen, Sharpe, and I,
532  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XIV.

started on the day before Good Friday for France, to ex
plore the district called the Pays de Bray. My object
was to search for Purbecks, and to sec the nearest bed of

tertiaries to the Isle of Wight ones. We had beautiful

Iweather and great success. Had more time, I would

tell you of the results.

    " We came back on Sundav, and I was somewhat sur-

prised at healing of Jameson's death, which, ill as he was,

I did not think was so near at hand.

     " After stating the case to Sir Henry, and consulting

Horner, Lyell, Murchison, Sir J. Clark, Austen, and other
staunch friends -- all except Lyell of one mind -- I felt it

my duty to apply for the post, though not without a
pang. Success is probable, but by no means certain.

IHowever, shaU be settled one way or other, which will

be a comfort either way."
     On the evening of the same day on which this note

was written, he gave his well-known lecture to the Royal

Institution, " On the manifestation of Polarity in the dis
tribution of organized beings in Time." The theory
announced in this lecture will be alluded to on a subse-

cpient page.

     An interval of harassing suspense followed the an
nouncement of Professor Jameson's death. On the 2d of

May, Forbes writes a few hurried lines to Mr. Jukes :--
    " You can fancy," he says, " how tremendously I am

pressed at present in consequence of this Edinburgh
business, which is still unsettled, and which may call me
away at a moment's notice. Indeed, the Scottish autho
rities have run me into a fix, by saying that whoever is
appointed will be obliged to take immediate duty. In

that case l must leave my babes and their mamma in
1S54.            EDWARD FORBES.  533

town, and go at once to Edinburgh and do the course,

getting Huxley to finish my labours here, and Bentley
to do the same at King's College. In the meantime, this

state of suspense is intolerable."
     At last he reached the goal. The Professorship of

Natural History in the University of Edinburgh was

finally conferred upon him.

    It came somewhat suddenly in the end, so much so,

that he " was forced," he said, " to leave at a moment's

notice." Writing of these movements to Professor

Ramsay, he remarks :--" There were strong endeavours

Imade for the other candidates, but got in comfortably

and speedily, and wished then to have been permitted to

have finished my summer's work in London-- an arrange

ment of which the [Edinburgh] professors were ap

provers. But the Town-Council, though the chair was a

Crown one, resolved to have a finger in the pie, and had

one very good for me, by unexpectedly memorializing the

Home Office in my favour, a proceeding which probably

gave a good excuse for setting aside the other applicants

without ceremony. The Provost came to London, and

Icontrived to get matters so arranged, in spite of me, that

was desired to go and take the summer duties at once, and

to make the best arrangements I could for the London

summer courses. With a house on my hand till August,

many things to do, and a very doubtful prospect for the
...summer beginning so long after usual time, I did my
best to oppose.  As it was, an interim arrangement

was made that Huxley should finish my School of Mines'

'Principles' course, and Bentley the King's College lectures.

I had a long sit with Mr. Card well, and have done my

best to promote the interests of the School and Survey."
53-4  MEMOIR OF EDWARD FORBES.  CIIAP. XIV.

     Many and varied were the expressions of regret that
followed the announcement of his early departure from

London. Nowhere were they louder than in the Geo
logical Society, of which he still filled the presidential
chair. At the last evening meeting of that Society

previous to his leaving for the north, a scene occurred

showing how close and warm was the sympathy between

the President and the Fellows. When the scientific

business had been concluded, Sir Roderick Murchison

rose, and after referring to Forbes's early connexion with

the Society, and the numerous valuable papers and
memoirs with which he had since enriched its Transac

tions, announced that before the return of another

meeting their distinguished President would have en
tered upon another and distant sphere of labour. Sir
Roderick, who had been among the first of the geologists
to perceive and acknowledge the merit of his Mend,

dwelt gracefully on what was not the least remarkable

feature in the connexion of Edward Forbes with the

Society -- his generous cordial intercourse with all and

his power of attaching every one to him. Forbes rose
"Ito reply, but his feelings overpowered him.
                                               thank

you," followed by a gush of tears, told best his sense of

the esteem in which his colleagues held him.
     And so, on the 13th of May, bidding adieu to Lon

don, with its toil and turmoil, its constant demands on

his time and thought, its circles of acquaintance and

friendship, and all its pleasant associations, gladly, and

yet not without a pang, he set out to take his place as a
Professor in the University which, rather more than two-

and-twenty years before, he had joined as a student.
                      CHAPTER XV.

       THE CHAIR OF NATURAL HISTORY AT EDINBURGH.

     Before following the course of Edward Forbes to
the goal of his ambition at Edinburgh, it may be well
to pause for a few pages in order to look back upon the
work which he accomplished during his residence of
eleven years in London.

    It may be doubted whether a biographical Memoir

is the fitting place for a critical estimate of a man and

his work. At least it rarely happens that in such a place

the estimate is an unbiassed one. The biographer who
has made it his duty to search into all the personal de
tails of the subject of his memoir, who has had before
him for many months the picture of a human life with
its early promise, its struggle into manhood, its toils and
battles, its hopes and fears, its friendships and sym
pathies, and then, perhaps, its sudden and premature
setting, can hardly hope to be impartial. Work, the
record of which is but scanty, and its recovery, therefore,
a task of no little labour, is apt to be over-estimated, and

that which, if done by another man, would have been

regarded as of little import, comes to possess an interest
above its own when performed by him whose course the

biographer has been tracing.
536      MEMOIR OP                                                     CHAP. XV.

     The writer of these pages can lay no especial claim

     a                                        moreover, too sensible of his
                                         is,
to impartiality, and he

inability to cope with the subject, to presume to offer
here critical estimate of Edward Forbes. That must

be done by an abler pen, when the work which the great

naturalist accomplished has had time to spring up and
bear its rich harvest. There are some features of this

work, however, which may find fitting mention here.
     At the close of the narrative of his Mgeaa excur

sion, reference was made to the general character of his

scientific researches up to that time. We saw how,

eminently biologist from his earliest days, he had first
     a
          a

                                                                    a
pursued botany, chiefly with reference to the distribu

tion of plants, and then how he passed to the study of

the geography of animals. The transition from these fields

of inquiry to that of palaeontology or zoo-geology was
natural and easy. He had in this manner become, to some

extent, geologist before quitting Edinburgh, not merely
by collecting rocks and minerals, but in far broader

and more philosophical way, by connecting the distribu
tion of plants and animals with geological speculations.

His tour in the East greatly widened his experience, and

showed him more clearly than ever bow much still re

mained to be done in weaving geology and the biological

sciences more closely together.

    It was in this task that the greater part of his Lon

don life passed away. True, he found time during thoseof

busy years for some purely zoological work, as his His
tory British Mollusca, and papers and monographs for
the Ray and Linnaean Societies, abundantly testify. His

summer holidays, too, were frequently spent cruising
1S54.  EDWARD FORBES.  537

 along our shores with the dredge -- an instrument which
he first methodized as an implement of zoological re
search, and brought into extensive use by inducing the
British Association to form a Dredging Committee. In
these summer excursions, while refreshing his memory
as regarded the details of the mollusca or rodiata on

whose description he happened at the time to be engaged,
he often added new forms to the marine fauna of the

British seas. But his zoological work during his life in
London arose mainly from the researches of his earlier

years.

      Although so long Professor of Botany, Edward For
bes, after he came to London, did almost nothing in the
way of strictly botanical work. He read a few minor
botanical papers at the British Association. But his

most important contribution to botany arose not from
the botanical but from the geological side.

    It was chiefly in the domain of zoo geology, to use

his own phrase, that he passed his public life ; and it is
mainly as a zoo-geologist or palaeontologist that he will
take rank in the annals of science. His paleeontological
work, however, did not consist of mere descriptions of
fossil species. These he regarded only as part of the
preliminary ground-work of palaeontology, and he ever

strove to rise above them to the broader scientific ques

tions to which they led.
     His zoo-geological researches were marked by two

eminently characteristic features :-- In the first place, by

a habit of constantly reading bygone eras of existence by
the light of the present one, not only for the elucidation
of zoological details, but for the comprehension of the
538  MEMOIlt OF  CHAP. XV.

ancient physical conditions of bind and sea. Just as hisis,

botanical and zoological labours had been chiefly directed
to tbe distribution of living plants and animals, and the
laws by which that distribution is regulated, so in pale
ontology he sought to ascertain from his knowledge of
the existing creation, what had been the former distribu
tion of other tribes of plants and animals, what the cir
cumstances under which they lived, and how far they in
turn threw light on the grouping of the tribes now living.

In the second place, his palaeontological work was char
acterized by its broad generalizations. No fact stood
long single and isolated in the mind of Edward Forbes.
He had a remarkable tact in discovering the bearing of

detached phenomena on each other, and their relations
in the general economy of nature. Hence he delighted
to generalize his observations, and to speculate, after his
own imaginative fashion, upon questions of the deepest
interest to man, alike in his relations to the outer world

and to the Creator.

     As an illustration of the first of these character
istic traits of his zoo-geological researches, reference
may be made here to his remarkable paper " On the
Connexion between the Distribution of the existing
Fauna and Flora of the British Isles, and the Geological
Changes which have affected their Area, especially dur
ing the Epoch of the Northern Drift." Taking for
granted the truth of his doctrine of specific centres, that

    geographical points from which the individuals of

each species have been successively diffused, the problem
which presented itself to Edward Forbes was to account
for the present assemblage of plants and animals in the
1S54.         EDWARD FORBES.     539

British Islands, -- a problem which had never yet beenc?,
propounded by any of the geologists or botanists who
had treated of the distribution of our indigenous faunaa
and flora. He belicved that the plants and animals of
Britain could, for the most part, only have come bya
migration, before the isolation of our islands from theis
Continent, and he sought to trace out the history of this
                              a
migration. Grouped according to their geographical
distribution, the plants naturally ranged themselves into

five well-marked assemblages, or floras.
      1st, There is a small area, embracing the mountainous

districts of the west and south-west of Ireland, and con

taining plants which are also found native in the north
of Spain.

     2 In the south-west of England and south-east of
Ireland, group of plants occurs, not elsewhere seen in
the British Islands, but intimately related to the flora of
the Channel Isles and the neighbouring part of France.

Certain species of mollusca are peculiar to this region.

     3d, In the south-east of England, the vegetation
distinguished by the presence of number of species

also found on the opposite French coast. The peculiar
character of the entomology of the south-east of Eng
land, and also that of the pulmoniferous mollusca, arc
intimately connected with the presence of this flora.

     Ath, The summits of our mountains yield peculiar
assemblage of plants, which increase in number as we
proceed northwards, all of them being identical with
Scandinavian species. The fauna of these mountain

regions, so far as developed, bears the same relation to
more northern countries.
540  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XV.

     5th, The fifth and general flora of the British Islands,
everywhere present, alone or in company with the others,
is identical, as to species, with the flora of Central and
Western Europe, that which may be properly styled Ger
manic. The fauna accompanying this flora presents the
same peculiarities, diminishing towards the north and west.

     Such being the present grouping of the plants of the
British Islands, it became an interesting question to in
vestigate the causes that produced this distribution, and

the geological epoch during which it took place. It un

doubtedly arose chiefly during a period anterior to that of
man, and there could be as little hesitation in assigning
to it a later date than that of the older Tertiary forma
tions, when palm-trees flourished over the site of south

eastern England, and turtles and crocodiles haunted the

neighbouring waters.
      The great mass of the British flora, as well as of the

pulmoniferous mollusca, being Germanic, Forbes showed
that it had migrated from the Continent during the
post-pliocene period, after the bed of the glacial sea had
been elevated so as to form a land passage between Eng
land and the Continent. Proceeding across the British
Isles, the number of species of Germanic type diminishes

·is we go westward, and increases when wc cross the

German Ocean. Hence the eastern counties present

certain botanical and zoological peculiarities, dependent
on Germanic plants and animals that have been arrested
in their range, while the fauna and flora of Ireland and
Scotland are marked by the presence of plants and
animals not of Germanic type, or by the absence of

English species, which are.
1S64.  EDWARD FORBES.  541

     But though the migration of plants and animals over
the great Germanic plain accounted for the major part
of our British species, there was still a considerable flora,
and a portion of our fauna, which could not be traced to
such a source, seeing that they arc inhabitants, not of
the ancient west of Europe, but of Scandinavia. These

Alpine species could not have found their way to the
British Isles after the Germanic forms, for their areas

had then become isolated on mountain- ranges. Geo

logical evidence clearly proved that the central and
northern parts of the British Isles, along with the

Germanic plain, had at one time been covered with an
Arctic fauna and flora. This was the Glacial period,
when an intense cold prevailed over Central and Nor

thern Europe, and icebergs, bearing mud and stones,

were drifted southwards from the frozen north. During
a part of this era, Forbes maintained that our mountains
rose above the sea as scattered islets, having a northern

vegetation, and that as the land rose, and these islets
became isolated mountain tops, the Alpine plants re

mained only on the high ground, while the great Ger
manic flora spread itself over the lower plains and
valleys, and dispossessed the Arctic forms as the climate

grew milder.
     There still remained three limited assemblages of

plants and animals, -- 1st, That of Kent; 2d, That of

Devon ; and Zd, That of the west and south-west of Ire
land, -- all derived from continental regions south of the
great Germanic group. The Kentish and Devon floras,
according to Forbes, must have migrated (probably at
two periods anterior to the Germanic migration) from
542  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XV.

the north-west and west of France, across a tract of land
now destroyed. But perhaps the most remarkable of
all the floras was that which he numbered L, charac
teristic of the south-west and west of Ireland. The
peculiar plants of this region were found to be identical
with species either confined to, or abundant in, Spain
and Portugal, especially in Asturias. No marine cur
rents could account for their transmission, nor could

they have been conveyed as seeds through the air. The
hypothesis which Forbes proposed was, that at a period
greatly earner than that of the origin of any of the other
floras, there existed a tract of land between Ireland and

the Peninsula, across which the Spanish vegetation

crept towards the north-west. Of this flora, indeed,

only the hardier species have survived, but these
are distinct from those of any other part of the British

Isles.

     By a similar process of reasoning, he showed, in
the second part of his memoir, how the present fauna of

the British seas probably originated. It is impossible to

do more here than merely refer to his speculations on
this subject, so well known to geologists for their
shrewdness, and the high interest which they possess in
helping us to connect our present marine fauna with
that which witnessed the latest geological changes that
affected the area of the British Isles. His announce
ment of the existence of "outliers" of northern species
of mollusca in the deeper parts of our seas, formed an
other beautiful illustration of the law which he had

discovered in the iEgean, -- that parallels of latitude are
represented vertically in the ocean, by zones of depth,
EDWARD FORBES.  543

just as they are represented on land by zones of eleva

tion.

     The second feature described as characteristic of the

zoo-geological researches of Edward Forbes, was a love
for broad and often poetic generalizations. In the me
moir on the British fauna and flora this feature is espe
cially prominent. The observations of other naturalists

are combined with his own, in a generalization which
gives them a meaning and importance that they never
had before. The scattered facts of the zoologist and
botanist are linked together in such a way as to throw
light on the geological history of our country, and to
indicate the existence of ancient lands that had long

disappeared beneath the sea.

     As a still more characteristic instance of this feature

of his mind, it may be enough to point to his doctrine
of polarity in the appearance of life upon our earth
during the geological periods. The idea was a favourite

one with him in the last year of his life. It concluded

his presidential address to the Geological Society ; it
gave rise to a discourse to the Royal Institution ; and

it formed the subject of one of the last, if not the very

last, lecture that he delivered.

      Geologists are accustomed to subdivide the great
series of stratified rocks into three groups, Primary or
Palaeozoic, Secondary or Mesozoic, and Tertiary or

Cainozoic. To Forbes, however, it appeared that the two

last groups formed but one, and he proposed to regard
the geological record as made up of two portions only,
the Palaaozoic and the Neozoic, each of which repre
sented a vast period in the past history of our planet.
544  MEMOIR OF                                                  CHAP. XV.

When he considered attentively the arrangement mani
fested in the appearance of generic types during these
periods, he was led to infer the existence of a general
law dependent on what he called " the manifestation of
the relation of Polarity."

     " Iii the general aspect of the paheozoic world," he says, " contrasted

with the worlds of life that followed, although all are evidently portions

of one mighty organic whole, there seems to ine to he something more

than the contrast that depends on the loss or non-discovery of connect

ing links. There is more than we can explain by this theory. Grant
ing for its support all facts capable of being so applied, there are

residual phenomena to be accounted for, and which, as yet, have not

Ibeen referred to any law that know of. Doubtless a principal element

of this difference lies in substitution, in the replacement of one group

by another, serving the same purpose in the world's economy
Now in this substitution the replacement is not necessarily that of a

lower group in the scale of organization by a higher. There is an ap

pearance of such a law in many instances, that has led over and over

again to erroneous doctrines about progression and development.                                                     The

contrary may be the case. Now that we have learned the true affinities

that exist between the Bryozoa and the Brachiopoda, we can see in these
instances the zoological replacement of a higher by a lower group, whilst
in the former view, equally true, of the replacement of the Brachiopoda

by the Lamellibranchiata, a higher group is substituted for a lower one.

Numerous cases might be cited of both categories.                                                                   and
     " But can we not find something more in these replacements

interchanges than mere substitution, which is a phenomenon manifested

among minor and major groups within every extended epoch ? Is there
no law to be discovered in the grand general grouping of the substitu

tions that characterize the palaeozoic epoch when contrasted with all

after epochs considered as one, the Neozoic 1 It seems to me that there

and that the relation between them one of contrast and opposition,
is,
                                                        is

                                                             is
                                                                                                                is
--in natural history language,  the relation of Polarity.

     " The manifestation of this relation in organized nature,                                                      by con

trasting developments in opposite directions. The well-known and often-

cited instance of the opposition progress of the vegetable and animal

scries, each starting from the same point, the point at which the animal
ISC4. EDWARD FORBES. 545

and vegetable organisms are scarcely, if at all distinguishable, may serve to
illustrate the idea, and make it plain to those to whom the use of the
term Polarity in geological science may not be familiar. In that

case we speak of two groups being in the relation of polarity to each
other when the rudimentary forms of each arc proximate, and their

completer manifestations far apart. This relation is not to be con
founded with divergence nor with antagonism." i

      " The maximum development of generic types during the Palaeozoic

period was during its earliest epochs ; that during the Neozoic period
towards its later epochs. And thus, during the Pakeozoic period, the
sum of generic types and concentration of characteristic forms is to be

observed in Silurian and Devonian formations ; during the Neozoic
period it is during the Cretaceous, Tertiary, and present (itself part
of the Tertiary) epochs that we find the maximum development of pecu
liar generic types (or ideas). On the other hand, during the closing
epochs of the Palaeozoic and the commencing epoch of the Neozoic period,

there was a poverty in the production of generic ideas, with few ex
ceptions the species of the epochs in question being members of genera
that form constituents in the assemblage, accumulated during the epochs
of maximum of generic types or ideas.

    " The following table may render my meaning more evident :--

            j\Present and Tertiary epochs ) Enoch of maximum development
Neozoic     Cretaceous epochs        ofNeoioic Genoric types.
  period.
            Oolitic epochs           Intermediate.
Palaeozoic
  period.   J Trimsic epoc/is    }J  Evocha of     poverty of production
                Permian epoclts      <ofVGeneric  <tyjpa in Time.

            Carboniferous epochs . . . Intermediate,

            j Devonian epochs    J} oEffpopPca*hh1e*oo"fz"^max«i«m>u"mi«dtenv«el*opment
               Silurian epochs

      " Before the Silurian and after the commencement of the present, no
special creations of generic types have as yet been shown to be mani
fested. In the system of life of which all known creatures living or
extinct, so far as our knowledge extends, form a part-- and there is a
consistency in its co-ordination that suggests the probability of our being

acquainted with --its extremes the creation of the fauna and flora of

the oldest Palaeozoic epoch would seem to be the primordial, and the
appearance of man the closing biological events.

            i Anniversary AiWress to Geological Society, 1853.
                                           2M
546  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XV.

     " There may appear to be a contradiction involved in the expression
manifatation of polarity in time, for since time implies sequence or
progression in one direction only, how can we connect with time an
arrangement that involves the notion of progression iu opposite direc

tions, proceeding from a median zero 1

     " But time is on attribute with which man's mind invests creation ;

a mode of regarding Divine ideas, necessary for the conception of them

by our limited faculties, and forming in itself no part or essence of the
Divine scheme of organized nature. We speak of Polarity in Time, for
want of a better phrase : but this polarity, or arrangement in opposite
directions, with a development of intensity towards the extremes of each,

Iis itself, if am right in my speculations, an attribute or regulating law

of the divinely originating scheme of creation, therefore strictly speaking
independent of the notion of time, though perceptible by our minds only
in connexion with it." 1

    In making public this hypothesis, its author admitted
that it could at that time be received as no more than

a suggestion, one, however, which was based on a vast
number of individual facts, and a wide series of investi
gations. And though it has not found much favour in
the eyes of his contemporaries, it seems only fair to the
memory of the great naturalist that the last, and, per
haps, most beautiful of all his speculations -- one on
which, towards his close of life, he seems to have dwelt
with especial fondness, but which he never lived to illus

trate and defend--should find mention in this Memoir
of his labours.

     Edward Forbes, from the beginning of his career on
wards to its close, was remarkable for constantly looking
at nature, not as a mere piece of mechanism, obeying
certain laws, and effecting certain results, but as a great
visible manifestation of the ideas of God. No one could

                              ' lloyal Institution reports, April 1954.
                               EDWARD FORBES.                                       547

      be further than he from the habit of introducing the
      Divine name, as is so often rashly done, into descriptions
      of natural objects, almost as it were for the sake of

it is,effect. Nothing roused his indignation more than what

      he called " Bridgewater writing," -- well-meant, but fool
      ish expositions of the argument from design. Rightly
      viewed, no one part of creation shows more than another
      of the wisdom and goodness of the Creator. As His

      work, and as " having passed that general visitation of
      God, who saw that all that He had made was good, that

          conformable to His will, which the rule of order
                                                            in is
                                                                                 a
      and beauty," there can be no object nature that does
                  a
      not equally manifest the design of its author. But
                       1
      Forbes loved to deal with the organic world as world
      of type and symbol -- an embodiment of the thoughts ofA

      the Creator.          agenus was to him a Divine idea that

      existed in its perfect form in the mind of God alone,

      and was only dimly shadowed forth to us.              A  species he

      regarded as the visible and individual, though partial

      manifestation of generic idea, and the sum of all the

      species of genus as comprising all that man could
      know of the meaning of this idea.

           Thus every grade of organized being came to have                         a
      peculiar significance. To the Platonic mind of Forbes

         was an outward type of an inner Divine thought.

      But more than this, did not stand isolated and uncon
                               it

nected, but was linked by a thousand ties to all other
parts of the animate and inanimate world. " How many
and how curious problems," he says, " concern the com-

                               xvl.-- favourite book of Edward Forbes during his
      >
                                                        I.

                                                      A
     Browne's Kcligio Medici,
student life in Edinburgh.
548  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XV.

monest of the sea-snails creeping over the wet sea-weed !
ln how many points of view may its history be con
sidered ! There are its origin and development, the
mystery of its generation, the phenomena of its growth,
all concerning each apparently insignificant individual ;
there is the history of the species, the value of its dis
tinctive marks, the features which link it with the higher
and lower creatures, the reason why it takes its stand
where we place it in the scale of creation, the course of
its distribution, the causes of its diffusion, its antiquity
or novelty, the mystery (deepest of mysteries) of its first
appearance, the changes of the outline of continents and
of oceans which have taken place since its advent, and
their influence on its own wanderings. Some of these
questions may be clearly and fairly solved ; some of

them may be theoretically or hypothetically accounted
for ; some are beyond all the subtlety of human intellect

to unriddle. I cannot resolve in my mind the many

queries which the consideration of the most insignificant
of organized creatures, whether animal or vegetable, sug
gests, without feeling that the rejection of a mystery be
cause it is a mystery is the most besotted form of human

pride."1

     Such were some of the favourite paths of speculation
in which Edward Forbes delighted to wander, and it
was with the hope of following them out, and evolving
thereby a broader philosophy of natural history, that he
longed for a life of greater leisure. But the leisure never
came, and we can only conjecture, from the jottings and
fragments which he has left, how much he might have

                                   i Xat. Hut. Europ. Seas, p. 13.
1S54.             EDWARD FORBES.                                                  549

achieved had his life been prolonged. Enough, indeed,
remains to place him in a high rank in the annals of
science. His mind had at once that acutencss and

breadth which enabled him to appreciate the nicest

analogies and affinities, and to soar into the widest

generalizations, to perceive the nature of the minutest

details of structure, and yet never to lose sight of their

bearing on the higher questions of natural history.
Hence, in his works, we find a constant passage from

what might seem unconnected facts to some hypothesis

or speculation that links these facts together, and gives
Ifthem significance.
                              he erred, it was from an over-

anxiety to reach the meaning of isolated observations,

which sometimes, perhaps, led him to theorize on too

narrow a basis, and to over-estimate the value of negative

evidence.

From this tendency, his published works are rather

suggestive than demonstrative. Measured by what he
actually did in natural history, his name cannot be

placed where some of his warm friends would inscribe

along with those of Aristotle, Linnceus, Cuvier, Owen
it,

                          it
and Goodsir. But              would be unjust so to estimate

him. It must be remembered that he passed away ere

reaching his prime, and he must be tried, not merely by
what in his short lifetime he did himself, but by the

ideas which, scattered by him broad-cast over the world,
have sprung up and are bearing fruit in many lands.
He did more, perhaps, than any other man of his day to

spread abroad love for natural history more, undoubt
           a

                                                                               ;

edly, than any one of his contemporaries to indicate how

natural history and geology must be woven together.
550  MEMOIR OF                                 CHAT. XV.

The name of Edward Forbes will go down to posterity

inseparably linked with the history of palaeontology, as

one of the greatest naturalists that ever strove to bring his

knowledge of the living world to elucidate the physical

and orgcinic changes in the past history of the earth.

     He attained this high eminence not as a solitary
worker. In nothing was his career more marked than

in the power he possessed of interesting others in his

field of labour. His broad philosophical spirit enabled

him to appreciate the researches of the chemist and the

physicist, and in return he drew their sympathy with

him into his own domain. In bearing down all jealousy

and envy among his fellow-naturalists, and enlisting

their active co-operation in the common cause, he stood

forth conspicuous among the scientific men of his time.

And this he accomplished not so much by the weight of

his authority in matters of science, as by the influence
of his manly true-hearted nature. On no phase of the
life of Edward Forbes does it seem needful to lay greater

stress than on this, for on no other ground can we ac

count for the great influence which he exercised not in

scientific circles only but in society at large. It was not

his mental powers, great though these were, nor his vast

knowledge of those branches of science which he made

his especial study, that gained him the love and respect

of all men, but a simple kindly heart that knew no selfish

ness, and embraced in its wide and generous sympathy

all that was honourable and good.1

                                           <r

   · These feature* of his diameter were  eloquently expressed than in one ihort
dwelt upon immediately after hie death,   tribute to his memory, in which we can
in many of the obituary notices written   recognise the vigorous pen of one of our
by his friend*. NowhaA were they more     greatest living naturalists. After enn-
ISM. EDWARD FORBES. 551

      Although such summary remarks as those which have
beeu offered in the preceding part of this chapter are
usually deferred until the end of a biography, they
appeared naturally to suggest themselves from a con
sideration of the period in the life of Edward Forbes to
which we have now come. As the close of his student

days denned that part of his career, which was almost

wholly devoted to Zoology and Botany, so the end of his
London life, some of the characteristic traits of which

have been sketched in the foregoing pages, terminated

that second portion, which was as exclusively given to

Palaeontology and Zoo Geology. It was in London that

he made himself famous, and from the work which he

accomplished there must his place be determined in the
bead-roll of science. No man could have so predicted
at the time, and by none was it anticipated so little as
by Forbes himself. In leaving London for another
sphere of labour, he meant that the nature of his work

should also, to some extent at least, be changed. To

merating some of the leading features                                 had no hold upon his large and generous
     F:o--rl"jesIt'swmasinndo, tththiessewrqituearlitgioeess
of                                                             on to  nature ; he did not even understand
say                                                           which
                                                                      them in others. A thorough spirit of

distinguished him so highly beyond his                                charity-- a complete toleration for every
fellows. To say that he had them will
                                                                      thing but empiricism and pettiness,

not enable those who stood without the                                seemed to hide from him all but the

privileged circle of his friends to com                               good and worthy points in his fellow-
                                                                      Ifmen.
prehend why, within that circle, the old                                      he ever wronged a man, it was

mourn him as a son, and the young as a                                by making him fancy himself bettor than
brother. It is not because he was so
                                                                      ho was. Worked to death, his time and

gifted that the veterans of science one                               his knowledge were at the disposal of

and all affirm his loss to be irreparable ;                           all comers ; and though his published

and the aspirants know that they may                                  works have been comparatively few,

succeed, but cannot replace him. Our                                  his ideas have been as the grain of mus
                                                                      tard seed in the parable -- they have
directions cling to character and not to

intellect ; and rare as was the genius of                             grown into trees and brought forth

Edward Forbes, his character was rarer                                fruit an hundredfold ; but ho never

still. The petty vanities and heart                                   seemed to think it worth while to claim
                                                                      his share." -- Literary Gazette, 2,r>thNo
burnings which are the besetting sins of

men of science and of men of letters,                                 vember 1854.
552  MEMOIR OP  CHAP. XV.

Edinburgh he returned full of hope. He resolved to
free himself from the restraint under which geology had
too imperiously bound him, and to resume once more,
amid the scenes of his youth, those natural history pur
suits on which he had raised the foundations of his fame.
In quiet and leisure he hoped to reduce to order and to
writing the vast mass of knowledge which he had

gathered during these busy years, and to elaborate
those broad philosophic views of the connexion of the

natural history sciences to which his observations had
gradually led him. How he entered upon this work we
have now to see.

     Few men were ever called to a University chair amid
such general gratulations as now hailed the advent of

Edward Forbes to the Natural History Professorship at
Edinburgh. From all parts of the country his old class-
fellows repaired to their A Ima Mater to do him honour.

There was no party difference to mar the harmony of
the re-union. The universally admitted genius and range
of acquirements of the new Professor disarmed all petty
cavilling, and there arose one unbroken note of joy and
welcome. On the 15th of May, the largest class-room
of the University was filled to overflowing. Crowding
the benches were youths who had heard of the fame of

the great teacher, and who had come early to make sure
of catching the first accents of his voice ; others having
long known and studied his works, now hurried to see
1851.  EDWARD FORBES.  553

the man who had instructed and delighted them. Here
and there, too, among the crowd was an older head, one
that had been young when Forbes himself was a fellow-
student in the same class-room many years before. These,
with his readiness of memory, he speedily recognised.
Around him were some of those who had been professors
when he was still a wayward student ; some of his old
fellow-students had risen to assume the professorial
gown, and were now at his side to give him a hearty
welcome into their number. He stood at the head of a

school, and as the successor of a man of European repu
tation. The dream of his youth, when he used to sit on
these very benches, was now realized. All the associa
tions of the past, and all the glorious anticipations of the
future, passed rapidly in review as he rose to deliver the

inaugural address.
      When we reflect upon the state of mental excitement

in which he had spent the last few weeks of his London
life, and the suddenness of the call to lecture in Edin

burgh, we cannot but marvel at the thoughtfulness as
well as the dignity of his opening discourse. Its early
 part was full of reference to his own student days at
Edinburgh, and the character of the natural history
studies there pursued. After expounding his views of
 the true method of teaching natural history by the ex
 position of its principles, the value of this science as a
 means of intellectual training, and its inter-connexion
 with the sciences that deal with extinct organisms, how
gracefully and with what measured dignity does he con
 clude by pronouncing the Eloge of ins old master into
 whose place he now ascends ! --
554                        MEMOIR OF               CHAP. XV.

I" But the hour is shortening, and must conclude.  After many

years of study, and travel, and precious opportunities for acquiring ex

I Iperience, return to the city where was first initiated into the science
Iof nature, and where within these walls learned those lessons of

patient inquiry and minute observation, to whose working and training

I am indebted for the place that 1 now hold among the Professors of

my A Ima Mater. To my illustrious predecessor and master who passed

Ifrom amongst us ripe in years, honours, and fame, so lately, grate

fully record my acknowledgments for the encouragement of those tastes

and the founding of that knowledge which have proved to me a chief

delight. Who, that in time past was his pupil and found pleasure in

the study of any department of natural history, can ever forget his

enthusiastic zeal, his wonderful acquaintance with scientific literature,

his affection for all among his friends and pupils who manifested a sin

cere interest in his favourite studies ? When, in after life, their fates

scattered them far and wide over the world, some settling amid the

civilized obscurity of rural seclusion ; some rambling to the far ends of

the earth to sift and explore, wild savage regions ; some plunging into
the boiling and noisy whirlpool of metropolitan activity ; none who re

mained constant to the beautiful studies of his pupilhood was ever

forgotten by the kind and wise philosopher, whose quick and cheering

perception of early merit had perpetuated tastes that might have speedily

perished if unobserved and unencouraged.  The value of professorial

worth should chiefly be estimated by the number and excellence of dis

ciples. A large share of the best naturalists of the day received their

first instruction in the science that was afterwards to prove their foun

tain of honour from Professor Jameson. Not even his own famous

master, the eloquent and illustrious Werner, could equal him in this

genesis of investigators.  Under his auspices, too, were lasting friend

ships and unions of kindred minds formed that have been productive in
good to the cause of knowledge. Valuable as were his writings -- each,

when estimated with regard to the position of science at the time of its
--issue, an effective advance his pupils were even more valuable.
                                                                   The

greatest praise of a great Professor is that which proclaims he has

founded a school. And where else in the British empire, except here,
has there been for the last half century a school of Natural History i
I have a dillicult task before me, gentlemen, with thoso traditions of

greatness to overshadow my endeavours.    But Bince this most honour

able and responsible office has been placed in my charge -- the highest
1854.  HOWARD FORBES.                                 555

to which a British naturalist can aspire -- with God's blessing and your

Iassisting exertions will endeavour fully and fairly to do ray duty."

     His first experiences of a return to Edinburgh are
best told in his own words. To Mr. Ramsay he writes,

11th June 1854 :--
    " I have given three weeks of daily lectures, except

Ion Saturdays ; hard work, as have to find where every

thing in the way of illustration  it, is,and spend hours in

                                        aI
chalking and painting extempore diagrams and tables.

But shall go through with         and large class
II                                                  a
    I                                                         is
wonderfully inspiriting. My class-room (fitted up capi

tally, except ventilation, and exclusively mine -- great

comfort) holds 200, anda      filled every day. Of my
                          is
audience have 130 and odd paying students. Yester

day took them out on geological excursion, to give    1 in
them some elementary notions in stratification, etc,

the sandstone quarries, and along the coast section.

marched at the head of more than hundred fellows,
                                  a

most armed with hammers.

     "Balfour had as many in another direction botan
izing with him. We shall turn out fine set of natu
                       it

                            is
                                a

                                                 a
ralizing youths by and by. So you see things look well

here. And, after all,         great matter to feel quite

free, and to be able to do what one likes, as long as the

class duties are properly done and the museum flourish

ing. Those wbo talk of banishment forget how many

clever men are here still. Independent of the doctors,
here are old Fleming, Maclaren, James and George Wil

son, Chambers, Greville, Aytoun, Blackie, etc. etc., and

in the way of poets, we have Alexander Smith. Then

there are artists with good stuff in them, old Watson
556                     MEMOIR OP                    CHAP. XV.

Gordon, a very fine genius, at their head. They seem

all, too, to pull smoothly together, and there are capital

materials for red-lionism.

    " I am living in lodgings in Princes Street, all alone,
for I cannot get rid of that rascally house in Wimpole

Street, and dare not leave it for fear of some scrape.

Mrs. Forbes and the children remain there for the pre
sent, and come here next month. We shall probably

take a lodging at Granton alongside of James1 and his
wife, where I can leave Mrs. Forbes when I go to town in
IAugust.
           hope to find a house to settle in before October,

but will be up to the Liverpool meeting in September."
      The reference to " Red-lionism " in this note is

eminently characteristic. The " capital materials " were

very soon made available, for on the 14 th June, exactly

a month after his anival in Edinburgh, he announces a

Red Lion dinner to take place at the Cafe Royal on the
same evening that the metropolitan " Lions " met in

Anderton's Hotel. The first meeting consisted of six,
all either metropolitan or association " Reds," who formed

the nucleus of the Edinburgh tribe. They spent, as Forbes

Iexpressed           "a very jolly evening of the right sort."

                it,
The extent and value of the collections in the Museum

of the Edinburgh College filled him with astonishment.
" find Jameson's collection wonderful," he said, " even

palaeontologically, and brought up by judicious purchases

to the last moment." Again, --" The amount of material

for illustrating the course here very great, and the deis

tails of the lecture-room very complete."

     Often before coming to Edinburgh he had expressed

                     i  Col. Sir Heary James, R. E.
1854.  EDWARD FORBES.  557

his belief that the Museum and the natural history school

there might be made, perhaps, the first in the world for
educational purposes. His love for a trinity of things
found a place here too, and he spoke of his colleagues,
the Professors of Anatomy and Botany, uniting with
himself as a triad that would make Edinburgh famous.
His own part of the scheme he commenced with vigour
and success. The collections in the Museum stood
greatly in need of re-arrangement. Many of the most

valuable and illustrative specimens were stored away in
inaccessible drawers and boxes, and in the general dis
position of the Museum, too much regard was had to
artistic arrangement, and too little to scientific order.
To the thorough re-modelling of this noble collection

Forbes now deliberately addressed himself.

     In the lower room of the Museum some attempt was
made to group the stuffed specimens of Vertcbrata accord

ing to their natural orders, as far at least as was compa

tible with a good general effect. In the principal room,

though many important changes were planned, the col

lections were yet in great measure left untouched. Some
minor modifications deserve notice. For the purpose
of illustrating his lectures he placed in a small glass
cabinet in the centre of the apartment, selected examples
of the genera that formed the subject of the previous
day's lecture. The students had thus an opportunity of

examining in detail specimens which it was impossible
fully to describe in the class-room, and which, owing to
the distance of the hearers from the lecturer, could not be

adequately understood by them. "When not used for the
purposes of the lecture, this special cabinet was appropri
558  MEMOIR OF                                C1IA1'. XV.

ated for the display of rare, or otherwise interesting

specimens recently added to the Museum.
     He made abundant use of his pencil in these arrange

ments, sketching restorations of fragmentary organisms
or diagrams of anatomical structure on small cards affixed
to the specimens. Thus in depositing a series of bones
of the gigantic extinct bird called the Dinornis, he drew
a rough sketch to show the relative size of that ancient
denizen of New Zealand as compared with the living
Cassowary. In the rendering of geological sections his
hand was peculiarly happy. Two of these still illustrate
the series of typical specimens of the igneous rocks of
the neighbourhood of Edinburgh, which he arranged in
a small recess of the principal room ; and one of them, a

bold and ingenious restoration, shows the relative ages of
the volcanic masses of Arthur's Seat.1

      The long narrow room up-stairs called the " Upper

Gallery," was intended to become eventually the reposi

tory of a British Zoological collection. In the meantime
Forbes made it available for the illustration of types of
all the leading divisions of the Animal Kingdom, in

regular series from the Protozoa to the Mammalia, illus
trative cards with occasional pen-and-ink sketches of

generic distinctions being interspersed among the orders.*
     The popularity of his lectures was very great. Four

   > In the section here referred to, Forbes  mirably shown by Maclaren (Geology of
                                              Fife and the Lothians, Edin. 1839) and
shrewdly conjectures that the later           has since been still further demonstrated
rucks of Arthur Seat were so far separated    from an enlarged basis of evidence by
frum the older ones as to merit being         one of the writers of this biography in
classed with the Tertiary deposits. He
was possibly led to this by the associa-      the Memoirs of the Geological Survey,
tion of igneous rocks with the niiocene(T)       'Information communicated to Pro-
leaf-beds of Mull. The posteriority of
                                              feasor George Wilson by Dr. Spencer
the one series to the other had l>een ad-     Cohbold.
1864.  EDWARD FORRES.  559

days a week he lectured on Zoology, reserving the Fridays
for geological exposition, and occasional Saturdays for

excursions in the neighbourhood. It was his aim to pre

sent a general idea of the grouping and zoological value
of the various families, orders, and genera, rather than to
enter into the minute physiological details of any par

ticular division. At the same time, we cannot wonder

that by much the greater part of the first course was
devoted to the invertebrata, his own special field, while

the vertebrate division had to be hurried over towards

the close of the session.
     In unfolding the structure and relations of recent

organisms he never lost an opportunity of enforcing the
necessity of studying the extinct forms. Zoology and
Palaeontology, he insisted, ought never to be dissevered,
the existing creation being but the last link of a great
chain of which the previous ones lay entombed among
the rocks. His geological lectures had special reference
to the geology of the neighbourhood of Edinburgh, and
were illustrated by copious suites of specimens as well
as diagrams mostly drawn by himself.

     One of the most memorable features of his lectures,

was the ease, grace, and rapidity with which he drew on
the black board the outlines of the animals he described,

using coloured chalks to mark the different structural

characters to which he wished to draw attention. The
late Hugh Miller was an occasional auditor in the class
room this summer, and shared in the wonder with which

these rapid impromptu drawings were always hailed. In
a sketch of Edward Forbes, which he inserted in the

 Witness newspaper, he wrote, "The feeling comes upon
500  MEMOlll OF                               CHAP. XV.

us in all its freshness, how in his recent summer course,

when he was demonstrating the structure of those almost

translucent marine creatures of which he was the prime

expositor, the interest of his original descriptions was
almost lost in the admiration of the beautifully graceful

forms which seemed to arise, as if by magic, from beneath

his long and delicate fingers, and how a murmur of ap

plause was not refrained from by his admiring audience,

spectators rather, they might then be called."i The dex
terity too, with which, by a few touches, he corrected any
eiTor in the outline made while sketching, and continuing

his exposition, was truly wonderful. On one occasion he

was describing the delicately-whorled shell Clausilia, an

old favourite that had delighted him on discovering it at
Arthur's Seat during one of his first rambles when a
student in Edinburgh. In rapidly drawing the outline

of this species, Forbes perceived he had reversed the

spiral, but immediately detecting his error, the lines were

at once changed with the same ease and correctness of

proportions.
     No part of this summer course of natural history

afforded more delight than the periodical excursions on
alternate Saturdays, when, at the head of a hundred

youths or more, armed with hammers, chisels, and other

implements, Forbes traversed the country roads, rambled
along the shores, or hired a steamer and visited some of
the islands of the Forth. No one enjoyed these excur

sions more than himself, and he makes frequent refer

ence to them in his letters.  Thus, to Mr. Reeks on 11th

July, he writes :--

     ' Witness vf             November 1854.
         EDWARD FORBES.          561

"We had a great field-day on Saturday ; 200 students

(including the botanists, headed by Professor Balfour) in
a steamer, with dredges, hammers, etc. etc., and a cold

collation. The day was fine, and so many fellows

jumped overboard when the steamer anchored, to swim

ashore, leaving their clothes, that Inchkeith looked like

an island inhabited by naked savages. James was with

us, and we had a jolly party."

By the middle of July he had been joined by Mrs.

Forbes and the children, and took a cottage at Wardie,

near the coast, about two miles from Edinburgh. The

last lecture of his summer course was given on the 26th

of the same month, and he then concluded his first session

by three days of field geology round Loch Lomond,

with a select band of his students, augmented by a de

tachment of botanists from Professor Balfour's class.

"After a hard struggle to keep up to the mark," he

Iwrites to Sir Roderick Murchison, " have got through

my summer's lectures, ending by taking my students for

three days into the Highlands, to teach them how to
Iobserve in a mountain country.
                                 have some promising

young geologists among them, and fully expect to

turn out some thoroughly good men in a year or two.

Hammers and bags, chisels and clinometers, have come
into sudden fashion, and threaten to rival botanical

boxes."

     The suddenness of his departure from London had,
of course, left much in the Museum in Jermyn Street
still unfinished. His Isle of Wight memoir, and some
of the Decades of the Survey, formed part of the uncom
pleted work. Early in August, accordingly, after his

         2N
562  MEMOIR OF                                   CHAP. XV.

Highland ramble, he went to London, and remained there
hard at work, until, at the end of the month, he had an

attack of illness which warned him to get north again

as speedily as possible. On the first of September he
wrote a short note from the Edinburgh Museum to Mr.

Ramsay :--
     "After trying to work in the heat and poison of

ILondon, succumbed, and on Sunday last was seized
Iwith diarrhoea and vomiting, so that was glad to rush

...off on Monday to see David, and thence to come here.
I shall, however, be at Liverpool.  I am much taken

with Maclaren's name of ' calciferous sandstone,' applied

to the series of beds between the Encrinite limestone

and the true Old Red. This series includes the Granton,

etc., building stones. The carboniferous slates of Ireland

are equivalents.

    " Fossils being rare, I am working hard at minerals,

my old love for which is reviving, and with such a col

lection in my charge, I cannot help taking them up.
IYears ago was as fond of them as afterwards of fossils,

and all their old names seem to come up again."

     With these studies in the Museum, he combined,

during the early part of September, several short ex

cursions from Edinburgh, as one --his last dredging day
--with Drs. Balfour, Macdonald, and Wyville Thompson,

to the coast of North Berwick, and another with Mrs.

Forbes and his brother David to Loch Lomond. He

also spent three days at Jardine Hall in Dumfriesshire,

and during a geological excursion in that neighbourhood

was exposed for some hours to a drenching rain which

chilled him thoroughly, and was followed by pain in the
185*.  EDWARD FORBES.  563

lumbar region, of which he continued to complain until

his last illness.

     The British Association was to assemble at Liverpool
on the 20th day of the month, and he hastened to be

present at the meeting. It was a fitting, though unfore

seen close to his long and honourable connexion with
the Association that now, when on the eve of quitting it
for ever, he should obtain its highest sectional honour.
He was elected to fill the President's chair in the Geo

logical Section, and took his seat as umpire among

veterans in the science -- Lyell, Murchison, Sedgwick,

Owen, and a band of younger, but widely known men,
his own warm friends and comrades. For so young a
man, the honour was at that time unique, but it fell to
one whose tact and judgment were not less remarkable
than his geniality. And such a chairman was peculiarly
needed at this juncture, for it was known that the meet

ing would not pass away without a lively, possibly an
angry debate. The vexed question of nomenclature, in
which the two chiefs, Sedgwick and Murchison, differed,

and which had been so keenly discussed already before
the Geological Society, was to come up again at this
meeting. The debate proved, indeed, a stormy one.
Forbes found his friends ranged on different sides, and
had, of course, his own decided opinion on the question.
Yet in this delicate and difficult position, by the con
current testimony of all present, he acquitted himself to
the satisfaction of every one. And at the close of the

meeting, Sedgwick, on whom a generous deed was never

lost, even though Forbes dissented from his views, pro
nounced upon him a noble eulogium.
564  MEMOIR OF  CHAI'. XV.

    At this meeting Forbes read two papers.
     1. On the foliation of some, metamorphic rocks in

Scotland.
     2. On some points connected with the natural his

tory of the Azores.
     The first of these communications resulted from his

excursion to Loch Lomond, and contained an expression
of his belief, that the cleavage and foliation of rocks were
the results of distinct processes. The second paper was
suggested by the researches of Mr. Macandrew.

     While in Liverpool, he remained with Mrs. Forbes
and a pleasant party, at the hospitable mansion of Mr.
Macandrew. Mr. Jukes, who was one of the guests, has
furnished some notes of this meeting. "Forbes," he
says, " got through the business of the section well, but
often complained of exhaustion when he got back to din

Iner ; and once or twice observed him ask rather eagerly

for port wine. There was, too, a somewhat worn and
anxious expression in his face, and occasionally he com
plained of not feeling well. One evening, which we had
anticipated would be spent without interruption in Mr.

Macandrew's study, discussing a few scientific questions
that had been long pending between us, was sadly en
croached upon by a stranger, who, armed with note-book

and pencil, had come to consult poor Forbes. The latter
was kept on the stretch for full two hours, yet with the
utmost patience and good humour he took pains to satisfy

his unreasonable questioner, who, it appeared, was en
gaged in writing some book or treatise on Natural His
tory, and had come fully determined to extract all he
could out of the President of the Geological Section. On
1864.  EDWARD FORBES.                      565

the occasion of the Reel Lion dinner nt this meeting,
Forbes presided with even more than usual of his wit,

vivacity, and humour, making a most humorous speech
in the character of the Scottish Lion, about the rights
of which there had just then been a discussion in the

newspapers."

     In returning to Edinburgh, he spent a week in Dum

friesshire. On the 9 th of October, he writes from the

College Museum, Edinburgh :--
    " Dear Jukes, --We only got back on Saturday

night. We divided the week between an old student

and naval friend, who has had the luck of having a fine

estate and house left him, and now sits in the midst of

his books, delighting in Hebrew, Greek, and all the lan

guages, and keeps open house, and Sir William Jardinc,

who keeps open house likewise. Harkness came on a

visit to Jardine Hall, and we had a nice run over the
                                           I am now preparing for the
geology of Dumfriesshire.

coming session."

     In another note of the same date to Sir Henry de la
Bcche, he expresses his belief that " certain beds which

have been mapped as carboniferous in Dumfriesshire are

really Permian."1

     In his leisure moments during the autumn he had

been engaged in a critique of Sir R. I. Murchison's
" Siluria," which appeared in the Octol>er number of the
Quarterly Review. As the last of his writings it has a

mournful interest and meaning in the broad, generous

Bpirit, which breathing through its pages, comes to us as

   i Since thin conjecture of Forhea, Mr.  tended the area of the Permian strata in
Darkness and Mr. Binny have both ex-       the south of Scotland.
506  MKMOIK OF                                 CHAP. XV.

it were his latest legacy. His parting words addressed
to the scientific world, seem like the embodiment of the

idea of his whole life.
      " The old Scandinavian gods amused themselves all

day in their Valhalla, hacking each other to small pieces,
but when the time of feasting came, sat down together

entire and harmonious, all their wounds healed and for

gotten. Our modern Thors, the hammer-wielders of
science, enjoy similar rough sport with like pleasant end
ing. Men, whose work, both of head and hand, is done

maiidy under the broad sky, and along the craggy sides
of mountains, heedless of weather and toil, are not likely

to use mincing forms of speech, or mollify their senti
ments- when engaged in discussions, though all the
time mildness and mercy are at the foundation of all

their thoughts. Better men and truer, whether in field or

council, there are not living than the two famous geolo
gists, the nature of whose differences we have endeavoured
to expound. They have worked long and well in co

operation, heart and hand united ; and though the for
tune of scientific war has led in the end to the crossing
of their pens, the names of Sedgwick and Murchisou will

go down to posterity side by side, and bracketed together
in the glorious list of benefactors of mankind through
the advancement of science."1

     He returned to Edinburgh some weeks before the

opening of the winter session at the College.  These

he employed chiefly in preparing for his lectures and

arranging the commencement of the New Philosophi
cal Journal, formerly conducted by Professor Jameson,

     l Qugrterly Review, No. axe. p. 383.
1854.  EDWARD FORBES.                                                         567

 and now intrusted to the editorship of Dr. Anderson and
 himself. He had found great difficulty in obtaining a
 suitable house in Edinburgh, and had, in the meantime,
 engaged a furnished house for six months, from the 20 th
 of November. This inability to find a " home " weighed,
 to a marked degree, on his spirits. At last the College
 opened on Wednesday the 1st November, and the Natural
 History class began on the same day.

       The manifest weakness which had attracted the notice
of his friends at Liverpool still continued, augmented, as
he maintained, by the effects of exposure to wet and cold
during his trip to Dumfriesshire. Although not nervous
as a lecturer, his hand was observed to tremble as he

raised it from the desk on which it often rested during

the delivery of his introductory lecture.1

     " He complained," says Dr. Bennett, " of chills and

feverishness indicating, as he insisted, a return of his old
enemy, the remittent fever he had caught in Greece, and
for which he took quinine." But in spite of the urgent
entreaties of some of his friends, he continued to lecture
during the rest of the week, superintending the enrol
ment of his numerous students, and the arrangements of
the Museum.

      On Sunday the 5 th, Dr. Bennett was summoned to
his bedside, and found him labouring under slightly
febrile symptoms with an accelerated pulse. Forbes had
intended that day to walk with Mrs. Forbes to the Dean

   i This lecture was found among bis     typographical    blunders.    F"onr ateuxraaml phleis,
                                          on p. 155 it is  stated that
papers after his death, and printed in
the Edin. Phil. Jour. (New Ser.) for      tory, under its tubscimccs, physics and
January 1855. The indistinctness of
                                          chemistry," cannot do    omfuc"h   for utilita-
his handwriting, however, has led to the  rian interests, instead           natural his-
minmimilon of a great many egregious
                                          tory, unlike its sister sciences."
5(58  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XV.

Cemetery, which he greatly admired, and often visited,
and which he said he should wish to be his last resting-

place. But he found himself too weak for so long a walk.
He insisted, however, on going to the College next day
as usual, and such was his anxiety regarding the for
mation of his class, that he continued to lecture during
the next three days. His weakness became still more
perceptible in the class-room. Before commencing his

prelection, he was observed by his students to mix up a
white powder (quinine) in water, and drink it off with

a trembling hand. On the Thursday he felt too ill to
continue the duties of his class, and hoping that a
few days of rest would restore him, he announced his
intention of suspending his lectures until the following

Monday. The febrile symptoms, however, continued

to increase. On Saturday he wrote to the Professor
of Botany : --

     "Dear Balfour, --My prospect of mastering my

illness depends on my remaining a-bed to-day and to

morrow.
     " The fifteen students of whom you wrote, have cer

tainly not as yet entered my class. I have fifty-four fresh

entries, of these not more than twenty-six or twenty- eight

are medical. As each man has entered l have asked him

what his pursuits are, and how the hour of lecture affects
him." He then enters into the reasons for not altering
the hour of his lecture, as had been proposed by some of

Ihis colleagues. " For my own part hold that to change

any one hour of lecture after the arrangements of the ses
sion are complete and advertised, is both deleterious and

unbusiness-like. . . . The first consideration should be
1854.  EDWARD FORBES.                             569

the academical convenience ; the next, the propriety, if

there are to be changes, of announcing them in prospect
a full session beforehand ; the last, private convenience.

--Ever, dear Balfour, most sincerely yours,
                                              " Edward Forbes."

       The repose from the fatigues of the class-room could

not arrest the progress of the disease. He began on the
Sunday to complain of obscure pain in his back, and it

soon became only too evident that he was suffering from a

nephritic affection of a very grave nature. Some matters

of business which he had left incomplete continued to press

upon his mind, especially the formation of his class, the

preparation of the new edition of his Palaeontological

Map for Johnston's Physical Atlas, and the first number

of the New Philosophical Journal. On Monday evening,

with a hand that could scarcely hold the pen, he wrote,

in hardly legible characters, his last note :--

    "Monday evening. --Dear Balfour, -- I am com

pletely shattered for the moment, and don't know how

to get on with the Journal, being so ill. Could you look
Iin upon me and advise. Come here, i.e., Wardie.
                                                  am

still in my bed. -- Ever,  E. Forbes."

      On Tuesday, when rising, he experienced sudden and
acute agony, his pulse became rapid and weak, and he
himself discovered the nature of the disease, remarking
to his wife, " 1 know it will go very hard with me ; it is
the kidneys again." When Dr. Balfour went to see him
he was unable to speak. His old friend and fellow-
student, Professor Goodsir, was, with Dr. Bennett, con
570  MEMOIR OP  CHAP. XV.

stant in his attendance in the sick-chamber, tending
Forbes with a brotherly assiduity.

      On Wednesday, Dr. Balfour found him " rather easier,
and able to give directions about the papers for the Jour
nal ; he spoke with great anxiety about his pupils and
his class, and gave a message to several of them." He
would not admit that his illness was of a hopeless kind.

He had been similarly prostrated before, he said, and be
lieved he had enough of vis in him to weather this second
attack. He could not bear to lose sight of his wife for a
second. She sat with him, and wrote his letters, but

he spoke very little.

      On Thursday morning he appeared much better. Dr.
Bennett and Mr. Goodsir having occasion to be in Edin
burgh, Mrs. Forbes watched him alone all day. About

dusk she saw a change come slowly over his features.

Soon after this the doctors returned, and they were

compelled at last to admit that no hope remained.
He requested to know their real opinion of his case.

When it was told him, he remained for a long while silent.

" I was not ambitious," he said ; " I hoped and wished for
Ithe Edinburgh chair because I thought could do good

there." He referred to his having been overworked, and
to the anxiety the Town-Council had occasioned him by
insisting on his leaving London so hurriedly to lecture in
Edinburgh. He more than once reverted to this subject,
on one occasion observing, with a touch of his wonted
humour, " The bailies have killed the goose that laid the

golden eggs."
     On the morning of Friday he kissed the children be

fore Dr. Christ ison took them to the house of Dr. Bennett.
1854.  EDWARD FORBES.                                                         571

All day he continued to grow weaker, and his wife
watched him alone. In the evening, her uncle, the
Rev. Mr. Rooke, who had been telegraphed for, arrived,
and wrote a short will, by which Forbes left his children
under the entire care and control of his wife, his papers
to Mr. Godwin Austen, and his natural history collections
to the College Museum of Edinburgh. Mr Rooke then
read prayers with him, in which Forbes joined. When
his wife asked if he would like to receive the Holy

ICommunion, " Very much," he said, " but am too weak

now."

     The pain was in great measure gone, but the pulse
grew feebler, and the face more pallid. In addition to
the constant and devoted nursing of his wife, Mr. Good-

sir and Dr. Bennett shared alternately the care of tending
him, the former spending the night with him. On Satur
day, Mrs. Hay (Mrs. Forbes's sister) arrived, and he
expressed great gratification at seeing her again. From
this time, however, he hardly spoke. His wife stood
supporting his head, and repeating anything said in the

room, for he seemed unable to hear any voice but hers.
His face gradually wore a strange depth of expression, as

    in his profound reverie, he saw beyond this world.

When recalled by being spoken to, his eyes closed, and a
gleam of pain seemed to pass across his features. He
suffered greatly from feeling of suffocation, but other
wise there was no pain. Late in the afternoon, Dr.
Bennett was obliged to leave him for short time,
intending to return with Mr. Goodsir in the evening,

as death, though plainly inevitable, was not looked for
till night. Before quitting the room he gave some in
if,
                                      a
                                                                           a
572  MEMOIR OF  CHAP. XV.

structions in a whisper to the nurse, but these were cut

short by Forbes, who interposed --" That will do, Bennett,

no more of that," evidently meaning that all further
efforts at restoration were useless. The end was now

very near. Pressing his friend's hand, he said, referring
to Mrs. Forbes, who had just left the room, " Be kind to

her and the little ones." A return of the pressure, and

Ithe reply, " will," assured him that all would be well

with them. When his wife returned he was speechless.
As she took his head again in her arm, he opened his
eyes and smiled, and signed to her to kiss him. To her

inquiry if he still knew her, he could only faintly whisper,
" My own wife."

      Another hour crept on, during which he said nothing,
though his eye showed that he remained in the full pos
session of his faculties. And then, as twilight was

deepening into dusk, the spirit passed imperceptibly

away.

     On the afternoon of Thursday the 23d November
the Principal and Senatus of the University of Edinburgh,
with a numerous band of students, the Lord Provost and
Magistrates, in their robes of office, and a large con
course of the citizens, including followers of science from
far and near, assembled to pay the last tribute of honour

to the great naturalist. They met at the Dean Chapel,

and thence moved sadly and slowly westwards to the
Cemetery of the Dean, winding through the walks of
that most sequestered of sleeping-places to a gentle,
trec-shaded slope that overlooks the deep ravine of the
1854.  EDWARD FORBES.  573

Water of Leith. And there, among the well-explored
scenes of his youth ; within sight of the sea, of whose
wonders he was a prime expositor ; within hearing
of the hushed and mellowed hum of the city that had
witnessed the efforts of his earlier years, and been
from first to last the goal of his life aud his cherished
haven of rest ; amid grief too deep for utterance, the
earth closed over all that was mortal of Edward

Forbes.
                         APPENDIX.

         LIST OF PROFESSOR FORBES'S WRITINGS.

Sate.                    Subject.

1831.  On   sthoemo" MMaannx-KeTerapdeirtio"nosf  Scott,                  Mirror.
1832.  On                                                                     do.

1834.  On British      Species of Patella,                                University        Journal.
       " Parting,"      a short Poem (a Quiz),                                         do.
                                                                                      do.
       On the Phrenological Development of the

           Cheese-Mite.

1835. Natural History Tour in Norway (four Papers),                       Loudon's Mag. of Nat. Hist.

         " University Maga," vol. i. (many articles                         Ser. l.viii. 65, 249, 305;

              Forbes.)                                                       ix. 169.
         Records of Dredging (three papers),
                                                          hy

1836.  Note on Blennius Ocellaris,                        of Testacea in  Mag. Nat. Hist. Ser. 1, viii.
1837.  On the Comparative Elevation                                          68, 591 ; ix. 191.

           the Alps.                                                      Do., Ser. 1, ix. 203.
       On a New British Viola                                             Mag. Zool. & Bot. 1837, i.

       On   a   New    British Pulygala                                       257.
       The     " Pint   of Wine." A Song                                  Trans. Bot. Soc. Edin.

         Political Song                                                                do.
         "Ducks and Green Peas," in Two Sonnets, ...                      Manx Sun.

                                                                          Fraser's Mag. (April )

                                                                                       do.

       On New and Bare Forms of British Plants and

          Animals (read before the British Associa                        Rep. Brit. Ass. Sect. p. 102.
         "tiUonni,vLeirvseitrypoMola),ga," vol. ii. (many articles by
1837-8.

1838.       Forbes.)                                                      Edinburgh Advertiser.
       Letter on the "Snow-ball Riots,"                                   Fly-leaves.

       Six Songs on the University Riots
                   Battle of the Quadrangle.
                   The Gallaut 79th.

                   New Song.
                   Down with Mob and Charlies.
                   A Student true my Love, etc.
                   Here's to the Hcroos of '38.
576 APPENDIX.

Date.                                   Subject.

1838. Malacologia Monensis,                                        1 vol. 12mo, 70 pp.
                                                                   Pampblet, 24 pages.
       The University Snowdrop,

          (A pamphlet containing a selection of
          the songs written after the snow-ball riots,

          and including the six by Forbes given

                above.)
       On the Specific Claims of Primula acaulis,

          veris, and clatior,                                      Ann. Nat. Hist. n. 140.
                                                                       *,
       On the Distribution of Pulmoniforous Mollusca
                                                                   Brit. Ass. Rep. Sect. p. 112.
           in Europe (read before Brit. Association,) ...          Ann. Nat. Hist. in. 124.

       On the Primula elatior of Jacquin                           Ann. Nat. Hist. n. 250.
       On the Land and Fresh-water Mollusca of Al                  Ann. Nat. Hist. m. 46.

          giers and Bougia,                                        Edin. Univ. Mag.
                                                                   Ann. Nat. Hist. ill. 145.
1839.  Review of    Johnston's British            Zoophytes        Edin. Univ. Mag. No. in.
       " Le pour     ct le Contra," a             Song from
                                                             Des-  Ann. Nat. Hist. ill. 236.
                                                                   Brit. Ass. Rep. 1839.
          angiera

       On Two       British Species of Cydippe,
       " Time,"      a Song from Beranger

       Notice of a Botanical Excursion to the Moun

          tains of Ternova

       Notice of Researches in Shetland,

       On the British Ciliograda (in conjunction with

          Mr. Goodsir),                                            do.

       Report on the Distribution of Pulmoniferous

          Mollusca in the British Islands                                       do. p. 127.

       Tbo Dudley Expedition, an Association Med                   Lit. Gazette, Sept. 7.
                                                                   Wernerian Mem. vm.
          ley,                                                     Edin. Acad. Ann. 1840.

       On the AsteriaiUo of the Irish Sea,                            See Mem. Geol. Survey
                                                                      Great Brit. i. 371.
       On the Association of Mollusca on the British               Ann. Nat. Hist. iv. 217.
                                                                   Fife Herald, December.
          Coasts, considered with reference to Pleis-
                                                                                    do.
           tocene Geology.
       On a Shell-bank in the Irish Sea

       Squib, in verse, on Revivals,

       Parody on Old English Gentleman,

       Observations on the Objects of Philosophical

          Associations,                                            do.

1840.  On the Botany of Trieste (read before              Botani

       "  AcaNl igShotcieStcye,ne14"th   November 1839             Ann. Nat. Hist. iv. 307.
                                        (a little poem),           L'pool High School Mug.
       Abstracts of his Lectures at Liverpool,                     Liverpool Albion.
                                                                   Ann. Nat. Hist. v. 102.
       On some New and Rare British Mollusca
                                                                   Glasgow College Album.
       The Origin of the Garden Rose (a little poem),              Bot. Soc Trans.
       On certain Continental Plants, etc.,                        Ann. Nat. Hist. v. 180.

       On the British Actiniadae,

       On Corymorpha Nutans (along with Mr.

          Goodsir)                                                              do.        v. 309.
                                                                                           v. 363.
       N"oDtearkon   Animalcules                                               do.
                    Eyes," a Song                                  Manx Sun.         Rep. Sect. pp.
                                                                   Brit. Assoc.
       On the British Ciliograda, i in conjunction with
                                                                       137,141.
       On Pelonaia                      { Mr. Goodsir,
                            LIST OF WRITINGS.            577

Data.                       Subject.

1840. Dredging Report,                                   Brit. Ass. Hop. Sect. p. 444.
                                                                      do. p. 104.
       On ft Pleistocene Tract in the Isle of Man,
                                                         Literary Gazette, Nov. 7.
       Dredging Song,       ·.
       John Chinaman : A Jolly New Ballad od the                    do. Nor. 14.

       Chinese War,                                      Ann. Nnt. Hist. vi. 241.
                                                                    do. vi. 316.
       Zoo-Geological Considerations on the Fresh                  do. vi. 317.

       water Mollusoa                                                 do. do.
                                                         Scottish Standard nows-
       On Lottia Palchella
                                                             paper. ·
       On the Genus Euplocamus                      ,    Edin. Monthly Medical

       On the Blood of Nudibranchia,       ,                Journal, i.
                                                         Jameson's Jour. 1841.
       Abstract of a Lecture on Zoo-Geology and          Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist.

       Psyohology.                                          vii. 81.

1841. Note on the Cause of Ciliary Motion                Do., p. 157.
                                                         Do., p. 345.
       AbBtrnct of Classification of the Mollusca,       Rep. Brit. Ass. 1841, Sect,
       Contributions to British Actinology
                                                             p. 72.
         Note on the Appendages of the Anthers in the
              Genus Viola,                               Edin. New Phil. Jour. xxx.

          On a New Genus of Ascidian Molluscs,                369.
          On Two Remarkable Marine Invertebrate, in-
                                                         Do., xxxj. 29.
              habiting the .iEgean Sea.
          On Thalasscma and Echiurus, in conjunction     Athenaeum.
                                                         Ann. Nat. Hist. ix. 239 ;
            with Mr. Goodsir.
          On Pelonaia, in conjunction with Mr. Goodsir,      x. 59, 124, 205, 348.
       A History of British Star-fishes. 1 vol. 8vo.     Ann. Nat. Hist. xi. 159.

1842. Letter on the Rev. Mr. Danioll's Travels,                    do. xr. 280.
         Letters on Travels in Lycia, etc                Do., xi. 463 ; Trans. Lin.

1843. On Maianthemum Bifolium                                Soc. xix.
         On a New Star-fish,                             Ann. Nat. Hist. xir. 40.

         On Pectinnra, and the Species of Ophiura in-               do. xii. 188.
              habiting the Eastern Mediterranean.        Pamphlet, published by

          Retrospective Comments (Natural History), ...      Van Voorst.
         Note in Reply to Mr. Hassal,                    Trans. Linn. Soc. xjx. 143.
         Lecture on Botany,                              Athenajum and Literary

       On the Radiata of the Eastern Mediterranean,          Gazette.

       Abstract of Papers read at the British Aaso-      Rep. Brit. Ass. 1843, 130.
                                                         Literary Gazette.
       ciation.
                                                         Ann. Nat. Hist. xur. 306.
       Report on the Mollusca and     Radiata  of the    Literary Gazette, Dec. 9.
           JEgem Sea
                                                                      do.
       " Blarney Unvisitcd," a Song
                                                         Tulk & Henfrey's Manual.
       On the Species of Nesera inhabiting the iEgenn    Lit. Gazette, Jan. 6, 1844.

            Sea

       Deliciaj Scientiarum
       Epigram on Buckland being made M.D.,

1844.  Directions for Dredging,
       " Through Archipelagos of Hearts," a Song,...

                                      2O
578 APPENDIX.

Data.                   Subject.

1844. Father Mattbew's Journey to China, and How                               lit. Gazette, Jan. 27.

       he nearly Broke the Pledge there, a Song,                                        do. do.

       Article on Brown's Chemical Notions                                     Jauieson'sJour.xxxvi.318.

       Lecture on the Bearing of Marine Kesearches                             Athenaeum.
                                                                                        do.
           on Geology                                                                   do.
       Reviews of--                                                                    do.
                                                                                        do.
       Philip's Life of Smith,
                                                                               Proc. Geol. Soc. iv.
       American Geol. Transactions
                                                                               Athenasum.
       Richardson's Geology                                                    Lancet.

       Garner's Staffordshire,                                                      do.
       A iisted 'a Geology,
                                                                               Punch.
       Paper on British Fossil Ophiuridse
       Ahstract of Papers read before the British As                           Ann. Nat. Hist. xiv. 385.
                                                                                        do. do. 410.
       sociation, York
                   M" aVnelsetlilg'ses"oMf eCdreaalstioonf ,C" reation,"       Proc. Lin. Soc. Nov. 1844.
       Review  of                                                         ...
       Review  of                                                              Proc. Geol. Soc. iv.
                                                                               Quart. Jour. Geol. Society,
       Lines (Parody on Kuhla Khan) on Hungorfurd
                                                                                    1.61.
       Bridge
                                                                               Do., I. 79.
       On the Morphology of the Reproductive Sys
                                                                               Do., i. 78.
       tem of the Sertularian Zoophyte
                                                                               Do. I., 145.
       On some Additions to the British Fauna,
                                                                                Do., i. 162.
       On the Medusa Proboscidalis              ..
                                                                               Do., I. 174.
       Report on the Tertiary Fossils of Malta and                              Literary Gazette, Feb. 18.

       Gozo,                                                                               do. Feb. 14.
                                                                                Quart. Jour. Geol. Society,
1845. On somo Cretaceous Fossils from New Jersey,
                                                                                   I. 237, 345.
       Report on Fossils from Southern India (read
           January 31, 1844                                                     Do., i. 408.

       Report on the Lower Greensaud Fossils in the                             Do., i. 190.
           possession of the Geological Society
                                                                                Do., I. 425.
       Account of Two Fossil Species of Creseis (read
           March 1844)

       On the Fossils of the Fresh-water Tertiary For
           mation of the Gulf of Smyrna (read April

             17, 1844)
       Report on the Fossils from Santa Fe de Bogota

            (read May 1, 1844),
       Valentine by a Palaeontologist,

       On some remarkable Analogies between the
            Animal and Vegetable Kingdoms] (Lecture
            at Royal Institution)

       Catalogue of the Lower Greensaud Fossils in
            the possession of the Geological Society.

       On a Nuw Species of t'ardium from the Green-
            sand of Devonshire,

       On the Section botween Black Gang Chine and
            Atherfield Point (in conjunction with Capt.
             Ibbetson),

       On some Echinodermata from the Miocene
            Strata of North America,
                          LIST OF WRITINGS.             579

Puts.                   Sutyeet

1845. On the Distribution of Endemic Plants,             Brit. Ass. Hep. 1815.

       Notice of Additions to the Marine Fauna of                      do.
                                                                       do.
       Britain                                                         do.
                                                         Atheuceum.
       On the Fresh-water Fossils of Cos,               Literary Gazette, Nov. 8.
                                                        Penny (!yclopsedia, Supp.
       On Preserving Medusa;,                                    do. do.
       Notice of Strzelecki's New South Wales
       Reminiscences of Xanthus,                                 do. do.
                                                        Atheimum.
1846.  Brnnchiostoma,                                   Bentley's Miscellany.

       Insects, Gcogrnphical Distribution of,           Quart. Jour. Geol. Society,
       Ichthyology, recent Additions to (and other         ii. 8.

           articles)                                    Do., 346.
       Review of Murchisou's Russia                     Literary Gazette, Feb. 7.

       Report of Potato Commission (a squib in verse,           do. do.
       On the Geology of Lycia (in conjunction with
                                                        Mem. Geol. Sur. i. 336.
           Lieutenant Spratt, R.N.)                     Ann. Nat. Hist. xvm. 284;
       List of Pleistocene FossHs from the Isle of
                                                            Brit. Ass. Rep. 1846.
           Man
                                                        Brit. Ass. Pep. 1846.
       Heview of Murchison's Russia,                             do. do.
       The Poet's Corner
                                                        Van Voorst.
       On the Connexion between the Existing Fauna      Trans. Geol. Soc. 2d Scries,
           and Flora of the British Isles, and the Geo
                                                            Vii.
           logical Changes which have affected their    App. to Darwin's Geology
           Area,
                                                           of South America.
       On the Pulmograde Medusa; of the British
                                                        Jour. Geol. Soc. m. 73.
       Sens.
                                                        Ann. Nat. Hist. in. 96,
       Notices of Natural History Observations bear
                                                             390.
           ing upon Geology                             Do., p. 398.
       Note on Sections of Isle of Wight,
       Travels in Lycia (in conjunction with Lieut.     Quart. Jour. Geol. Society,
                                                            iv. 11.
           Spratt), two vols.
                                                        Athenaeum and Literary
       Monograph on the Cretaceous Fossils of South-        Gazette, May 22.
           em India,
                                                        Brit. Ass. Bep. 1847, Sect.
       On Palaeozoic and Secondary Fossil Molluscs          i. 76.

       of South America.                                Do., 77.
                                                        Literary Gazette, July 3.
       On some Fossils from Samoa and Eubcea (read
                                                        In various papers.
       18th November),           c                      Morning Herald.

1847.  New and Rare British Animals,

       Notice of Munby's Flora of Algiers
       On Orbitolites Mautelli (in Lyell's paper},

       Lecture on the Natural History Features of the
            North Atlantic (Royal Institution).

       On the Families of British Lamellibranchiato
           Mollusca.

       On Dredging Researches in progress,
       The Fate of the Dodo
       Sixteen political leading articles at election

            time,
       Leader on Irish Fisheries
580 APPENDIX.

Data.                                        Subject.        Quart. Jour. Geol. Society,
1847.                                                           m. 216.
       List of Sheila in the Temple of Scrapie (an
1848.      Appendix to Mr. Babbage's paper).

       HiBtory of British Mollusca (with Mr. Honley,         Van Voorst.        Physical
           begun in January)                                 Keith Johnston's

       Palseontological Map of the British Isles, with           Atlas.
           a Summary of British Palaeontology and
                                                             Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist.
            Geology.                                             2d Series, I. 3 17
       On some New Fossil Shells from Barbodoes, ..

       Lecture on the Question whether Generic Cen           Literary Gazette,  Mar.    4.
           tres Exist (Royal Institution)                    In Cumming's       " Isle    of

       Note on the Flora of the Isle of Man

                                                             Man."

         Notice of Discoveries among the British Cys-        Brit. Ass. Rep. for 1848.

                tideae,                                               do. do.
         On some Marine Animals from the British             1 vol. 4to (Ray Society)
                                                             Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist.
              Channel,
         Monograph of the Nuked-Eyed Medusae,                   2d Series, ii. 352.
         Notice of some Peloria Varieties of Viola Canina    Mem. Geol. Sur. n. Part 2,

            (read before Linnaean Society, 6th June).                do. do.
         Monograph of the British Fossil Asteriadae, ...
         Monograph of the Silurian Cystidess of Britain,     Quart. Jour. Geol. Society.
         Memorandum respecting some Fossiliferous Lo-            iv. 297.

            calities alluded to in Mr. Ramsay's and Mr.      Athenssum & Lit. Gazette,
              Aveline's Paper.                                  March 2.
1849. Lecture on the Question, Whether New Species
              have come into Existence since the Creation    Ann. Nnt. Hist., 2d Scries,
                                                                iiI. 507.
              of Man (Royal Institution).
        Note on a Letter from Mr. Macandrew about            Memoirs of the Geological
                                                                 Survey.
              the Mollusca of Vigo Bay.
         British Organic Remains, Decade 1 ; and paper       Brit. Ass. Rep. for 1849.

              on Ampyx, in Decade 2.                                  do. do.
        On the Varieties of the Wild Carrot,
                                                                      do. do.
          On a Monstrosity of a Vinca,
          On the Reproduction of Beroe Cucumis                      do. do.
          On the British Patellaceae,                        Lit. Gazette, Oct. 6.
                                                             Van Voorst.
          Song of the Bertie,                                Quart. Jour. Geol. Society,
          British Mollusca, vol. ii. (with Mr. Hanlcy), ...
1850. Note on Fossiliferous Deposits in the Middle               VI. 343.

              Island of New Zealand.                         Abstracts in Athenaeum
                                                                and Lit. Gazette.
          Lecture on the Distribution of Fresh -water
              Animals and Plants.                            Brit. Ass. Rep. for 1850.
                                                                      do. do.
          On the Succession of Organic Remains in the
              Dorsetshire Purbecks                           Jameson's Jour. October.
                                                             Memoirs uf the Geological
          On the Distribution of European Echini,
         Note of Discoveries in Hebrides                        Snrvoy.
         British Organic Remains, Decade 3, Echino-          Daily News and Medical

                derms.                                           Journal.

          Lecture at the Opening of the Medical Lcc-
            turcs at King's College, London, Oct. 1.
                                LIST OF WRITINGS.                                       581

Dale.                                        Subject                           Quart. Jour. Geol. Society,
I860.                                                                             vi. 195.
       Description of Fossil Echinidae from Portugal
           (a Note to Mr. Sharpe's Paper, read 21st                            Ann. Nnt. Hist. 2d Scries,
           November 1849).                                                        vi. 442.

       On Cardioster                                                           Proc. Zool. Soc. 1850, pp.
                                                                                   63, 270.
       On the Species            of Mollusca  tchoellec"teHderdauldrin"g  the
           S"uPravnedyoinrga."  Voyages of                                and

1851. Article on Sedgwick's Discourse on the Studies

       of the University of Cambridge                                          Lit. Gazette, January 4.

       Article on Bon Gaultier,                                                           do. do.

       Do. Cheever's Whaling,                                                           do. January 11.
                                                                                        do. January 18.
       Do. Physical Geography                                                           do. February 15.
                                                                                       do. April 5.
       Do. Hutton's Chronology of Creation, ...                                        do. April 12.
                                                                                        do. May 17.
       Do. De la Beelie's Geological Observer,                                          do. May 24.
                                                                                        do. March 8.
       Do. Lyell (and on his Speech)                                                   do. July 12.

       Do. Lady M. S. Wortley's Travel ...                                               do.
                                                                               Proc. lioyal. Inst. ; Ann.
       Do. California, by Kelly
       Do. A Trip to Mexico                                                       and Mag. Nat. Hist. 2d
                                                                                  Series, Vii. 232.
       Do. Miss Martineau

       Do. Albert Smith's Constantinople,

       Lecture on Recent Researches into the Natural

       History of the British Seas.

       On the Discovery by Dr. Overweg of Devonian                             Brit. Ass. Bep. for 1851.    ,
           Rocks in North Africa,                                                      do. do.
                                                                                       do. do.
       On the Ecbinodermata of tho Crag,
       On a Now Species of Maclurcn,                                           do. do.
       On some Indications of the Molluscous Fauna
                                                                                       do. do.
           of the Azores and St. Helena
       On a New Testacean discovered during the                                Quart. Jour. Geol. Society,
                                                                                  vii. 104.
           Voyage of H.M.S. Rattlesnake,
       On the Estuary Beds and the Oxford Clay at                              Do., 103.

           Loch Staffin.                                                       Art Journal.
       On the Vegetable Remains from Ardtun Head                               Hunt's Guide ; Illustrated

           (Note to the Duke of Argyle's Paper)                                   Catalogue of Great Ex
       Essay on the Vegetable Works contributed to                                hibition.

           tho Great Exhibition,                                               Lit. Gazette, July 12.
       Notcs on various Vegetable and Animal Pro
                                                                                     do. July 12, 19.
           ducts in the Great Exhibition.
                                                                               Van Voorst.
       Song on Negative Facts,* New Ballad on the                              Voyage of the "Rattle
           State of Geological Science,
                                                                                 snake," vol. ii.
       Reports of the Proceedings of the Natural His                           Lit. Gazette, June 7.
           tory and Geological Sections of the British
           Association at Ipswich,

       British Mollusca, vol. iii. (with Mr. llanley.)
       On Australian Mollusca

       Article on Reveries of a Bachelor,
582 APPENDIX.

Date.                     Subject.

1851. Article on Christmas's Mediterranean                Lit. Gazette, Augusts.

       Do. Neale's Travels in Syria,                                do. Sept. 6.

       Do. Hitchcock's Religion of Geology, ...                      do.
                                                          Records of the School of
       Lecture on Natural History applied to Geology
                                                               Mines, vol. i. Part 1.
       and the Arts.                                      Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist.

       On a Species of jEquorea inhabiting the British       2d Scries, xiv. 294.
                                                          Lit. Gazette, Dee. 20.
       Seas.

       Letter on our National Museums

1852. On Hard Woods used for Ornament (four arti          Art Journal.
                                                          Lit. Gazette,
            cles),                                                       Jan. 24.
       Article on Lyell's Elements, new edition,                    do.  Feb. 7 & 14.

       Do. Sqnier's Nicaragua,

       Reply to Professor Sedgwick                        do. Mar. 20, Ap. 24.

       Article on Mundy's Australia                                 do.  May    22.
                                                                         Geo).   Society,
       Note on Eocene EchinodermaU (Lyell's Paper         Quart. Jour.
                                                              Tin.
           on Belgian Tertiary Formations).
       Note on Marine Zones,                              do. do.

       The Masque of Fraternity (a Poem)                  Weekly News.
       Shell-fish, their Ways and Works,                  Westminst. Review, Jan.

       On the Supposed Analogy between the Life of        Lecture at Royal Institu-
           an Individual and the Duration of Species.         tion ; Ann. & Mag. Nat.

       On the Extinct Land Shells of St. Helena, ...          Hist., 2d Series, z. 59.
                                                          Quart. Jour. Geol. Society,

                                                             viii. 197.

       On Arctic Echinoderms                              Append, to Dr. Sutherland's

                                                          Arctic Voyage.

       Monograph of British Tertiary Echinoderms,         Palajontographical Society,

                                                          vol. for 1852.

       Notices of English Scientific Works,               Westminster Iicview.
       Lecture on Australian Rocks, addressed to Emi-
                                                          Lectures on Gold, pub-
           grants,
       The Future of Geology                                 lished by Boguo.
       Article on Thompson's Thibet, ctr                  Westminster Review, July.
       On the Fossils of the Yellow Sandstone             Lit. Gazette, August 21.

                                                  of the

       South of Ireland,                                  Biit. Ass. Rep. for 1852.

       On a Species of Sepiola new to Britain,                    do. do.
       On a New Map of the Geologicul Distribution

       of Marine Life, and on the Homoiozoic

       Belts                                                       do. do.

       Plants and Botanists                               Westminster Review, Oct.

          British Mollusca, vol. iv.,                     Van Voorst.
1853. Notice of Von Buch                                  Lit. Gazette, March 12.
                                                          Brit. Inst. Rep. for 18i3,
       Lecture on some New Points in British Geo-
                                                              Part. in. 3115.
           logy.                                          Quart. Jour. Gcol. Society,
       On the Fluvio-Marine Tertiariea of the Isle of
                                                              ix. 259.
           Wight.                                         Lit. Gazette, April 9.
       Review of Gray's edition of Leach's Mollusca,      Dublin Univ. Mag., Sept.
                                                          Records of the School ol
       Geology, Popular and Artistic
       Lecture on the Educational Uses of Museums             Mines.

       (October 1).
       LIST OF WRITINGS.                                583

Data.  Subject.

1853. On tho Geology of Lebanon,                        Appendix to Risk Allah Ef-
                                                            fendi's work on Syria.
1854.  The Professorship of Chinese,
       Review of Hooker's Himalaya                      Literary Gazette, Dec. 31.
                                                        Lit. Gaz. Feb. 25, Mar. 4.
           Do. Smyth's Mediterranean
           Do. Martin's Correggio,                           do. March 18.
           Do. Murchison's Siluria                           do. June 3.
                                                             do. June 24.
       Note on Spadix Purpurea,                          Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist.
                                                            2d Series, xilf. 31.
       On the Manifestation of Polarity in the Dis-     Royal Inst. Rep. Part iv.
                                                             428.
           tribution of Organized Beings in Time
           (April 28).                                  Proc. Royal Soc. Mar. 23.
       Note on an Indication of Depth of Primeval       Johnston's Physical Atlas,
           Seas afforded by the Remains of Colour in
                                                           April.
           Fossil Testacea,                             Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc. x.

       Map of Homoiozoic Belts, etc.,                   Edinburgh Monthly Jour.
                                                            of Science.
       Presidential Address at the Geological Society,
       Part of the Natural History Guide-Book for                do. do.
                                                        Do., and Literary Gazette,
           the Crystal Palace at Sydenham.
       Inaugural Address to the Natural History            April 29, 1854.

           Class at Edinburgh.                          Brit. Ass. Rep. for 1854.
       Notice of Balfour's Botany,
                                                                 do. do.
           Do. Professor Jameson,                        Quarterly Review, Oct.

          On Foliation of Metamorphic Rocks in Scot     Edin. New Phil. Journal,
                                                            January 1855.
                 land,
          On some Points connected with the Natural     Memoirs of the Geological
                                                            Survey.
              History of the Azores
          Article on Murchison's Siluria,               One vol. 12mo, Van Voorst.
1855. Introductory Lecture to Natural History Class

              at Edinburgh, Session 1854-55.
1858. On the Fluvio-Marine Tertiary Strata of the

            Isle of Wight (completed by Mr. Austen,
              Professor Ramsay, and Mr. Bristow).
1859. Natural History of the European Seas (con
              tinued and completed by Mr. Austen)
Arerdeen, Chair of Natural History                    Blackie, Professor, 272, 290.

        at, 272.                                      Blackwood's Magazine, 193.
yT-Kt-an Sen, visit to, 269, 274.                     Blytt, M., of Christiania, 209.
                                                      Board of Trade, transfer of Survey and
Agassis, Professor, 263, 264.                            School of Mines to, 617.
Aitken, Mr., letter to, 237.
Algiers, visit to, 230.                               Bondhuus, glacier of, 211.
Alison, Professor, 173, 188.
Amorgo, visit to, 287.                                Botany, Chair of, at Ring's College,
Anatomy Bill, introduction                                   London, 806, 323.
Arendal, visit to, 207.                               "  Bridgewater-writing,"
s                                           95.                                   Forbes's opi
                                       of,
                                                         nion of, 647.

Argyle. Duke of, 626.                                 Bristow, Mr., 453, 483, 501.
Arthur Seat, Edinburgh, Forbea's geo                  Britain, Fauna and Flora of, 394, 396,

       logical theory of, 658.                                538.
Ashworth, Miss, 440,                                  British geology, on somo new points in,

Asia Minor, visit to, 297.                                    516.
Association, British, 225, 239, 245, 462,             Brotherhood of Friends of Truth, 191,

308, 349, 369, 388, 399, 420, 442,                            340, 380, 387.

        455, 475, 488, 499, 563.                      Brown, Dr. Samuel, 266, 340, 361.
Athenaeum Club, Forbes elected a mem                  Burke and Hare, atrocities of, 92.

        ber of, 384.                                  Cairi, visit to, 290.
Atlantic, lecture on the North, 417.                  Cambridge, visits tc, 355, 388.
                                                      Campbell, Principal, Aberdeen,
Attwood, Mrs. Melville, 350, 364.                                                         146,
        Notes of Forbes's early days, 65.             ---203.                             431,
                                                              Letter to, 216.
Auvergne, visit to, 521.                              CCaanrndiioal,a,27v5is^it to, 238-
Aveline, Mr. Talbot, 401.                             Centres of distribution, generic,

Bachelorhood, Forbes's opinion                   of,           451.

        438.                                                    Specific, 168.
Balfour, Professor, 106, 845, 567, 668,               Ccrigotto, visit to, 293.
                                                      Chartist meetings of 1848, 432.
        569.                                          Christiania, visit to, 214.
Ball, Mr. Robert, 261.                                Christison, Professor, 125.
Bathymctrical classification of the Ma
                                                      Clyde, Firlh of, 245.
       rine Fauna, 265, 299.                          Copenhagen, visit to, 210.
"Beacon," the, 186, 275.                              Cork, visit to, 350.
Belfast, 261, 499.
Belgium, visits to, 238, 498.                         Costumo, Norwegian, 208.
Bell, Sir Charles, 177.                               Craig's Court Museum, 377, 383, 394,
Bennett, Professor, 121, 175, 180, 567,
                                                              432.
        669.
Bentlcy, Professor, 532.                              Crystal Palace, dinner at, 531.
Bcrangcr, Forbes's admiration of, 243.                Cupar-Fife, lectures at, 254.
Bergen, 209.
Bertie Cucutnis, paper on, 466.                       Daniem., Kev. Mr., 302, 306.
Birmingham, 245, 468.                                 Day, Professor, 337.
Birth of son, 480.                                    Dean Cemetery, 667, 572.

          daughter, 499.
586 INDEX.

De la Beche, Sir Heury, 359, 375, 390,       Forbes, Mrs., 444, 446, 450, 452, 454,
       401,411,499,502.
                                                     456, 464, 467, 489, 504, 509, 510,
Dicynodon, properly cleaned and dress
                                                     519, 522, 530, 555, 562, 564, 567,
         ed, 335.
Distribution of terrestrial Pulmonifera           J.569, 570, 571, 572.

       in Europe, 239.                               Professor D., 118.
Dodo, Song of the, 420.                      Forth, Firth of, 161.
Dorsetshire, visits to, 434, 453, 519.       Fossil Marine Animals, Natural History
Douglas, Isle of Man, 35.
Drawing, Forbes's skill in, 212, 559.               and Geographical Distribution of,
Dredging Committee, institution 240.
                                                      383
         Song, 247.                          France, Tours in, 219, 228, 521, 531.
Drew, Dr., of Southampton, letter to,        Fresh-water Animals and Plants, Dis

         511.                                       tribution of, 473.
Dublin visit, 429, 446.                      Fullerian Professorship, 366.
Dumfriesshire, excursions in, 562, 565.      of,
                                                                                                     a
Edinruroh, advantages of, for field ob       Gakvim, Mr., 57.
                                                     his notes of Forbes, 59, 72.
        servation, 162.
        Forbes's visits to, 87, 327, 382.    Geology, light thrown on by submarine
        Student life in, 87, 136.                    researches, 362.
        Lectures at, 240, 265, 263.
        Philosophical Association, lectures  Geological Society, 296, 324, 334, 397,
         at, 240.
         Academic Annual, 255.                       533.
         College Museum, 109, 556.                    Curatorship of, 324, 329.
         College of Surgeons of, 137.                 Forbes elected Fellow of, 379.
         Extra-academical School of, 137.             Forbes proposed as President of,
         Medical School of, 90, 136.
         Philosophical Journal, 109, 566,           507.
                                                      Anniversary dinner of, 515.
         568.                                Geological Survey, 359, 376.
         Physical Society, 141.                       Anniversary dinner of, 411.
         School of Natural History, 654.              Nomadic lile of, 469.
         student clubs, 188.
         Town-Council, 232, 533, 570.                 Reports of, 395, 396, 430, 432.
         Ch:iir of Natural History, 807,              placed under Board of Trade, 517.
         357, 393, 404, 409, 410, 444, 448,  Germany, visit to, 219.
                                             Gibbs, Mr. Bichard, 401, 602.
         450, 469, 487, 522, 525, 528, 532,  Godwin-Austen, Mr., 452, 571.
         558. 566, 670.                      Goodsir, Professor, 143, 144, 175, 272,
         Meeting of British Association at,           311, 328, 355, 381, 476, 569, 570,

         475.                                         571.
         Forbes's return to, 552.
         Introductory Lecture at, 161, 552.  Government grant, 365, 403.
                                             Graham, Professor, 103.
 European seas, Natural History of the,      Graves, Captain, 269, 275, 328, 347,
          479.
                                                      362, 406.
 Exhibition of 1851, 485.                             Letter to, 410.

                                             Guernsey, visit to, 245.

                                             Hampshire, 434.

                                             Hanley, Mr., 420, 431.
                                             Hastings, Marchioness of, 422, 423,

                                             434.

Faraday, Professor, 361.                     HaveCnreewatiSopne?ciesAaplepcetaurreed,                   since  Man's
                                                                                                        450.
Fellowcs, Sir Charles, 302.
Fever, attack of, in the .-Kgcan Sea,        Hebrides, visits to, 204, 225, 390, 476.

308.                                         Helvetic Society, 223.
,                                 336, 354.  Histology, study of, introduced by Dr.
                             of,
liecurrenns                                         Bennett, 121.
Field excursions ut liondon, 315, 495.       Hitchcock, Religion of Geology, 4',)2.
        at Edinburgh, 560, 561, 662.
Fleetwood, Mr., notes of Forbes, 60.         Honeymoon Cottage, 444.
                                             Hope, Professor, 98, 181.
Fleming, Dr., 272, 357, 526.                 Horner, Mr. Leonard, letters                               to, 525,
Folgefond, the, 211.
Forbes, Mr. David, 39, 352.                          528.
                                             Howard, Bcv. Mr., his account of
        Kdward. Sec Table of Contonts.
 Mr. (his rather), letters to, 176,          Forbes, 60.
178, 226, 231, 240, 253, 309.
                                             Huxley, 1'rofessor, 532.
                                       INDEX.                                                                            587

Hyndman, Mr., 261.                             Lillehammer, visit to, 213.
Hythe, visit to, 530, 631.                     Linnsean Society, 843.

Jameson, Professor, 108, 408, 522, 525.        Listen, Professor, 134.
        De«th of, 632.
                                               Liverpool, 369, 663.

                                               Lectures at, 256.
         Forbes's enloginm 553.of,             Loch Lomond, excursion to, 562.
Jardin des Plantes, visit to, 220.             London, first visit to, 71.
                                                              A
Jermyn Street Museum, 431, 447, 452,                    Residence in, 76.
                                                                                                   of,
         466, 469, 477, 486.                                                                                .Becomes Professor of Botany in,
Iguanodon, dinner in bellv of, 631.
Illness, 808, 336, 854, 892, 469, 562,         328.

         667.                                  Forbes leaves, for Edinburgh, 534.
Inchkeith, excursion to, 661.                  Institution, 395.
                                               Lumsden, Dr., 229.
Johnston, A. Keith, Physical           Alias,
                                               Lycia,"  298, 299, 304.
         427, 482.                                                                                           394,  486.
Ipswich, visit to, 481.                                 Travels in," 303,
Ireland, visits to, 261, 349, 390, 412,
                                               Lyell, Sir Charles, 429, 483, 524, 532.
                                               Lyme, 417.
        429, 446, 477, 489, 499, 530.
Irish Sen, 218.                                Lymnea, Notice of experiments on, 64,
                                               160.
Jukes, Mr., 401, 428, 445, 457, 490,

499, 530, 564.                                 Macanprew, Mr., 368, 389, 397, 442,
 Letters to, 458, 502, 531, 565.
                                               476.
                                               Macaskill, Mr. Donald, 190.
Knox, Dr., 139, 178.
King's College, London, Chair of Botany        Mncgillivrny, Mr., 273.
                                               M" nMcargi,n,OUnnlfivoef,rs2it9y8,." 175, 181, 190,236.
        at, 306, 323, 448, 475, 532.           Mnlacologia Monensis, 167, 237,
        Lectures at, 343, 417, 422, 435,
                                               Malta, 274.
         499.

Llanreris, 446.                                Man, npcaranco        451

Llangollen, 444.                               Man, Isle of, 1-36, 166, 203, 218, 232,
Lament for the Sea Kings, 19.
Laughton, Mr. Jas. Brotherstone, 190.          239, 260, 271, 406, 431, 449, 489,
Lectures on Natural History, Forbes's
                                               527.

       opinion regarding, 611.                 Marine life, Map of the Distribution of,
Lecture, Forl>es's first, 240.
Lectures, 240, 253, 264, 256,265, 266,         482.

                                               Fauna, Bathvmetrical Classifica
                                               tion of, 256, 29'9.
268, 343, 362, 383, 394, 395, 417,
                                               Marlborongh House, 527.
418, 431, 450, 473, 479, 483, 516,
                                               Marriage, Forbes's, 443.
        517, 532, 553.                         Materia Medica, 126.

Letters to --                                  Medical School, Edinburgh, 136.

Mr. Aitkon, 237.                               Mediterranean, 230.

Principal Campbell, 216.                       Mcdnsic, Monograph of naked-eved,
Dr. Drew, 511.
                                               430.
 Mr. Forbes (bis fnthor), 176, 178,
226, 231, 240, 253, 309.                       Mines, School of, 447, 486, 492, 507,
 Sir R. Murchison, 615, 524, 561.              515, 522, 533.
 Dr. Percy, 179, 186, 238, 277,
                                               Lectures at, 494, 497, 517, 531.
                                                       placed under Board of Trade, 517.
384, 455.                                      Minorca, visit to, 230.
                                               "Molhisca, History of British," 420,
Mr. Patterson, 255, 261, 295, 414,

480.                                                   422, 457, 479, 490, 497, 508, 515
                                               Monro, Dr., 185.
Mr. Ramsay, 396, 417, 423, 428,

448, 454, 457, 463, 464, 466, 478,             Mother, death of, 177.
                                               Murchison, Sir Roderick, 399, 403, 475,
488, 492, 603, 508, 624, 554.                  634.

 Mr. Reeks, 602, 607.                  264,    Letters to, 515, 624, 561.
 Mr. Thompson, 244, 261,

268, 294, 830, 331, 338, 348, 366,                     Review of his Siluria, 665.
                                               Museum, Educational uses of 511,522.
860, 871, 885, 891, 393, 394, 406,                                                                             a,

409, 442, 443, 456, 473, 481, 499,             at Craig's Court, 377, 883.

491.                                           at Edinburgh, 110, 656.

Mr. Van Voorst, 250.                           at .Tcnnvn Street, 4.11, 447, 452,

Dr. O. Wilson, 339, 352, 413.                  4C6, 469, 477, 485.
588 INDEX.

Naks, visit to, 208.                           454, 457, 463, 464, 466, 478, 488,
Nature, Forbes's early devotion to, 4.S.
                                               492, 503, 508, 524, 554.
         his views of, 546.
Natural History of the British Seas,           Rathke, Professor, 214.
                                               Red Lions, 247, 248, 263, 379, 388,
       Recent Researches into, 483.
         Forbes's opiuion regarding Lec        389, 420, 421, 443, 466, 475, 489,

         tures on, 511.                                499, 656, 666.

Navariuo, Bay of, 274.                         Red Sea, 308, 311.
Naxia, 280, 294.                               Recks, Mr., letters to, 602, 507.
Newcastle, visit to, 239.                      Reid, Dr. D. B.. 101.
North, Christopher, 193.                       Religion of Geology, Hitchcock's, 492.
Norway, Voyage to, 203.                        Reptiles, Poisonous, absence of from

Norwegian Costume, 208.                               Ireland and the Isle of Man, 169.
                                               Researches, Retrospective view of For

"0.OEiu.erMom, a2t4h2s.," Order of, 194, 198.           bes's, 312, 536.
                                               Rhodes, 302.

                                               Robertson, Mr. Patrick, Counsel for the

                                               Edinburgh Student*                                                 the year
Old lied Sandstone, Fossils     of,490.
                                                                    of,

                                                                                                              in
                                                                                                                 a
Organized Beings, Geological and Geo                   1838, 236.
       graphical Distribution of, 395.
                                               "Royal Hammerers," 412, 498.

Geographical Distribution of, 479.             Royal Institution, 362, 383, 384, 394,
Manifestation of Polarity in the
                                               417, 418, 431, 450, 473, 479, 483,

distribution of, 532, 543.                     576, 632.                                                            Fellow
                                                Society, Forbes elected
Orkneys, 205, 245.
Oxford, 420.                                   378.

Pai~£Ontoo;kafiucai. Sociktt, Forma            St. Andrews, visit to, 241.
                                                       Lecture at, 253.
         tion of, 412.                                 Proposed Professorship of Natural
Palaiontology, Forbes's connexion with,               History at, 252, 266.

         550.                                  Santorin, 289.
Palaeontologist to Geological Survey,          Sass, Mr., Forbes becomes a student

       Forbes appointed, 378.                          under, 71.
Pahcoutologkai Map of British Islands,
                                               Saxony, King of, 365.
        427, 431.               295,  414,           in of,
                                               Sedgwick, Professor, 563.
Paris, visit to, 219.                          Surtulariun Zoophyte, Morphology of the
        Student life in, '226.
                                                      Reproductive System of the, 370.
Paros, 276.                                    Shctlanda, visit to, 244, 389.
Patterson, Mr., 261.                           Smith, Mr., of Jordanhill, 245.
                                               Smyrna, Gulf 311.
        Letters to, 255, 261,                  Smyth, Professor W., 140, note.
                                               Snow-ball riots Edinburgh, 232.
        480.                    186, 238,      "Snow-drop, The University," 237.
                                connexion      Southampton, 399.
Peel, Sir Robert, 365, 403.                    Special Constable, Forbes sworn in as,
Percy. Dr., letters to, 179,
                                                       433.
        277, 384, 455.                         Speeilic centres of distribution of plants

Playfair, Dr Lyon, 527.                               and animals, 168.
Poetry and Natural History,                    Sprntt, Lieutenant, 280, 302, 362, 406.
                                               "StSatfaforrdFsishhirees,CHoaisl-tfoieryld,o4f 2B8r.itish," 250,
        of, 414.
Polarity, Manifestation of, in the distri              253, 266, 268, 273, 326.

       bution of Organized Beings iu time,     S(avenger, 210.
        532, 543.
                                               Stethoscope, 132.
Psycho-Zoology, 318.                           Stewart, Mr. Charles Erskine, 190.
Pulinonil'crous Mollusca, Bcport on            Stowell, Miss, her account of Forbes,

       British, 244.                                   48.
        on the distribution of, iu Europe,     Student life in Edinburgh, 87, 136.

        239.                                           in Paris, 226.
Purbeck Strata, Geology of, 460-409.           Styria, visit to, 238.
                                               Surgoous, Edinburgh College of, 137.
"Baurles of n Naturalist," 270, 336,           Swanagc, 434, 478.

        357.
Ramsay, Professor, 263, 359, 424, 426,

        429, 483.
        Letters to, 396, 417, 423, 428, 448,
                                         INDEX.                                 589

Swansea, 442.                                 Verses, Dredging Song, 247.
Switzerland, visit to, 220, 222.                  Lament for the Sea Kings, 19.
Symc, Profcssor, 134.                             0. E. M., 242.
Syra, 375.                                        Song of Dodo, 421.

Thesis, Forl>es's Inaugural, 178.                 The Anatomy Bill. 95.
Thompson, Mr., 2G1, 280, 274.                     The Vision of'Going up," 182.
                                                       Valentine,
        letters to, 234, 261, 2G4, 268, 294,  '*  Vestiges of        387.       History  of
                                                                   the Natural
        330, 331, 338, 318, 356, 360, 371,        Creation," 383.
       385, 391, 393, 394, 406, 409, 442,
                                              Vienna, visit to, 238.
        443, 456, 473, 481, 489, 491.
Turner's, Frofcssor, Lectures, 173.           Wales, 218, 368, 401, 424, 444.
                                              Wornerian Society, 239, 244.
Univensty Club, 255.                          Wight, Isle of, 362, 483, 502, 520, 530
""MSnaogwa,d" ro1p7,5",
                         181,  190,236.               Geology of, 505, 509.
                         237.                 Wilson, Dr. George, 381.

Vacation Rambles, 203.                                Letters to, 339, 352, 413.
Van Voorst, Mr., 250, 462.
Verses, List of, 62.                          Xantman Marbles, 302, 408.

        Amatory, 436.                         Zoo-Geolooy, 320, 537.

      A Night Scene, 257.

               EIIIIATUM.
P. 313, I. 25, for in organic, read inorganic.

              Kmxnuxgn : t. coxstahi.e,
rniNTF.lt TO THE QUEKX, AKI> TO TUB OXIViRsITV.
$Ufo Wax\\B anb                                         (JBbttbits

                                                PUBLISHED BT

         MACMILLAN AND CO.

                    CAMBRIDGE,

AND 23, HENRIETTA STBEET, COVENT GARDEN, LONDON, W.C.

M AC MILL AN'COMPLETION OP THE THIRD VOLUME. '                         S

                EDITED BY DAVID MASSON.

         III.I. to  PRICE ODE SHILLING MONTHLT.

Volumes             are now published, price 7s. Od. each,           handsomely

                    bound in cloth.

''                  RAVENSHOE;                              /

   On, The Adventures or a Yoonq Ekolisb Gentleman.

                Is now in course of publication in this Magazine. -

        VACATION TOURISTS, ; ,
AND NOTES OF TRAVEL IN 18G0.

.        EDITED BT FRANCIS GALTON, M.A. F.R.S.                              '  t·
                                                                       .

                8vo. cloth, price 14s. with Mnps and Illustrations,

Contents :-- 1. Kapks and Garibaldi, by W. G. Clark, M.A. F.R.G.8.

2. Croatia and Hungary, by G. SroTtlswoODE.             3. Slavonic Races,
by R. D. 4. Sntherhndshire, by G. H. K.
Bowen. 6. Graian Alps and Mount . Iseran,               5.  PJe.rmJ*.  by C. C.
                                                        by             Cowell.
   7. Allelcin-JIorn, by Leslie Stetjien, M.A. 8. Mont Ccrvin
                  by F. V. Hawkins,    bMy.AJ..         Jjutcitini nor, by
   (Mattcrhorn),  F.R.S. 10. Iceland,               9.  Clark, M.A. 11.

   J. Tyndali,                                   W.
Koncny, by H. F. Tozer, M.A. 12. North Spain and
by the Editor. 13. Syrian                                             (ho Eclipse,
Roden Noel, M.A.           Travel      and Syrian       T'ribes,     by the Hon.
                                                        ,
" It was a happy thought io collect into a volume the notes of a number of travellers
made In die course of last year. Here arc thirteen gentlemen who have hern all over the
world. In all sorts of place», fnr all snrts of purposes, and who give us the result of their
experiences In thirteen most nmuslng essays ailinirably edited by Mr. (ialton." -- Timet,
April 4, IWI1.

   tlAM.                   A

3,000I»cmy.

                                       I
   2 NEW WORKS AND NKW EDITIONS,

            BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG.
'//Jit!ITOM
            BRO. IW' )S  Prior Fivb Shillings eacu.                                        ·, I ',

                         I · '/·
                         SCHOOL-DAYS.' By An Old Boy.
                                                                                                      With

            a new Preface. Twenty-sixth. ThouatndO Fcap. 8vo. 5s.
   " Thoso manly, honest thoughts, expressed In plain words, will, we (rust, lone lind in
echo In thousands of English hearts."-- Quarterly litvUu.                              '·

OUR ACYulaEtkhAeorrRok.ofDoA"eJoeChlln.hildHR'oasylifaalBxo.lf"olmk.o.iWnclioPtthrho,'sguetilutanonlerdaovueRgs,hy5Ilm*lu. est.ra't'ioBnys  tho
                                                                                                                                             by

   MJust the book yrecould,wish lo'see in the hande of every child."-- Kngluih Churchman.

PROFESSOR KLNGSLEY'S 'HEROES, OR GREEK FAIRY
            TALES FOR MY CHILDREN. New Edition, with Illustrations.
            Royal 16ino. cloth, gilt leaves, £>s.                                          ;

an"dAmawnciliceur.i"n--e aEncdlecdteicligRhetvfuiel wv. olume*,for the stories  are prose poems both as to matter
RUTH AND HER FRIENDS'. A                                                        t * 11

                                                                                Story for Girls. With
          Frontispiece. Third Edition. Royal 16mo. cloth, gilt leaves, 5x.
   " A book which girls will read with avidity, and cannot fall to profit by."-- lllcrary
ihurchmau
                                                                     J.

DAYS OF            OofLD" Ru: thStoarnidesH, efrromFrieOndlsd."/EngWliisthh             History.      By the
                                                                                       Frontispiece.
           Author                                                                                        Royal
   ...16mo. cloth, gilt leaves, 5s.
   " A delightful little book, full  of Interest aud instruct                   Ion .      flue feeling, dramatic
weight, and descriptive power in     the stories." -- literary                  Gazette.

AGNES HOPETOUN'S                     SoCf H" MOaOrgLaSret                       AND HOLIDAYS. By
                                                                                              With Frontis
         Msg. Oliphakt (Author                                                  Maitland
   piece. Royal 6mo. cloth, gilt leaves, 6siA.
                         a1
                                                                       . ").
   " Described with exquisite reality . .teaching the >oung pure and good
lessons.*-- John BulL

LITTLE ESTELLA, AND OTHER FAIRY TALES. By
   Mat Beverxkt. With Frontispiece. Royul lflmo. cloth, gilt

             leaves, St.                                                                      . . genuine story

   " Very pretty, pure in conception, aud simply, gracefully related

telling."-- Vaily AfiM.

DAVID, KING OF ISRAEL                                                   History for the Young. By
   Josiau WRianT, Head Master of Sutton Coldficld Grammar School.
          With Illustrations. Royal 16mo. cloth, gilt leaves, St.
   " An excellent book . . . well conceived, and well worked out."-- Liiemry <7nmA»ui,,.

MY FIRST JOURNAL:                                                               Book for Children. By
                                                                     A

                                                                                     It
                                                                                                                          ..
                                                                                                                                .
   Ceokciana M. Cm ik, Author of " Lost and Won." Wiih Frontis
   piece. Royal lflmo. cloth, gilt leaves, 4s. 6of.
   " True
   wuik cf  to Nature and to hue     kitnodne<.!*.f"u--atduorleef..  .   .  the attic  slap'.' aad gri.ccfu!
             Art, ck\er and Ltalthy
a
             PUBLISHED BY MACMILLAN AND CO.                                                                    3

              POPULAR NOVELS-

ELSIE VENNElt ; A ROMANCE OF DESTINY. By

         0. W. IIolmks, Author of "The Autocrat of the Breakfast Tabic."
            Fcap. 8 vo. cloth, price 6*.
    '·A remarkable work, bright with intelligence, humour, and warmth of heart.' --GUbe.

THE        MOOR COTTAGE:                   A TALE OF           HOME              LIFE By
           Mat Bivirlet, Author of
                                           " Little Estclla,  and other         Fairy Talcs for

           the Young." Crown 8vo. cloth, price 10*. 6d.

   "This charming tale it told with such excellent art, that it reads like an episode from
real life."-- Ath'i.

                             A Six Shilling Edition of
PROFESSOR KINGSLEY'S WESTWARD HO! Crown
           8vo. cloth.

    "Almost the best Historical Novel, to our mind, of the day."-- Frtuet'i Magazine.

                               A Six SniLuno Edition or
PROFESSOR KINGSLEY'S TWO YEARS AGO. Grown
            8vo. cloth.
    "  Genial, large-hearted,  humorous,  with  a quick   eye, and   a keen relish  ianlimkeanfo."r--wThhart
                                                genuine,    strong,   and earnest
is  beautiful in nature, .and for what Is
Guardian.
                               A Six SniLLraa Edition or
MR. HENRY KINGSLEY'S RECOLLECTIONS OF
           OEOFFRY HAMLYN.
    " Mr.                                  Crown    8vo. cloth.      the  eye and the heart of a
           Henry Kingsley is no ordinary   writer.   He has both
poet; and like a true poet he knows how to reach the hearts of others." -- Freeman.

ARTIST AND CRAFTSMAN.
           Crown 8vo. cloth, price 10». 6d.
    " Its power) is unquestionable, its felicity of expression great, its plot fresh, and its
characters   very natural . . .  Wherever  read, it will  be enthusiastically       admired and
cherished."  -- Morning Herald.

A LADY IN HER OWN RIGHT. By Westland Mabston.
             Crown 8vo. cloth, price 10*. fid.
  "    Since 'The Mill on the Floss ' was noticed, we have read no        work  riogfhtfic:t'iotnhewphliocth.
       can so heartily recommend to our readers as 'A Lady In her         own
we
Incidents, and characters are all good : the style is simple and graceful : It abounds in
thoughts ludicrously Introduced and well expressed, and throughout a kind, libera], and
gentle spirit."-- CAure* of England Monthly Reviev.

....NO; THEYES AND                                                                  GREAT
                                 on, GLIMPSES OF
    U"                                                                          lift 6d.
           CONFLICT. Three       Vols, crown 8vo. cloth, price

       Original In conception    Of the merits of the book as a piece of writing,         it Is
almost Impossible to speak too highly-- so unaffectedly sincere, so clear and impressive
so graceful and so strong is it."-- Koncon/ormist.

BRITISH NOVELISTS AND THEIR STYLES ; boing n

         Critical Skelch of the History of British Prose Fiction. By Davip
         Masson, M.A. Crown 8vo. cloth, 7». Crf.

                                                                   A2
4 NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS,

                          ROME IN 1860.

By Edward Dicey.                                    Crown 8vo. cloth, price Or. fx/.

" The uniting of the whole bock is lent, direct, and, because of sound judgment
       in selection of details, and the total      abienee of waste writing,                                                        itvsersyubgjeracpt.h''i--c.
       Written in plain unaffected English,        intent everywhere upon
     ExiHiMER, March 23, 1861.
"   So striking and apparently so faithful  a portrait.          It is the Rome of real life he

       has depicted."-- Spectator, March 23, 1361.

                 THE ITALIAN WAR OF 1848-9,
And the Last Italian Poet. By the late Henry

       IiUSHINGTON, Chief Secretary to the Government of Malta.

       With a Biographical Preface by G. Stovin Yenaui.es.

                  i Crown 8vo. cloth, Gj. Grf.

    "As the writer warms with his subject, he reaches a rery uncommon and charac
       tl--aenritgshuteiacgtaedsekigsrfoeuefllgoifoviefnxgecleolhqleiusnetconerc.ieca.TlhePuennriahtyrar,pasdtiivgtenhietbyme, cooasmntdedsiiflnfiivtceeurllyetstao,nftdoaglerlavl/eiithneitcrsa,sroaymretiacestkhnset
       as to be still encumbered with all the       details with  .w.h/icMh r.neLwusshpmapgefrosn, invinesat
       them-- has never been more successfully      discharged.

       very short compass, shows the true nature and sequence of the event, and gives
       dittorattmohpaeotiswcsheinostlsee."res--sttoSrywahioiucfhktuhnaeottsoRtrneuegvngieelewws.apnadpedrerfeeaadt eor finIttaelny   a degree of unify and

                                                                                                                                    thousand ever supposed

               SCOURING OF THE WHITE HORSE.
    the Author of "Tom Brown's School Days."
By
      With numerous Illustrations by Richard Doyle. Eighth Thou
       sand. Imp. lOmo. printed on toned paper, gilt leaves.
                                                                                                                                    8*. Hd.

       The execution is excellent. . . . Like Tom Brown's School Days, the While Horse
        gives the reader a feeling of gratitude and personal esteem towards the author.
         The author could not hare a better style, nor a better temper, nor a more
        excellent artist than Sir. Doyle to adorn his book."-- SatUKDAI Reyi tw.

               EDITED BY W. G. CLARK, M.A.                                                                                                                                                                              <

                   Public Orator in Ihe University of Cambridge.

George Brinilcy's Essays. With Tortrait.
                                                    Edition. Fcap. Svo. cloth. 5s.
    "                               Second

       One of the most    dcligli'fnl and precious  rolumes      thoef ycrwitiicltisamiscUthnaet                                    has ap/teareit
        in the\e days. .   . . To rmy cultivated     render                                                                         the vundtrful

       ··/.ii  nris of perception,  the t/eticary   of frcting,  the pure ttiste. an-t the remarl-
                iirm and ticcisive   judgment      wkirh nr.:    the characteristics of utl Mr.
       i.'li
       Il*:uiti i,'s writings on sirljects that rcif'(* penetrated and fully pvssesied his
               NoNt'O.NrOEMI8T.
                                                          *

          PUBLISHED BY MACMILLAN AND CO.                              5

Cambridge Scrap-Book. Containing in a Pictorial Form a

   Report on the Manners, Customs, Humours, and Pastimes of

   the University of Cambridge. Containing nearly 300 Illustra

   tions. Second Edition.             Crown 4to. half-bound, Is. 6rf.

Volunteer's Scrap-Book. A Series of Humorous Sketches

          Illustrative of the Volunteer Movement. By the Author of the
         " Ca.mjsr.idge Scrap-Book.." Fancy boards, half-bound, 7s. Gd.

               NEW VOLUME BY DR. TEMPLE.

Sermons preached in Rugby School Chapel in 1858,
        1859, 1860. By the Rev. Frederick Temple, D.D.

          Chaplain in Ordinary to Her Majesty, Head-Master of Rugby
          School, Chaplain to the Right Hon. the Earl of Denbigh.

                                                                                           8vo. price 10*. 6<f.

                BY ALEXANDER SMITH,

             Author oj a " Ufa Drama, and olhtr Poem:"

City Poems.                                      Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s.

" Be has attained at times lo a quiet continuity of thought, and sustained strength
  of coherent utterance . . . he gives us many passages that sound the deeps of
 feeling ,andleate us satisfied Kith their sweetness."-- No»tu British Riview.

A Life Drama and other Poems.                    Fcap. 8vo. cloth, is. Grf.

             BY JOHN MALCOLM LUDLOW,

                                     Barrister -at- Law.

British India, its Races, and its tlistory, down to the Mutinies of

   1857.                                         . 2 vols. fcap. 8vo. cloth, 9*.

"  The best historical Indian manual  existing,  thoeneInihdaiat nouqguhetsttioonb.'e'*--in EthxeAMhalntfdZsRo. f
    every man who writes, speaks, or  votes on

" The best elementary work on the History of India"-- Homiward Mail.
*

6 NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS,

WORKS BEARING ON THEOLOGICAL DIFFICULTIES.

            FOR STUDENTS AND QENERAL READERa

     BY THE REV. T. R. BIRKS,
   Author of "Tin Life of the Rev. It. Blckerelelh."

Difficulties of Belief, in connexion with Creation

and the Fall.                  Crown 8to. cloth, 4j. 6rf.

                   BY THE REV. F. D. MAURICE.

                                   Incumbent of St. Piter' i, Maryleione.

Theological Essays. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10*. Crf.

BY THE REV. HENRY CALDERW00D.
                      Of Oregfriare* Church, Glaegow.

Philosophy of the Infinite :
        A Treatise on Man's Knowledge of the Infinite Being, in Answer
        to Sir Wb. Hamilton and Mr. Mansel.

                               Second Edition, greatly enlarged. 8vo. cloth, 14*.

              BY THE REV. H. C. GROVES, M.A.
                         Perpetual Curate of Mullavilly, Dlocete of Armagh.

A Commentary on the First Book of Moses, called

Genesis. For the Use of Students and Readers of the

English Version of the Bible.  Crown 8ro. cloth, 9*.

   BY THE REV. B. F. WESTCOTT,

        Late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.

Characteristics of the Gospel Miracles. Sermons preaohed

         before the University of Cambridge. With Notes.
                                                             Crown 8vo. cloth, 4*. id.

BY THE REV. J. LLEWELYN DAVIES,
   Rector of Chriet Church, SI. Marglebone.

The Work of Christ ; or, the World reconciled to God.
With a Preface on the Atonement Controversy. Fcap.8vo. cloth, 6j.

   J.BY
   THE         ofR"ECVh.ritl     M. CAMPBELL,

   Author                      the Bread of life."

The Nature of the Atonement, and its Relation to

Remission of Sins and Eternal Life. Sro.clotb, 10*. 6d.

                       BY THE REV. R. TUDOR,
                                                Curate of Ileteton, Cornwall.

The Decalogue viewed as tho Christian's Law :

         With Special Reference to the Questions and Wants of the Times.
                                                                             Crown 8ro. cloth, 10*. 6d.
            1'UBUtSHtCD BV MAClilLtlN XNb 00.                                                                                  7

The Platonic' Dialogues,.' for English Readers. By
      W. Whewell, DD\ F.R.S. Master of Trinity College, Cam
   III. ......·'
      bridge.                     ,C                        .r                                   i ·/ j . : (
                         containing                    the Republic.                            Anti-so[pInhitshte       Press.
      "Volume        I.
      Volume             Second Edition, containing                                       the'                            Dia
             II.logues. ,7*. 6rf. . . .n N
                                                                      .. ,                       . ,.

   " Volume              containing the ^ochatic. Dialogues. G*. 6rf.
      In ihe present instance ice have most appropriately one of the deepest thinkers
      goafrbth, etoprtehseenEtndgaliyshmarkeiandgetrh, easPlatthoenyicareDiainlog"uthees  as intelligible in an          English
                                                                                          original to himself            and the
      comparatively few scholars. . . '. The Dialogues are rendered additionally in-
      telhgible, and, indeed, interesting to the English' redder, by copious explanatory
      fwproahsmicshatghdeeisstttirhnargnouswilsanhteidnthppeoarrtterinoantnhsselatitbciyoanllbye^tinhhgreoruuengfaihncodcuotmt,hpearIennfieaadndddbiystiuotfhnfiectimeonattrhlykissd, oitshftieqnugtoruatiasnhtsieloadn
                                                       while   bcoynncolumsioenanos ftheeaclehaDstiavloagluuaeb."le--poGrtieonnstlio- f
      tion   itself  mareerittshehi'gRhepmraairskes;'  at the
      the   volume
      mam's Maoazini. ' '
                                                       .,· ,.,\v

                         THE REPUBLIC OF PLATO.

A  New Translation                           into English.                                With   an Analysis and
      Notes. By J. Ll.                       Davies, MA., and
                                                                                          D. J.  Vaughan, M.A.,
      \ y\Fellows 'of Trinity College; 'Camb'ridge) Second Edition.
            V. ., ', '...                    ," \. v           · ,,'           ·                  8vo. cloth, 10*. Orf.
                                                                                                 many to becomestudents
                                             version mill,                                      able. -- Goaibiaw.
                                            whole boot                                           the reader." -- NonCon-
                                           English, such
                                                                                                         ··'
   "                                                      I
   "                                                        ! is

                                                                         .',
                                                                             .'

                                                                                               ',
                                                                                                           ,

                                                                                                                            '
      So eloquent and correct                                  we trust, induce
      of
                           \i                                  scholarlike and
                                                               as will fascinate
                                          a
      the Republic:      The                                     ·:· <··

      Free, nervous, idiomatic
      TOMisr.
                         i*J

Memoir of George. Wikon, M.D. F.R.S.E. Regius Pro-

. . fessor of, Technology in the University of Edinburgh. By his

        Sister, Jessie Aitkin Wilson. With Portrait, 8vo. cloth, lis.
   .
                    "'
                                         in
The Five Gateways' "of Knowledge. Popular Work on
      the Five Senses. By Geokge Wilson, M.D.                                                   A

                                                                                                                      a
                                             In fcap. 8vo. cloth, with gilt leaves, 2*. C>d.
   " People's Edition, ornamental stiff covers, Is.
      Dr.   hWeilsworniteus.niteIsnpioheeticlittwleithvoslcuimenetibfiecfofraecuusltyhe,  and  this union gives          charm to
       all                                                                                has  described the Five        Senses in

      language so popular that a child may comprehend the meaning, so suggestive
..jj that philosophers willtcnlt\il,mth^etuUre"~-\ilkJ>nS..,

The Progress of the Telegraph. By George Wilson, M.D.
            .«,····                                                   >«· Fcap. 8vo. Is.

   Litikxri"Hfosiinterestingand instructive . . at once                        scGieantteifwicaysanodf poKpnuolawr,ledregleig.i'o"u--s
       and  technical;   a Worthy companion to the
                                             '
                                                          .

                                                                              '
                     CnuftcnxUN. .
8 NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS,

MEMOIR OF THE REV. GEORGE WAGNER,

                          Late of St. Stephen's, Brighton.

By J. N. Simpkinson, M.A., Rector pf Brjngton,

Northampton. Second Edition. i .                            Crown 8ro. cloth, 9i.

" A deeply interesting picture of the life of one of a elan of men who are indeed
    the talt ofthis land."-- Mokninq I1iRALD.

    BY FRANCIS MORSE, M.A.

Incumbent of St. John' a, Lodgwood, Birmingham.

Working for God.          And other Practical Sermons.
                                            Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 5j.

"for soundness of doctrine, lucidity of style, and above all for their practical
   teaching, these sermons Kill commend themselves."-- loviu Bull.

"There is much tarntst, practical teaching in thii volume." -- E.nglisu

Chdkcrmxn.                . ,. .; '       ...I . , .1 . .   .. .
                   ., ./

       BY THE REV. D. J. VAUGHAN, M.A.,

Vicar of St. Martin's, Leicester, late Fellow 0/ Trinity College, Cambridge.

1. Sermons Preached in St. John's Church, Leicester,

during the jears 1855 and 1856.           Crown Svo. cloth, 5*. (id.

2. Three Sermons on the Atonement.'

With a Preface.                                             Fcap. 870. 1*. dd.

3. Sermons on the Resurrection.                             With a Preface.

, . .,                       ., . , 1                          Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 'Ss.

BY THE REV. J. F. THRUPP, M.A.

      Late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.

Introduction to the Study and Use of the Psalms.

                                          , , ,; , 1Two Vols. 8vo. 2l«.
" What Mr. Thrupp has attempted he has for the moil part done well. The plan,
considering that the author appeals to the great body of English readers, is
admirable. The result is a volume as interestingly readable at it is critically
valuable. We commend these volumes        owfithsapcerecudliSacrripstautirsef.a"ct--ionFkainiduaconn.fidence
to the earnest attention of all students
   PUBLISHED BY MACMILLAN AND CO.                                                                        9

Lectures to Ladies on Practical Subjects.

                                           Third Edition. Crown Svo. 7*. 6rf.
   By F. D. Maurice, Professor Kinoslbt, J. Ll. Davies, Arch
   deacon Allen, Dean TRiNcn, Professor                               BJ.reSwteirrn, iND,r.EsGqi.onacnKd
   JToohmnsoTna,tloDrr.,  Sibvekiko,  Dr.  Chamrers,              F.
                           Esq.

ContTttteahrhinrecyettsPV:LoCaio--oswruitn--P--inltarEgyWnv--eoorrPykIfnadhFrfaolieusyumhesnea--cWleeOVovCoriskefoirtlOlwieoncogfgcreuk.Lspa--adatiineTodsnhe--AonCTnxoeilaHelecteghyaeinl--tghanD--dbisyLptaheWwensoaHarrsdoiesistsp--ia--tfaSfelDacnti--ssi

M  We scarcely   know a volume containing more sterling           --gCoohdAsUe8nEsEes,'  or a Jitter ex
    pression of   modern intelligence on social subjects."                                JoUXKAL.

   'BY JOHN PHILLIPS, M.A. L.L.D. F.R.S.
             Professor of Geologuin the University of Oxford.

Life on the Earth : its Origin and Succession.

"  A convenient   sGuemomloagriysts?of--wAhatthiins jiaulrmea.dy  known and generally credited   by
   our principal                                                  present unquestionably result  of
n  A careful and condensed summary of the

   scientific research, from one who has great  --cleNaronnecsso,naTnOdRsMoulsntd.ness   of  intellect \
   and the richest ana completcsl knowledge"

               BY C. A. SWAINSON, M.A.

   Principal of the Theological College, and Frebendarg 0/ Chichester.

1. The Authority of the New Testament ; the Convic

   tion of Righteousness, and other Lectures delivered before

   the University of Cambridge.                                       8vo. cloth, 12».

" These remarkable Lectures deal Kith most engrossing subjects in an honest and
   vigorous spirit. The religions topics which are now uppermost in the mind of

    the thoughtful classes among us, and which are fundamental to the Christian,
    are here grappled with, we gladly acknowledge, in a courageous, straightfor-
   ward way. Ike reader is ltd to think healthily and calmly. . . . Our readers

   vwaillul ed."n--weLllitetoraorbytainChthuercbhomokaann.d read it all, there is so much in it of abiding

2. The Creeds of the Church. In their Relations to the

          Word of God and the Conscience of the Christian. 8vo. cloth, 9/.

3. A Handbook to Butler's Analogy.                                    With a few Notes.
                                                                                           1/. 6d.
                                                         A9
   NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS,

                                   TBS WORKS OP

WILLIAM ARCHER BUTLER, M.A.,

     ifLate Professor of oral Philosophy inlkt University 0/ Dublin.

   FIVE FOLUUES 8»o. UNIFORMLY PRINTED AND SOUND.

"  A man of gloving      geniui and   Eddivinerrsuifiregdh  accomplishments,        whose  remains  fill
   thesefive brilliant  volumes." --                         Review.

                SOLD SBPARATBLY AS FOLLOWS.

Sermons, Doctrinal and Practical. First Series
  Edited by the Very Rev. Tnos. Woodward, M.A., Dean of Down

  With a Memoir and Portrait. Fifth Edition. 8vo. cloth, 12*

" Present a richer  combination  of the  tqeunatelitri.e"s--foBrrSiteirsmhonsQoufatrhteefrilryst  class than
                    with in any  living
   any we have met                                                                                Riview.

Sermons, Doctrinal and Practical. Second Series.
  Edited by J. A. Jeremie, D.D., Regius Professor of Divinity in

  the University of Cambridge. Third Edition. 8vo. cloth, IOj. 6d-

"They are marked by the same originality and vigour of expression, Ihe same
   richness of imagery and illustralionfthe eame large views and eatholicspirit,and
   ike same depth and fervour of devotional feeling,          which so remarkably distin
   guished the preceding Seriest and which rendered         it a most valuable accession to

   our theological literature."-- From Da. JlRSMTB's PRP.fACl.

Letters On Romanism, in Reply to Dr. Newman's Essay on
   Development. Edited by the Very Rev. ThomasWoodward, M.A.,
   Dean of Down. Second Edition. Revised by the Ven. Arch
   deacon Hard wick.
                                                            8vo. cloth, 10*. dd.

"  Deserve to be considered   tchoencmenotsrat trieomn"a--rkabEledipnrrouorfgs hof  tke Author's  indomi
                                                                                    Review.
   table energy and power of

Lectures on the History of Ancient Philosophy.
   Edited from the Author's MSS., with Notes, by William Hep-
   wortii Thompson, M.A., Regius Professor of Greek in the
   University of Cambridge.                                 2 vols. 8vo.,£l 5*.

" Of the dialectic and physicsof Plato they are the only exposition alonee full,
   ivtcurate,and popular, with whichl am acquainted : beingfar more accurate than
   the Freneh,  aonfathinecPolmatpoanriacblpyhimloosorephpyo"pu--larFrtohmanPtrhoef.GeTrumoaunratrOeaNt'isaesProenfathceese.
   departments
     PUBlilflHKD BY MACMlLLAN AtfD CO.                                            11

                                         THE WORKS OF                             to the

                 JULIUS CHARLES HARE, M. A.,

Sometime Archdeacon of Levee, Rector of JterstmOnccm, Chaplain in Ordinary
             Queen, and formrrly Fellov and Tntor of Trinity College, Cambridge.

     ' NINS VOLS. 9v'o. VNirORMLT PRINTBD AND BOUND.

1. Charges to the Clergy of the Archdeaconry of
       Lewes. During 1840 to 1854, with Notes on the Principal

         Events sITcding the Chnrch duririg that period. And an Intro

         duction, explanatory of his position in the Church, with re
         ference to the Parties which divide it.

                                  3 vols. 8vo. cloth, £1 11*. dd.

2.  Miscellaneous                              '  some of the Leading

                   Pamphlets on

     Questions agitated in the Church during the years 1845 to 1851.
                                                                                           8vo. cloth, 12*.

3. Vindication of Luther against his recent English

     Assailants. Second Edition.                  8 vo. cloth, It.

4. The Mission of the Comforter.                  With Notes. Second
                                                             8vo. cloth, 12*.
         Edition.

5. The Victory of Faith. Second Edition.          8vo. cloth, 5/.

6. Parish Sermons. Second Series.                 8vo. cloth, 12*.

7. Sermons preacht on Particular Occasions. 8vo. 12*.

       The Ivo following booh are included among He coUcded Charyei, hut are puhliihed
                                 separaleiy far purchaser* of the reef.

Charges to the Clergy of the Archdeaconry of
       Lewes. Delivered in the years 1843, 1845, 1846. Never
       before published. With an Introduction, explanatory of his

         position in the Church, with reference to the Parties that divide

          it. 8vo. cloth, !>. 6rf.

The  Contest with Rome.: ' A| Charge, delivered in 1851.
     With Notes, especially in answer to Dr. Newman on (be Position

     of Catholics in England. Second Edition. 8vo. cloth, 10*. for".
11 NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS,

                               THE WORKS OF

            CHARLES KINGSLEY, M.A.

           Chaplain in Ordinary to the Qusen, Rector of Evertley,
and Hegius Professor of Modern History in the University of Cambridge.

1. The Limits of Exact Science as Applied to History.

An Inaugural Lecture, delivered before the University of
9 , Cambridge.
                                                                     Crown 8vo. 2*.

2. Two Years Ago. Third Edition.                                 Crown Svo. clotb, Cj.

" Genial, large hearted, humorous, with a quid eye and a teen relish alike
fmoarnw."h--at   is beautiful  in          a/id
                GuasdixX.          nature        for  what  is   genuine, strong,  and  earnest in

3. "Westward Ho!" or the Voyages and Adven

tures of Sir Amyas Leigb, Knight, of Burrough, in the County

of Devon, in the reign of Her most Glorious Majesty Queeu

Elizabeth. New Edition.                                          Crown 8vo. cloth, 6*.

f Almost Ike bist historical       novel         to our ' mind   of  the dag."--FraZU'i

,, MiGiZINk'.                                                             · |,

4. The Heroes,: Greek Fairy Tales for my Children.

         New aud Cheaper Edition, with Eight Illustrations. Royal 16mo.

    " beautifully printed on toned paper, gilt edges, 5*.

          We doubt not they will be read by many a youth vith an enchained interest
         almost as strong as ti e links which bound Andromeda to her rock."-- Ukitisu
       . QuJlKTXBLT.

5. Glaucus; or, the Wonders of the Shore. A Com-

panion for the Sea-side. Containing Coloured Illustrations of the

Objects mentioned in the Work. Fourth Edition. Beautifully

printed and bound iu cloth, gilt leaves. It, Cd.
" Us pages sparkle with life, they open up a thousand sources of unanticipated
pleasure, and combine amusement with             instru' ct'ion  in a very happy and unwonted

degree." -- Kci.tCTIC RlTlKV.

' 6. Phaethon ; or, Loose Thoughts for Loose Thinkers.
                                                                 Crown 8vo. boards, 2j.
Third Edition.

7. Alexandria and Her Schools. Four Lectures delivered

        at the Philosophical Institution, Edinburgh. With a Preface.
                                                                           Crown Svo. clotb, 5*.
PUBLISHED BY MACMILLAN AND CO.                                                        13

                WORKS

                  BY C. J. VAUGHAN, D.D.                                                  i

Chaplain in Ordinary to tkt Queen.CVatichaerdroafl,Doncaeter. and Chancellor of York

                                                         %

1. Notes for Lectures on Confirmation. With Suitable

Prayers. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. limp cloth, red leaves, Is. Gd.

2. St. Paul's Epistle to the Romans. The Greek Text with

English Notes.                               8 vo. cloth, Is. Gd.

3. Memorials of Harrow Sundays. A Selection of Sermons

preached in the School Chapel. With a View of the Interior
of the Chapel. Third Edition. To which is added Two additional

Sermons.        Crown 8vo. cloth, red leaves, 10*. Gd.

   *»· Purchasers of the Fibst and Second    Editions    may obtain
                                                         Booksellers,
copies of the additional Sermons from their  respective

price Gd.

4. Epiphany, Lent, and Easter. A Selection of Expository

Sermons. Second Edition. To which is added several new

Sermons.        Crown Svo. cloth, red leaves. 10*. Gd.

   %* Purchasers of the First Edition may obtain copies of the
Additional Sermons from their respective Booksellers, price 3*.

5. Revision of the Liturgy. Five Discourses. With an
     Introduction. I. Absolution. II. Regeneration. III. The Atha-
      nasian Creed. IV. Burial Service. V. Holy Orders.

          Second Edition. Cr. 8vo. cloth, red leaves (18C0), 117 pp. is. Gd.

6. Rays of Sunlight for Dark Days. A Book of Select
      J.Headings for the Suffering. With a Preface by C. Vaughan, D.D.

         Royal lGmo. Elegantly printed with red lines, and handsomely
         bound, red edges, is. Gd.
11 NEW WORKS AND NEW. EDITIONS,

                    BY CORNWALL SIMEON.

Stray Notes on Pishing and Natural History. With
                                                                                                                                                                              7s. lid.
   Illustrations.

"  If'  this remarkably agreeable wori does not                                   riral in popularity Ihe celebrated
        White's Selborne' it will not be because it                                                 itthi.n.gs..t"h--e mFiinedldi,s
   almost satiated with a repletion of strange                                    does not deserve
                                                                                  facli and good

   July 28, 1860.

BY THE RIGHT REV. G. E. LYNCH CQTTON, D.D.,
                 Lord bishop of Calcutta and Metropolitan of India.

Sermons and Addresses delivered in Marlborough
        College, during Six Years.

                                                    Crown 8vo. clotb, price 10». 6J.

" We can heartily recommend this volume ai a moil mi/able present for a youth,
      dorisfcoourrfsaems iwlyillrebaedaindgm; irawbhlee.r"ev--erLtlhteIEreiBarTe  young pcrione,  the teaching of these
                                                                                  Churcukan.

Sermons  :      Chiefly    connected with Public Events in 185-1.
                                                                       Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 3j.
"                                                                                                                ,
   A    volume  of  which  we can  speak  with  high  admiration"                                   IUUIMBEINCEB.
                                                               CniiiSTUM

Charge delivered to the Clergy of Calcutta at his
        Primary Visitation in September, 1859. 6vo. Si.Cd.

                           THE ORE-SEEKER.

A Tale of the Hartz Mountains. By A. S. M.

        Illustrated by L. C. H. Printed on toned paper, with elaborate

          full-page Illustrations and Initial Letters, and bound in elegant
          cloth with gilt leaves, 15*.

   This work        is most    elaborately illustrated, and                                       is published                                                                 as a
       Christmas     present.    The Obsekvib of Nov. 18,                                         1860, says of
                                                                                                                                                                              it :--

   "    Ostrenuaetshoonfb, tehaaenuitlmifyoosnttehbepersaetu-oetrimfyu,ilnaenondftlytrheenfditieltlerudsittfrodaerleligdahtvCfuohllruismttomesaaispluppberliressshoeenndst..  in the preecnt
                                                                                                                                                                               . . . Love and
                                                                                                                                                                              . . , The illus

        trations are many of the finest specimens extant."
            fUBMSUliD BY MACMILLAN AND CO.                          lfi

   BY THE VENBLE. ARCHDEACON HARDWICK.

1. Christ and other Masters': A Historical Inquiry into

          some of the chief Parallelisms and Contrasts between Christianity

          and the Religious Systems of the Ancient World.

Religions of China, America, and Occanica. In one volume.
Religions of Egypt and Medo-Fersia. In one volume.

                                                                    8vo. cloth, 7s. Crf. each.

"  liner mas to dijieull and complicated                             a subject as (he history of Pagan       '
    --reliCgioolnonHaiund, leCdhutorcahbly,Cahnrdonaticthlie. same  time rendered to lucid and attractive.'

2. History of the Christian Church during the Middle

   Ages          With Maps. Crown 8vo. eloth, 10*. 6rf.

3. History of the Christian Church during the

   Reformation.                                                     Crown 8vo. cloth, 10j. m.

4. Sermons Preached to Town Congregations.

                                                                     Crown 8vo. cloth, 6*. 6rf.

           BY THE VERY REV. R. C. TRENCH, D.D.,

                                                      Dean of Weelminster.

1. Synonyms of the New Testament.

                                                 Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 6s.

2. Hulsean Lectures for 1846 -- 46.

        Contbnts. 1. --The Fitness of Holy Scripture for unfolding the
           Spiritual Life of Man. 2. -- Christ the Desire of all Nations;

              or the Unconscious Prophecies of Heathendom.
            ' Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 5*.

3. Sermons Preached before the University of Cam

   bridge.                                                          Fcap. 8vo. cloth, 2*. 0d.
16 NEW WORKS AND NEW EDITIONS,

             BY DAVID MASSON, M.A.,

   Pro/ttior 0/ Enpliiti Literaturt in Unweriity Colltgt, London.

1. Life of John Milton, narrated in connexion with
   the Political, Ecclesiastical, and Literary History

   of his Time.                       Vol. I. 8?o. With Portraits. 18i.

   ...." Mpeiammrrrxeer.tmadrnHaneedogcan,reesshdssmeeiasn;eonhanr'harsstyis,.s"n--LbtoeintfateKlodniumluonypfTflwaaBaHrvigOttaiehglMitdilneoaBgdntto;ehHahtihlkmhaiaysettnmieksdmlpfwieaan.oanndfayultashAstskertppeynrebroilciliwwo,ntglhgeor1idac8fghpm0ehn0weio.corecaiftelciMlatsynt.iiontr.oohetyns. 'tcAtuhoijislpslilfeceiicnettdknaeu/indltsdfyutrbltyycimohrmeeiisss--

2. British Novelists and their Styles : Being a
       Critical Sketch of the History of British Prose

   Fiction.                                        Crown 8vo. cloth, Is. 6rf.

   "A work eminently calculated       atrot."w--in-TpuonpulPaariitsys, .  both by the soundness  of its

      doctrine and the si ill of its

8. Essays, Biographical and Critical : chiefly on

   English Poets.                                                         8vo. cloth, 1 2s. 6d.

                                            CONTENTS.

III.I. tDtLuhSietreheve:driYlacaeoet:ausfrpreetLh1n.uer7te--7h0eRIr.Xe--'sas.,ntVodTrMIhaIeit.lGiotooorWnniee.'otssh--r,deoa.aV--fwn.PodorIDtIeGh.eto.ra--eynMt.h--ieSlV'twsoX.IniIf.'tI--s..P--rIVoSsVcY.eoIot.DtuairatnCyhhdhd.ae--IVtnute,Berrusateeon:nndcDeT:tehhaoeeQnSutLBoiTnirrthicyetreiresyahoe.f
   " Distinguished by a remarkable power of analysis, a clear statement of the actual
   facts on which speculation is      based, and   amneanp. p--roTpruiatteAtbuela.untayuoiif. language.
   These Essays should bepopular      withserious

                      THE ILIAD OF HOMER.

                  TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH VERSE.

By I. C. Wright, M.A., Translator of "Dante," late
       Fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford. Books I.-- XII. Crown

          8»o. ckth, 10a. 6d. ; or in 2 separate Tarts, 5s. each.
      " We know of no edition of the ' sovran poet ' from which an English reader

         can derive on the whole to complete an impression of the immortal Epos."--
          DalLT Niws.

\
PUBLISHED BY MACMILLAN AND CO.                                           17

                 THE WORKS OF THE REF.

FREDERICK DENISON MAURICE, M.A.,

      Incmnttnl 0/ SI. Ptltr'i, Tttt Strttl, SI. MaryUbont.

Lectures on the Apocalypse, or Book of the Reve
       lation of St. John the Divine. Crown 8vo. cloth, 10*. 6rf.

What is Revelation ? With Letters on Mr. Mansel's Bampton

           Lectures.        " What         is                      10*.  "6rf.

Sequel to the Inquiry,                         Revelation                ?

With Letters on Mr. Mans el's Strictures.                                6*.

Exposition of the Holy Scriptures:
         (1.) The Patriarchs and Lawgivers.
          (2.) The Prophets and Kings.                                     6*.
         (3.) The Gospel of St. John.                             10*. 6rf.
         (4.) The Epistles of St. John.                           10*. 6rf.

Exposition of the Ordinary Services                                 7*. 6rf
Book :
                                               of the Prayer

                                                             6 *. 6rf.

Ecclesiastical History.                                      10*. 6rf.
The Doctrine of Sacrifice.                                     7*. 6</.

Theological Essays. Second Edition.                          10*. 6rf.

The Religions of the World. Third Edition.                               5*.

Learning and Working.                                               5*.
The Indian Crisis. Five Sermons.                             2*. Grf

The Sabbath, and other Sermons.                              2*. 6rf

Law on the Fable of the Bees.                                4*. 6rf.

The Worship of the Church. A Witness for the

       Redemption of the World.

The Name Protestant, and the English Bishopric at

Jerusalem. Second Edition.                                               3*.

TheDuty of a Protestant in the Oxford Election. 1847. 1*.
The Case of Queen's College, London.
                                                             1*. 6rf.

Death and Life. In Memoriam C.B.M.                                       1*.

Administrative Reform.      .                                            3rf-
18 THEOLOGICAL JIANUALS,. ' ,

MANUALS FOR THEOLOGICAL STUDENTS,

                VNIFORMLT PRINTED AND BOUND.

                         '·          ,'jr   ;'                   , '.                             ; ,; 1

                                           ,

This Series of Theological Manuals has been publishcd'with the aim

of supplying books concise, comprehensive, and accurate, convenient for

the Student and vet interesting to the general reader.'

Introduction to the Study of the Gospels. By . Brooke

   Fobs Westcott, M.A. formerly Fellow of Trinity College,

   Cambridge.                                                             Crown 8 vo. cloth, 10*. 6d.

"The worth of Mr.        Westcoil's volume for lhe spiritual interpretation of Ike
     Gospels is greater  than tee can readily express even by tie most grateful and
   taceoprmpisrtpoircveinhgoenf swtihvoeerdnseb.sosotoItfepvrreeerpsyrewenshtesenrtewatitiboheni,nagnthuIehnispfraurcaiotllsmelpelodeftecsnoaemcsrspe--ldelwelenhaeorslnesin^neg-st.hs"eo--cfhNavroieanwc-t
   CONTOIMI8T.

                                     ' n;

A General View of the History of the Canon of the

   ...New Testament during the FIRST FOUR CENTURIES.

        By Brooke Foss Westcott, M.A.- '
                                                                   Crown Svo. cloth, 19*. 64.

" The Author is one of those who are teaching us thai it is possible to rifle the
   · storehouses of German theology, without bearing away the taint of their atmo
   sphere : and to recognise the value of their accumulated treasures, and even
   ....track the vagaries of their theoretic ingenuity,                                       in  Ittheispubrysfuaitr

   the clear sight and sound feeling of English
                                                                 without abandoning
                                                                 common sense
                                                                  kind; and we should he glad                       to see it
   Ike   best and most complete      booh of the                 chaplains." -- GuiRDUM . I
"  welt  placed on the lists of our  examining
"
   Learned,   dispassionate, discriminating, worthy                       --ofBhriistusuibi jsQctu, iaKnTdIRtLheI.  present
    stale of  Christian Literature in relation fa it,

   To the student in Theology it will prove an admirable Text- Book : audio alt
   others who have any curiosity on the subject it wilt be satisfactory as one of the
   smuopsptlyu."se--fulLoannddoninstQruuctaivuetkpriietc.es  of  history  which  the records  of the                Church
                                                                                                                        ·
   TUBLISHED BY MACMILLAN AND CO.                                                                                                                                                             10

THEOLOGICAL MANUALS-- continued.

                                          in.

History of the Christian Church, during the Middle

   Ages    and the              Reformation               (a.d. 590-1600).
           Venerable          Cjiarles Hardwick,
   By the                                                  Archdeacon of Ely.
                                                    2 vols, crown 8vo. 10». 6rf. each.

Vol. I. History of the Church to the Exoommunication                                    of Luther
   With Four Maps.

Vol. II. History of the Reformation.
                 Each Volume may be had separately.
""FBueeo--wxlfhilhCcliiabinkhfiietribrniieiasignfstettiortwatehhmnnbeeceeiertdcpRseyoaslinetamuigenlrntdtiaiomttraucaulraoatrtnhuthadeenodnrtreeictxtryoehatneacrn,tn.stthy'tntehsheteeseurmpdecrraaciyndteniciscneispgsfalusenlsodinmafcoetohhprfieemaivrncaaeovhmlelillneesetcnitgtfidoarioontviimfosnoioa.fintdh,iiisfMbwfirmciaetuhv.ailttteHeyrtn,iaaaosrluaskdgn.hd-";
   he hae selected  --theSmrRCwTitAhTOjuRd. gment;  and he presents  them in an         equable and
"  compact style."                                                     adds that        great virtue,
                                                     Mr. Hardwtcx
   To a good method and good materials
   a perfectly transparent style. We did not expect to find great literary qualities
   rianelssopseueccltehgwaainthtm, hacinogunhaclyli,sefinnbeiussthsewdae,ndahniandvteehlfilgoighulinybdiliinttytehr;eemsbt;uintgw.w"eh--silheoNutohldinscbboeonofshoarthmisafsiisebtdothi.n,  this
                                                                                                                                                                                              it is

                                          IV.

           of the Book of Common

   together with a Rationale of the several Offices. By Francis
   Proctir, M.A., Vicar of Witton, Norfolk, formerly Fellow of

   St. Catharine's College, Cambridge. Fourth Edition, revised and

   enlarged.                                              Crown 8vo. cloth, 10*. 6rf.

"Mr. Proctir's * Hiatorj of the Book of Common Prayer' is by far the best
   commentary    extant               Not only do         bthyeMprre.sePnatlmilluesrt,ratbiuont sMre.mPbrraocce ttihre
   whole range                sources indicated
                 of original
   compares the present Booh of Common Prayer with the Scotch and American
   fepoxlretmse,nsswi;vieaanirndtfoehrnmetiarfreteiloyqnu,esanhttilisysftioerdsiceawtlsitohauntMdinrr.tftunParlllo, tchimteibrS'usCaerdhuimrmwispittoOhiraftfainscnoetus.nRvdeolmAuCsmheumear.c"mrhraanpnurcaienlrc.oi f
"
   It is indeed a complete and fairly-written history     ttooouftchthheeemd ,Loitntiu,sr.wg:y--ill;tphraaontvdetfhrteooymmmatanhyye,

     dispassionate way in which disputed points are
     troubled consciences what ought to be known
                 tooftchoemcpornotmenistisngofthteheprBinoockivlocfsoCof mevmaonngPelriacayletrr.uthM, gr.ivPe rtohecirtiarssheanst
   without fear
   and consent

   done a great  service to  the  Church  by        this  admirable  odrigEenstg."land  Quartirly.

                                                          Church
                MACMILLAN AND CO.'S

           Class $5oohs for CoHtges anir .Schools.

           I. ARITHMETIC AND ALGEBRA.

Arithmetic. For the use of Schools. By Barnard Smith, M.A.
      New Edition (1861). 348 pp. Answers to all the Questions.                         Crown 8»o. 4». 6d.

Key to the above. Second Edition, thoroughly                                            JRevise (I860).

     382 pp. Crown 8vo. 8s. id.

Arithmetic and Algebra in their Principles and Applications.

     With numerous Examples, systematically arranged. By Dainahd Smith, M.A.
     Seventh Edition (1800),696pp. Crown 8vo. 10».td.

Exercises in Arithmetic By Barnard Smith, M.A.                                          Part I.
    48 pp. (I860). Crown 8vo. Is. Part II. 56 pp. (1860). Crown 8vo. Is.
                                                                                        Answers,
      64. The Two Parts bound together 2s. ; or with Answers, 3s. 04.

Arithmetic in Theory and Practice. For Advanced Pupils. By
    J. Baooi Smith, M.A. Part First. 164pp (I860). Crown 8vo. 3s.6el.

A Short Manual of Arithmetic                By C. W. Underwood, M.A.

     96 pp. (I860). Fcp. 8vo. it. td.

Algebra. For the use of Colleges and Schools. By I. Todiiunter,

     M.A. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 316 pp. (1360). It. id.

           II. TRIGONOMETRY.

Introduction to Plane                       Trigonometry. For the use of Schools.
    Bk i. C. S»ow»ail. M.A.
                                            Second Edition (1847). 8vo. it.

P'iino Trigonometry. For Schools and Colleges. By I. Todhunteu,

     M.A. Second Edition, 379 pp. (1860). Crown 8vo. 5«.

Spherical Trigonometry.                     For Colleges and Schools.                                    By I.
Todhd»ti», M.A. 113pp. (1839). Crown 8vo. 4s. 6a.

Plane     RT. rDig. oBnioamileitt,ryM. .A.  With a numerous          Collection         of Examples.

      By                                      106 pp. (1838). Crown  8vo. Js. td.

Plane      oafnTdabSleps hoer rLicogaalritThmrisg.onBoymJe. trCy. .SxowWaaiLtLh,   the  Construction       and
                                                                                  M.A.   Ninth Edition,
      Use                                                                                                140 pp.
(1837). Crown 8vo. 7t. td.

                 III. MECHANICS AND HYDROSTATICS.
Elementary Treatise on Mechanics. With a Collection of

     Examples. By 8. Parsuison, B.D. Second Edition, 343 pp.(I8CO). Cr. 8vo. 9s. td.

Elementary Courso of Mechanics and Hydrostatics. By J. C
     aowiAU, M.A. Fourth Edition. 110pp. (1831). Crown 8vo. 3s.
mmm

