THE LIFE

                                                             OF

 ROBERT STEPHENSON, F4R4S4

                                                                            ETC. ETC.

               LATE PRESIDENT OF THE INSTITUTION OF CIVIL ENGINEERS.

                                                                      BY

                   J. C. JEAFFRESON

                                              BARRISTER-AT-LAWV.

                                   wrru DESCRTPTIVE cuumns on

SOME OF HIS MOST IMPORTANT PROFESSIONAL WORKS

                                                                                                                                                             -

                                                             BY

              WILLIAM POLE, F.R.S.

             MEMBER OF THE INSTITUTION OF CIVIL ENGINEERS

                                                IN TWO vowmxas.

                                  VOL.L

                                  L O ND O N :

     I LONGMAN, GREEN, LONGMAN, ROBERTS, & GREEN.

                                                                 1 8 6 4.


                                        TF/4/0
                                        S75'J"/

                                           /é</

                                                 14/

             PREFACE.

                            --'--ooo-i

        IYEARS have   elapsed since with Professor-
                     to write the Life of ROBERT
FOUPRole undertook

STEPHENSON.                             ~

A careful examination of the many published works

which, either specially or incidentally, treat of the

labours of the two Stephensons, was amongst the first

Isteps which took towards the performance of my task.
I read critically a large number of scientific volumes,

biographies, lectures, and articles bearing upon the
history of the locomotive, upon the art of building

bridges, and upon the careers of the men who, during the

last sixty years, have brought our railway system to its
present state of efficiency. My surprise was great at
finding that the statements of the various treatises were

irreconcilable.

  IIn the summer and autumn of 1860 passed some

time in Northumberland and Durham, collecting mate

rials for this work from the oral communications of

Robert Stephenson's numerous relations, from the remin

iscences of men who had been the companions or the
patrons of both the Stephensons, and from entries in

                     . 760

v1 PREFACE.

parish registers, and the account-books of collieries and
            I was fortunate in meeting with cordial
factories.

response from all of the many persons whose assistance

was `solicited. The result of these enquiries was the dis

covery that many mistakes had been made in telling the

story of the elder Stephenson's life, and that no life of

the younger Stephenson would be complete that should
neglect to give a correct account of the misapprehended

passages in the life of the elder. The only course, there
fore, open to me was to re-write the Life of George

Stephenson, so far as it affected Robert Stephenson's

career, and to tell the whole truth of the son's life to the

best of my ability.

  IOn my return from the North of England gathered

documentary materials from many different quarters, and

Iere long was fortunate enough to bring together a

mass of evidence which the representatives of Robert

Stephenson did not know to be in existence. Besides

letters submitted to my perusal by a great number of the

engineer's friends, and besides papers sent to me by his

Iexecutors, obtained custody of several important collec

tions of documents. Mr. Longridge put into my hands

the Stephenson papers which his father preserved. Mr.

Illingworth' allowed me to peruse his South-American
papers. Mr. Charles Empson, shortly before his death,
contributed to my store of materials a most interesting
collection of letters and documents; consisting of Robert
Stephenson's early journals, and of nearly all the letters

which he either received from or had written to friends

                         PREFACE.                        vii

or relations, between the termination of his life on

Killingworth Moor and his return from South America.

I have also to acknowledge the assistance of Mr. George

Parker Bidder, late President of the Institution of Civil

Engineers; Mr. Charles Manby, F.R.S.; and Mr. George

Robert Stephenson, C.E.

In expressing my thanks to the gentlemen who have
Iassisted me with information or papers,
                                          render no

mere formal act of courtesy. Gratitude is a solemn duty

when acknowledgment has to be made of services con
ferred by those who no longer tarry in the ways of men.

IOf those to whom am indebted for facts or counsel,

many have passed to another world. Mr. Losh and Mr.
Weallens of Newcastle, Mr. Kell of Gateshead, Mr. Charles

Empson of Bath, Admiral Moorsom, and Mr. Charles

Parker, are amongst those who will never see this page.

                         J. CORDY IEAFFRESON. -

THE TASK of describing some of the more important
professional subjects which occupied the attention of
Robert Stephenson has been confided to me. There
was some difficulty in determining what subjects should
be chosen, for many of his works were so mixed up with
the current events of his life, that they could scarcely
be separated from the narrative of his biography.

viii PREFACE.

I determined, finally, to select the Atmospheric system

of Railway Propulsion, and the great Iron Railway

Bridges erected by him.

  IThe length at which have treated the former of

these subjects demands some explanation, inasmuch as

Robert Stephenson, far from promoting the Atmospheric
system, was always one of its strongest opponents. But

Ijudges on whom can fully rely were of opinion that

it deserved a prominent place in his life, as well from

          it
                                              it,

                                                              it,
the great interest he took in       as from the extent

to which  must have affected the whole course of

Railway engineering. The facts of its history, with the

results and lessons to be drawn from seemed likely

soon to be forgotten, and were considered worthy of

being put fully on record.
   The preliminary chapter on Iron Bridges has been

written in order to bring out more clearly the pecu

liarities and merits of the magnificent structures of this

kind, to which probably Robert Stephenson will even

tually owe his widest fame.

have to acknowledge information kindly supplied
I

                        I.,

                    I
by many friends in the profession.

   The chapters which have contributed to the work

are XIV. in Vol. and II., III., IV., VIII., in Vol. II.

                                    WILLIAM POLE.

LoNnoN: September 1864.

                    CONTENTS .

                                              OF

              THE FIRST VOLUME.

                            ._.q°¢i

                 CHAPTER I.

                 ms srnrnnnson runny.

Various     Stephensons of Newcastle--`  Old Robert Stephenson'--Mabel
   Carr  -- George Stephenson's Birth--   Fanny Henderson -- George Ste

phenson moves to Wil1ington--Robert Stephenson's Birth--The Christen

ing Party at Willington Quay--Mrs. George Stephens0n's delicate Health

--- George Stephenson removes to Killingworth Township, Long Benton
-- Site of George Stephenson's House at Willington--` The Stephenson

Memorial'  .  .  .  .                    .  .     . Page 1

                 CHAPTER II.

                 LONG BENTON.

                    (Arrn. 1-9.)

The West Moor Colliery --`The Street' of Long Benton--Road from
   Newcastle to Kil1ing'worth-- ` The Cottage' on the West Moor -- View

from the Cottage Windows---Apparent Amendment of Mrs. Stephensons

Health---Robert and his Mother visit Black Callerton--R0bert Ste

tpoheMnsoonnt'srosSeis--terE--leaDneoarthSteopfhheinssoMno--theHre--r GgereoartgeDisSateppphoeinnstomne'snt  Journey
                                                                                                             ~-- ` The

Artificia.ls'--Little Robert's Visits to the Red House Farm, Wolsing
ham--- ` The Hempy Lad '--Tom1ny Rutter's School--The young Gleaner
----A Lesson for the Lord's Day -- George Stephenson's Sundays---His

Friends, Robert Hawthorn and John Steele--The first Locomotive ever

built on the Banks of the Tyne- Anthony Wigham-Captain Robson

Evenings at the West Moor . . . . . . 12

CONTENTS OF

                               CHAPTER III.

                           ROBERT STEPHENSON, THE SCBIOOLBOY.

                                                    (mar. 9-15.)

Robert and the Pitman's Picks--` Mind the Buiks ' --George Stephenson's
   pecuniary Position whilst his Son attended Rutter's Scho0l--George
  appointed Engineer to the Collieries of `The Grand Allies' --- The
   Locomotive on the Wylam Line --- George Stephenson's first Locomo
   tive--His Appointment to the `Walker Iron-works '--` Bruce's Academy'
  --The Cost of Robert's Tuition at the School-Robert Stephenson's
  Reception by his new Schoolfellows -- The Boy's delicate Health ---- The
  Purchase of his Donkey-- John Tate--Rival Safety Lamps--Testi
   monial and Public Dinner to George Stephenson for his Lamp--Home
   Gossip---` Throwing the Hammer'-- George Stephens0n's Views with
   regard to the Education of his Son --Robert Stephenson's Plan of a Sun
   Dial . . . . . . . . Page 29

             -

CHAPTER IV.

                             ROBERT STEPHENSON, THE APPRENTICE.

                                                    (mar. 15-20.)

Robert Stephenson leaves School--He is apprenticed to Mr. Nicholas Wood
   --G eorge Stephenson lays down the Hetton Colliery Railway---Father and
   Son---Robert's Economy in his personal Expenses--The `Three Tuns'
  -- The Circumferentor--George Stephenson's increasing Prosperity-- His
   Second Man-iage--He builds the ` Friar's Goose Pumping Engine'
   He embarks in a small Colliery Speculation--The Locomotive Boiler
   Tubes of the Messrs. James--Explosion in the Killingworth Mine--George
   Stephenson's First Visit to Mr. Edward Pease~-- Robert Stephenson and
   his Father s1u-vey the Stockton and Darlington Line -- Robert Stephen
   son's First Visit to London--H.-is delicate State of Hea1th--Survey for
   the Second Stockton and Darling-ton Act--Robert Stephenson goes to
   Edinburgh--Professor Leslie's Testimonial--Letters Written at Edin
  burgh by Robert Stephenson to Mr. Longridge--R0bert Stephenson
   accompanies Professor Jamieson on a Geological Excursion--George
   Stephenson's Letter to his friend Locke--Robert Stephenson and his
   Father visit Ireland--Robert Stephenson's Letters from that Country 46

                                   CHAPTER V.

                                           PREPARATIONS FOB. AMERICA.

                                                                     (EFAT. 20-21.)

George Stephenson's Rupture with Mr. Losh--The Establishment of the
   Firm of R. Stephenson and Co. of Newcastle--T he Colombian Mining

THE FIRST VOLUME.                                              xi

Association--George Stephenson a Chief Agent for the Project--Robert
Stephenson visited with renewed and aggravated Symptoms of Pul
monary Disease--Robert Stephenson proposed as Engineer to the ` Co
lombian Mining Association'-- His Visits to Cornwall and other Places
-- Newcastle -- The London Coifee House, Ludgate Hill --Robert Ste

phenson accepts the Post of Engineer-in-Chief to the Colombian Mining
Association--In London -- Preparations and Hard Work--` Home, sweet
Home '---Letter to ` the North ' -- Conduct of `the Association' -- Liver

pool --SaiLs for South America         .      .  t             . Page 64

CHAPTER VI.

SOUTH AMERICA.

(mar. 20-24.)

La Guayra--Caraccas --Proposed Breakwater and Pier at La Guayra
-- Survey for Railroad between La Guayra and Caraccas-- Santa Fé de
                                                               the Country --
Bog-ota---- Mariquita-- Life on   the  Magdalena --Explores
Road between the Magdalena       and   the Mines -- Santa Ana  ----Descriptions
of Scenery -- Arrival of the Cornish Miners--Insub0r.<1ination of Miners

--Friends, Pursuits, and Studies-- Inclination and Duty-- Disappointment

of the Directors---Their Secretary . . . . . 78

CHAPTER VII.

FROM SOUTH AMERIGA TO NEWCASTLE.

(ETAT. 23-24.)                            -

Leaves Santa Ana--Goes up to Carthagena---Encounters Trevithick
   -- Trevithick's Peculiarities -- Sails for New York -- Becalmed amongst
   the Islands -- Terrible Gales in the open Sea -- Two Wrecks ----Can
  nibalism---Shipwrecked off New York--Strange Conduct of a Mate -- Is
   made a Master Mason-- Pedestrian Excursion to Montreal -- Remarkable

Conversation on the Banks of the St. Lawrence--Returns to New York

--Arrives at Liverpool --Meeting with his Father---Goes up to London

and sees the Directors of the Colombian Mining Association--Trip to
Brussels -- Return to Newcastle -- Liverpool
                                                 . . . 100

                              CHAPTER VIII.

                                       RESIDENCE IN NEWCASTLE.

                                                   (mar. 24»-25.)
State of the Locomotive in 1828---Efibrts to improve the Locomotive

   ---The Reports of Messrs. Walker and Rastrick----A Premium of £500
   offered by the Directors of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway for

xii CONTENTS OF

the best Locomotive --- Mr. Henry Booth's Invention of the Multitubular
Boiler--Commencement of the `Rocket ' Steam Engine---A Tunnel across

the Mersey--Survey for a Junction Line between the Bolton and Leigh

and Liverpool and Manchester Railways ---- Survey for Branch Line from

-the Liverpool and Manchester Railway to Warrington--Robert Stephen

son's Love Afi-airs--His Access to Society in Liverpool and London

Miss Fanny Sanderson--Proposal that Robert Stephenson should live

at Bedlington---Mr. Richardson's Expostulations----N0. 5 Greenfield Place
-- The Sofa a la mode--Marriage
                                     .  .  .  . Page 116

CHAPTER IX.

RESIDENCE IN NEWCASTLE---CONTINUED.

(mar. 25-28.)

\Vedding Trip-- Battle of the ` Locomotive ' -- ` The Oracle '--Construc

tion of the `Rocket' Steam Eng-ine--The Rainhill Contest --Particulars
concerning the ` Rocket'--History of `the Blast-Pipe'---Triumphant

return from Liverpool to Newcastle+Answer to Mr. VValker's Report

--Letters to Mr. Richardson-- Numerous Engagements--More Loco

motives--Opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway--Robert

Stephenson appointed Engineer to the `Warrington' and `Leicester and

Swannington' Lines--Discovery of Coal Strata, and Purchase of Snib

stone--London and Birmingham Rai1way-- Robert Stephenson employed

to carry the Line through Parliament--Opposition to the Line--` Inves

tigator's' Pamphlet---Robert Stephenson's Evidence before the Lords'
Committee--Rejection of the Bill in 1832--Calumnies --Public Meeting

at Thatched House Tavern in support of the London and Birmingham
Rai1way-- Bill passes Parliament in 1833---Robert Stephenson appointed

sole Engineer-in-Chief to the London and Birmingham Railway
Leaves N ewcastle-on-Tyne -- Pupils
                                        . . . . 138

                                      CHAPTER X.

           CONSTRUCTION OF THE LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM RAILWAY.

                                                                     (1:-rrar. 29-34.)

Appointment as Engineer-in-Chief to the London and Birmingham Line
   --Contract Plans--Drawing-Office in the Cottage on the Edgeware
   Road, and subsequently at the Eyre Arms, St. John's Wood--Health
   and Habits of Life -- Staff of Assistant and Sub-Assistant Engineers
  The principal Contractors -- Primrose Hill Tunnel-- Blisworth Cutting
   --Wolverton Embankment and Viaduct--Kilsby Tunnel --Interview
   with Dr. Arnold at Rugby--- Conduct and Character of Navvies --Anec

                    THE FIRST VOLUME.                                 xiii

dotes-- Robert Stephenson proposes the Extension of the Line from

Camden Town to Euston Square---Pr0position first rejected and then

adopted by Directors--- Act of Parliament obtained for Extension of the

Line --- The Incline from Camden Town to Euston Square originally
worked by Stationary Engines and Ropes -- Lieut. Lecount's Comparison
of Labour expended on the London and Birmingham Railway, and Labour

expended on the Great Pyramid---Conduct of a certain Section of the

Directors to Robert Stephenson ---Opening of the Line --Dinner at Dee's

Royal Hotel, Manchester--Robert Stephenson's Anger with a Director
Dinner and Testimonial given to Robert Stephenson at Dunchurch --

Brunel uses Robert Stephenson's System of Drawing on the Great Western

--Robert Stephenson's Appointment as Consulting Engineer     Page 184

                    CHAPTER XI.

AFFAIRS, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE, DURING THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                              LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM RAILWAY.

                    (AITAT. 29-35.)

Stanhope and Tyne Railway Company----Robert Stephenson appointed
their Engineer--Opening of the Line and its rapidly increasing Em

barrassments--Robert Stephenson visits Belgium with his Father ---

Ofiices in Duke Street, and George Street, Westminster--The Session of

1836 --Various proposed Lines between London and Brighton: Sir John

Rennie's, Robert Stephenson's, Gibbs's, Cundy's--London and Blackwall

Railway,   and the  Commercial Road Railway--R0bert     Stephenson  strongly
opposes   the Use   of Locomotives in Towns -- Life at  Haverstock
                                                                     Hill
Reading, Friends, Horses, Sunday Dinners -- Newcastle Correspondence

Mrs. Stephenson's Accident to Knee-Cap--Professor VVheatstone's and
Robert Stephenson's Adoption of the Electric Telegraph -- Robert Ste
phenson assumes Arms --- That ` Silly Picture '
                                                 .        .         . 214

                                 CHAPTER XII.

FROM THE COMPLETION OF THE LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM RAILWAY TO
             THE OPENING OF THE NEWCASTLE AND DARLINGTON LINE.

                                      .

                                                   (mar. 35-41.)

-Railways undertaken in various Directions--Brunel, Giles, Braithwaite
      Robert Stephenson's Trip to Italy--On his Return again immersed
   in Projects----The Contractors' Dinner at ` The Albion '--Letters to New
   castle-- Cigars for the Continent--Stanhope and Tyne Crisis--Robert
   Stephenson threatened with Insolvency---Acts for the Pontop and South
   Shields and the Newcastle and Darlington Junction Railways --Robert

                    \

xiv CONTENTS OF

   Stephenson appointed to execute the Newcastle and Darling-ton Lines
  --Robert Stephenson created a Knight of the Order of Leopold
  Mrs. Stephenson':1 Death---- Opening of Newcastleand Darlington Line

  --Public Dinner and Speeches--Continental Engagements--Leaves
  Haverstock Hill and moves to Cambridge Square---Fire in Cambridge

   Square--George Hudson and Robert Stephenson--A Contrast Page 238

                CHAPTER XIII.

RAILWAY raosnnss AND RAILWAY LEGISLATION.

First Act of Parliament authorising the Construction of a Railway-- Rail

way Developement from the year 1801 to 1846 inclusive ---The Railway
Mania of 1825-26--The Railway Mania of 1836-37 --The Railway

Mania of 1845-46 ---Difference between the Crises of 1825-26 and 1836

-37 and of 1845-46--- Report from Committees, 1837 --Bubble Com
panies--Parliamentary Influence -- Parliamentary Corruption --Compen
sation; Stories of--The Parliamentary Committee as a Tribunal---Robert

Stephenson's Views on Parliamentary Legislation--Observations on his
Bar-Project for a ` Preliminary Board of Inquiry ' -- Causes of Parliamentary
Inconsistency-- Stories of the Parliamentary              Professional Wit

nesses in the House of Commons: Robert Stephenson, Brunel, Locke,

Lardner, Bidder --- Great Britain compared with other Countries in
respect of Railway Developement -- Results -- Proposal for Railway

Farmers--Proposal for a Railway Bank      .   .           .  . 263

                    CHAPTER XIV.

rnn ATMOSPHERIC srsrnm or RAILWAY rnorutsron.

Remarkable Episode in the History of Railways--Correction of Nomen
   clature-- Objects of this Chapter -- General Modes of Locomotion

Constant rivalry between Locomotive and Stationary Steam-power---Liver

pool and Manchester Railway -- Walker and Rastrick's Report-- Ste
phenson and Locke's Reply-- Triumph of the Locomotive-----Renewa1 of

the Stationary  Plan in the  Atmospheric   form --Early   Inventors--Papin
-- Medhurst---  Features of  his Schemes  ---Vallance --  Pinkus -- Clegg --

Jacob and Joseph Samuda--Private Experiments--Tria1 of their Plan

on the Thames Junction Railway---Description of the Apparatus ---Pro

posal to apply it in Ireland--Smith and Barlow's Report-- Application

on the Kingstown and Dalkey Line--Arguments in favour of the Plan
--Robert Stephenson's attention called to it in reference to the Chester

and Holyhead Railway--His Report--Public Interest excited--Croydon

Railway Parliamentary Committee---The Railway Mania-- Appointment

of a Committee of the House of Commons to enquire into the Merits of

THE FIRST VOLUME.                                         xv

the Plan-- Their Report in its favour --Cu1minating point of the History
-- Contests in Parliament--Application of the Atmospheric System in

practice--Thames Junction Line--Kingstown and Dalkey Li.ne--- Croydon

Line----South Devon Line ---Paris and St. Germain Line--Sum1nary of
Results -- Mechanical Efiiciency -- Economy --- General Applicability to

Railway Trafiic--Reasons for its Abandonment--Conclusion  Page 292

                         ILLUSTRATION IN VOL. I.

                                               ,_-.¢..-_
Ponraur or Rorsnr Srsrnsnson, by George Richmond To face Htle.

            THE LIFE

                                                OF

ROBERT STEPHENSON.

                                      ---oo:=0-{oo---

         CHAPTER I.

         THE STEPHENSON FAMILY.

Various Stephensons of Newcastle--  ` Old Robert   StHepehnednesrosnon'----
Mabel Carr----George Stephenson's   Birth--Fanny
George Stephenson moves to Willington -- Robert Stephenson's

Birth--The Christening Party at Willington Quay--Mrs. George
Stephenson's delicate Health -- George Stephenson removes to

Killingworth Township, Long Benton-- Site of George Stephenson's

House at Willington]--` The Stephenson Memorial.'

           records of Newcastle show that the name of

THEStephenson has been frequent in every rank of

the town for the last two hundred and fifty years.
But no attempt has ever been made to establish a family

connection between the subject of this memoir and the

many worthy citizens of Newcastle who, in the seven

teenth andeighteenth centuries, bore the same name. A

gentleman of high attainments, residing in the neighbour
hood of Newcastle, in answer to enquiries for ancestors

VOL. 1.  B

2  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C}I. I.

in the male line of George Stephenson, stated that George

Stephenson on a certain occasion said that his family
were natives of Castleton, in Liddisdale, and that his

grandfather came into England in the service of a Scotch

gentleman.
    There is no doubt that the-grandfather of the greatest

engineer of the present century lived and toiled and died
in humble circumstances. He worked as fireman to

the engines of the various colliery pits in the neighbour
hood of Wylam, till an accident deprived him of sight
and rendered him dependent on others for his daily bread.

Gentle beyond the wont of rude North-countrymen, and

fond of spinning out long stories of adventure and
romance to village children, he was known as ` Bob the
story-teller.' He is now remembered by the few of his
associates who linger on the earth as" Old Robert Stephen

son.' In early life he married Mabel, the daughter of

George Carr, a bleacher and dyer of Ovingham, a village
standing on an ascent which rises from the north bank of
the Tyne, and faces the ancient ruins of Prudhoe Castle,
that crown the hill on the opposite bank. The maiden
name of Mabel Carr's mother was Eleanor Wilson.

Eleanor was the daughter of a wealthy Northumbrian
yeoman, who possessed a good estate in the parishes of
Stocksfield and Bywell. Indignant at her marriage with
the bleacher and dyer of Ovingham, Mr. Wflson turned
his back upon her, and died without bequeathing her a

penny.

    By his wife Mabel ` Old Robert Stephenson ' had four
sons (James, George, Robert, and John) and two
daughters (Eleanor and Ann). James, the eldest son,
closely resembled his father; but George, Robert, and

1801.]  EARLY YEARS OF GEORGE STEPHENSON.  3

John, were all shrewd and observant men, self-reliant and

resolute.

   Born June 9, 1781, George Stephenson could neither
write nor read when he had attained the age of eighteen
years. Up to that age he displayed no signs of unusual
intelligence, but he had always been a good, sober, steady
lad. Like most pit-children, he used to grub about in
the dirt, and for his amusement fashion models of steam

engines in clay. From his earliest years, also, he kept
as pets pigeons, blackbirds, guinea-pigs, and rabbits; an
almost universal trait amongst the colliery labourers of

the Newcastle field.

   In 1801, he became brakesman of the engine of the

Dolly Pit, in Black Callerton, and lodged in the house
of Thomas Thompson, a small farmer of that parish.

George Stephenson was at that time a light-hearted young
fellow, famous for practical jokes, and proud of his

muscular power. At this period, also, he acquired the

art of shoe-cobbling.
    The most important farmer of the parish was Mr.

Thomas Hindmarsh, who occupied land which his an
cestors had farmed for at least two centuries. To his grave
displeasure, his daughter Elizabeth accepted the addresses
of the young brakesman, giving him clandestine meetings
in the orchard and behind the garden-fence, until such

effectual measures were taken as prevented a repetition
of the suitor's visits. Elizabeth, however, remained faith
ful to the lover, whom her father drove from his premises,
and she eventually became his second, but not his last,

wife.

    George Stephenson took this disappointment lightly.
He soon fixed his aifections on Ann Henderson, daughter

                                 ..

                                                    3.2

4  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.        [OIL I.

of John Henderson, -a small and impoverished farmer,
near Capheaton. Like her two sisters Hannah and
Frances (who were the female servants in Thomas Thomp
son's house) Ann was a domestic servant. At first she
seemed well pleased with her lover, who, amongst other
attentions, paid her one which deserves a few passing
words." Observing that her shoes wanted to be re-soled,

he begged leave to mend them, and, the permission being
granted, he not only repaired them, but boastfully dis

played them to his companions. His triumph, however,
was of short duration; for on returning the shoes to
Ann, with a request for a warmer acknowledgement of
his services than mere thanks, he was informed by her
that he wooed where he could never win.

    This second rejection was for a time deeply felt, but
he concealed his chagrin, and then made up his mind
that, since he could not have Ann, he would try his luck
with her sister Fanny.

   Fanny Henderson had for years been a servant in the
house where George Stephenson was a lodger. When
Thomas Thompson, more than ten years before, took the
farm from the outgoing tenant, George Alder, she came
into his service as part of the concern, with the following
character:--

  `A                                 ardently admired; but not succeed
                                     ing with her, he said he would have
   "' Mr. Pattison, the nephew of    one of the family, and he turned his
Ann Henderson, and son of Elizabeth  attention to Fanny.' Mr. Pattison,
Henderson (who married Thomas        the author of this statement, is em
Pattison, a tenant farmer of Black
Callerton), writes thus: `The pair   ployed in the factory of Messrs.
of shoes mentioned in the " Life of  Robert Stephenson and Co., New
                                     castle. His statement is corroborated
George Stephenson," as having been
made for Fanny Henderson, after      by all the members of his mother's

wards his wife, were not for her,    respectable family.
but for her sister Ann, whom he

JIn-..-. .                                                         _.___-.__i_._..;

     1802.]   MARRIAGE OF GEORGE STEPHENSON.                                  5

              Black Callerton: April 10, 1791.

            The bearer, Frances Henderson, is a girl of a sober disposition,

     an honest servant, and of a good family, as witness my hand,
     '        l
                                             Gsoren ALDER.

              She was no longer young, and it was the village gossip
           that she would never find a husband. As a girl, she had
           plighted her troth to John Charlton, the village school
            master of Black Callerton, but their long engagement was

            terminated in 1794 by the young man's death, when

            she was in her twenty-sixth year. She was therefore
           George's senior by twelve years; but it was not for her

            to object to the disparity of their ages, since he was

            willing to marry a woman so much older than himself.
- So, to the good-natured amusement of neighbours, and

           to the vexation of Ann Henderson, who did not enjoy

          . the apparent unconcern with which her lover had passed
            from her to her old maid sister, George Stephenson was
            married at Newburn church on November 28th, 1802,

           to Fanny Henderson, the mother of the subject of this

     memoir.                                                                     ~

        Mr. Thomas Thompson gave the wedding breakfast to
     his faithful domestic servant and his young lodger, and
     signed his name in the parish register, as a witness of the

     marriage ceremony. George Stephenson had at that time

     so far advanced in the art of writing, that he was able to.
     sign his own name (and his wife's maiden name also --h'

     handwriting may be trusted as evidence on such a point)

     on the certificate. The signature is blurred--possibly

     by the sleeve of his coat, as he stretched out his pen for

.1,  another dip of ink before acting as his wife's secretary;
     but the handwriting is legible, and is a good specimen of

     George Stephenson's caligraphy.

6  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                   [CJL I

   For a short time after his marriage GeorgeiStephenson
continued to reside at Black Callerton, lodging with his
wife in a cottage not far from the Lough House, as Mr.

Thomas Thompson's residence was called. This arrange
ment, however, did not last long. While he was act
ing as brakesman at Black Callerton, his father and his
brothers James and John continued to work at Walbottle

colliery, where the engineer was Robert Hawthorn, the
ingenious and enterprising man whose sons still carry on
the important locomotive factory at Newcastle that bears

their name. At the opening of the present century,

Robert Hawthorn, then known as one of the best

enginewrights in the Newcastle country, erected the
first ballast machine that ever worked on the banks
of the Tyne. This machine was erected at Willington
Quay (a station on the river side, about six miles below
Newcastle), and was placed upon the quay, on the edge
of the river.* When the work was completed, Hawthorn
exerted his influence in favour of the Dolly Pit brakes
man, the consequence of which was, that the latter

quitted Black Callerton (situated a few miles above
Newcastle), and became the brakesman of the Ballast

Hill engine. It was while he held this appointment that

George Stephenson first set up as a housekeeper on
his own humble account--that is to say, first bought
bedding and such modest furniture as he required for

   " It has been represented that   incline, say that the former was
                                    near the water. `If,' say these
this machine was placed on the
summit of the Ballast Hill. The     gentlemen, `the machine had been
                                                                  Hill,
Messrs. Hawthorn, however (the      erected on  the open Ballast         it
sons of the contractor), who remem  would have  been buried up.'  .

ber well both the engine and the

1803.]  BIRTII OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                         7

two rooms in a cottage stationed hard by the engine on
Willington Quay. As everything connected with the
career of this remarkable man is interesting, it is worthy
of mention that at the time of his marriage he had not

saved sufiicient money to buy the upholstery and fittings

of his new home. In marrying Fanny Henderson, how

ever, he had, in a pecuniary sense, bettered himself.
When they mounted the horse which Mr. Burn of the
Red House farm, Wolsingham, put at their service, and
made their progress from their furnished lodgings at
Black Callerton to their new domicile on the other side
of Newcastle, George had in his pocket a handsome
number of gold pieces--the savings of his careful wife

during long years of domestic service. A portion of

this money was expended on household goods, the rest
being laid by against a rainy day.

    Marriage made a great. difference in George Ste
phenson, and on settling at Willington he applied himself
earnestly to the work of self-education. On October 16th,
1803,* his wife gave birth to a son, who was christened
Robert: the ceremony was performed in the Wallsend
school-house, as the parish church was unfit for use. The
sponsors were Robert Gray and Ann Henderson, but
they were by no means the only guests at the christen
ing. Proud of being a father, George called together

his kinsmen from the Wylam and Newburn districts,

and gave them hospitable entertainment. His father,

mother, and brothers answered the summons. So

Robert Stephenson was received into the family with

  ' Robert Stephenson stated that    celebrated at that time; but the ex

he was born in the month of No-      tractfrom the registerproves his birth
                                     to have been in October.
vember, and his birthday was always

8  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.        [OIL I.

all honour, being named, according to north-country

fashion, after his grandfather, and having long life and

health and success drunk to him in sound ale and

Scotch whisky. But the uncles and aunts who were

present at the festivities remarked that the babe was
` a wee sickly bairn not made for long on this earth.'

   Delicate the child both was and remained until he had

made several years' entry into manhood. From his father

he inherited strong thews and a strong will; but from

his mother's blood there was a taint imparted to what

otherwise would have been a magnificent constitution.

The disease---- consumption--which carried off John

Charlton, now made insidious advances on Mrs. Stephen

son; and her husband, whilst he was still only two and

twenty years old, saw his life darkened by the heaviest

misfortune that can befall a poor man--an invalid wife.
In this respect his career sadly resembled the lot of his

father, and years afterwards it was mournfully reproduced

in the experiences of his only son.

   But the young father was not the man to crouch
Ifat the first blast of adversity.
                                     his wife could not

help him, the more reason that he should help himself.

He worked steadily at his engine during the appointed

hours, and employed his evenings in shoemaking and

cobbling and in acquiring the rudiments of mechanics.

Whilst he was spelling out the secrets of his books, and

often as he worked, hammer in hand, he relieved his

sickly wife by taking his son from her cough-racked

breast and nursing him for hours together. Robert's

earliest recollections were of sitting on his father's knee,
watching his brows knit over the difiicult points of a

page, or marking the deftness and precision with which

   ._. .§.:l>---

1803.]  GEORGE STEPHENSON AT WILLINGTON.         9

his right hand plied its craft. The child, too, bore in

body as well as heart a memorial of his father's tender
ness. His seat was always on George's left knee, his
body encircled by his father's left arm. The consequence
was that the left hand and arm, left at liberty by the

position, became stronger and were more often used than

the right; and the child's habit of trusting the left hand,
strengthening with time, gradually developed into a per

manent defect.

   George Stephenson did not remain long at Willington,

but his brief residence on the quay side was marked

by other incidents besides the birth of his child. It

was there that his intercourse with Robert Hawthorn

first took the form of personal intimacy. It was at

Willington, too, that he first took to clock-mending and
clock-cleaning as an additional field of industry. The
pit-man's cabin has points by which it may be dis

tinguished from the southern peasant's cottage.  Its

prominent article of furniture is a good and handsome

bed. Not seldom a colliery workman spends ten, or

fifteen pounds on his bedstead alone, and when he has

bought the costliest he can afford he places it in the
middle of his principal apartment. Invariably he has also a

clock--usually a valuable one--amongst his possessions.
Every village, therefore, abounds in clocks, and as the

people are very particular and even fanciful about them,
a brisk business is everywhere carried on by clock
cleaners. Each petty district has its own clock-cleaner,
who is supported by all the inhabitants; and it is to

be observed that this artificer almost invariably has been

self-taught.
   George Stephenson, therefore, in occupying his spare

F ---, _.-.------ --  __

10                    LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL I.

time in cleaning clocks, did only what the superior and
more intelligent workmen of his time and country were
in the habit of doing. His new employment was lucra
tive, and enabled him, for the first time in his life, to

lay by money out of his own earnings.

    Recent circumstances have connected the Stephensons

in the public .mind with Willington; but their relations
with that township were neither lasting nor intimate.

Scarcely had George Stephenson formed attachments to
his neighbours when he moved to the parish of Long
Benton, where he was engaged as brakesman of the
West Moor colliery engine. On receiving his new ap
pointment, George, now twenty-three years old, with his
wife and little Robert (then in his second year), settled in

a cottage in Killingworth township, close to the West
Moor colliery--about four or five miles to the north of

Newcastle, and about the same distance from Willington

Quay.
    The cottage in which George Stephenson lived on

Willington Quay has been pulled down, but before it
was destroyed the public interest attaching to it was so
great, that photographic pictures and engravings of it
had been circulated in every direction. The site, how

ever, of Robert Stephenson's birthplace is appropriately
preserved. Of the objects which arrest the attention of
a person making the passage up the river from Tyne
mouth to Newcastle, there is nothing of greater archi
tectural merit than the Gothic edifice that stands out

upon Willington Quay. This structure, generally spoken
of as the ` Stephenson Memorial,' comprises (besides
rooms for officers and teachers) two school-rooms, one
for boys and another for girls, and a reading-room

_

   1803.]  THE ` STEPHENSON MEMORIAL.'  11

   for mechanics. The entire building is a model of what

   such a structure ought to be, and the children's play
   grounds are as spacious and well-appointed as the in
   terior of their excellent institution. The exact spot on
   which the Stephenson cottage stood, is now the boys'
   play-ground, in the rear of the school.

           O

12  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL II.

                          CHAPTER II.

                                          LONG BENTON.

                                                   (asmr. 1-9.)

     The West Moor Colliery --` The Street' of Long Benton -- Road
     from Newcastle to Killingworth ---` The Cottage' on the West Moor
    -- View from the Cottage Windows---Apparent Amendment of Mrs.
      Stephenson's Health-----Robert and his Mother visit Black Caller
     ton--Robert Stephenson's Sister--Death of his Mother--George
     Stephenson's Journey to Montrose--Eleanor Stephenson--Her
     great Disappointment--` The Artificials '-- Little R0bert's Visits
     to the Red House Farm, Wolsingham-- ` The Hempy Lad ' ---
    Tommy Rutter's School -- The young Gleaner---A Lesson for the
     Lord's Day --- George Stephenson's Sundays--His Friends, Robert
     Hawthorn and John Steele--The first Locomotive ever built on the
     Banks of the Tyne--Anthony Wigham --Captain Robson--Evenings
     at the West Moor.

                     the close of 1804, George Stephenson

TOWmAoRveDdSto the West Moor colliery, and fixed himself

and family in the little cottage where he resided, till
he made rapid strides to opulence and fame. Long
Benton,* a wide straggling parish, comprising in its five
townships numerous colonies of operatives, presents those
contrasts of wealth and poverty for which mining and
manufacturing districts are proverbial. The long irregular
street of the village is not without beauty. The vicarage

   " In this parish Smeaton, in 17 72, erected the large atmospheric engine,
which formed the standard engine before Watt's improvements.---W. P.

1804.]  THE COTTAGE AT LONG BENTON.  13

is a picturesque dwelling, and on either side of the road,
surrounded by gardens, with paths of crushed slag and
refuse coal, and plantations of a somewhat sooty hue, are
the houses of prosperous agents and employers. The
general aspect of the place, however, is humble, and the
abodes of the poorer inhabitants are comfortless.

    The road from Newcastle to Long Benton quits the
town at the northern outskirt, and, leaving ` the moor '

on the left, passes through the picturesque plantations
of Jesmond Vale (watered by the brawling Dean that
flows to Ouseburn), and, having ascended the bold and
richly wooded sweep of Benton Banks, leads on over a
bleak and unattractive level to Long Benton, where art

and nature again combine to render the landscape attrac

tive. Pursuing its course down the disjointed village, the
road descends to the church, where it turns to the left

over a rustic stone bridge, curves round a corner of the

churchyard, and bears away to Killingworth township
and the West Moor colliery.

    The cottage in which the young brakesman and his
middle-aged wife settled, was a small two-roomed tenement.
Even as it now stands, enlarged by George Stephenson to
the dignity of a house with four apartments, it is a quaint

little den--a toy-house rather than a habitation for a

family. The upper rooms are very low, and one of them
is merely a closet. The space of the lower floor is made
the most of, and is divided into a vestibule and two apart
ments. Over the little entrance door, in the outer wall,
is a sun-dial, of which mention will be made hereafter.

The principal room of the house is on the left hand of the
entrance, and in it stands to this day a piece of furniture
which is now t11c property of Mr. Lancelot Gibson, the

14                     LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.          [OIL II.

hospitable occupant of the cottage. This article of furni

ture is a high strong-built cheffonier, with a book-case

surmounting            a it,and was placed in the apartment by
                                 it
George Stephenson himself. Of this chattel mention will

be made elsewhere in these pages.

    The view from the little garden, in front of this cabin,
                                                           A

                                                                      is
as fine as any in the neighbourhood of Newcastle.            road

way leading to the North Shields turnpike road runs along

the garden rails; on the other side of the road        is    small
                                                          a

paddock, not hundred yards in width, beyond the farther
confine of which are the mud walls of the `glebe farm

house, of which George Stephenson's friend Wigham was

tenant. On the right hand, buried in trees, Gosforth   is

Hall, formerly the residence of the Mr. Brandling who

fought George's battle in the matter of the safety lamp,
and whose name--though he has long been dead--is

never mentioned by the inhabitants of the district without

some expression of affectionate regard. Newcastle cannot

be seen but clearly visible the blue-hill ridge beyond
     on the farther decline of which rests the seat of the

Liddells--Ravensworth Castle.
it,                                  is
                    ;                                                                   a

    The excitement of moving to Killingworth was for

time beneficial to Mrs. Stephenson's health. She became

more cheerful; and, that she might have every chance

of amendment, George Stephenson prevailed on her

to visit her sister Elizabeth, who had married Thomas

Pattison, farmer of Black Callerton.
    a
    This apparent improvement in health, which her husa

band attributed altogether to the excitement of movinga

to new home, was, however, little more than the or

dinary consequence of pregnancy, which well known  is

to stay for brief space the treacherous incursions of

1806.]       DEATH OF HIS MOTHER.      15

phthisical malady. In the July of 1805 she was put to

*_bed, and Robert Stephenson had a sister who lived just
three weeks  long enough to be named Frances after

her mother, to be admitted into Christ's Church, and to

taste something of human suffering. Her little girl born,

dead, and buried, the bereaved mother relapsed into her

previous condition. The cold winter and spring, with its

keen north-eastern winds sweeping over the country,

completed the slow work of consumption, and before

Benton banks and Jesmond vale had again put forth

their green leaves, she was quiet in her last earthly rest in

Benton churchyard.

Deprived of his mother, before he had completed his

third year, Robert Stephenson was placed under the

care of the women who were successively George's
housekeepers. Of the three housekeepers who lived in

the West Moor cabin, the first and last were superior
women. Soon after the death of his wife, George

Stephenson went for a few months to Scotland, where

he was employed as engineer in a large factory near

Montrose. On making this journey, he left little Robert

in the custody of his first housekeeper, at Killing

worth. On his return he was surprised, and slightly

angry, at finding his house shut up, and without inmates.

In his absence, the housekeeper (who was in every

respect an excellent woman) had become the wife of his

   * The Long Benton registers con     Aged 3 weeks.
tain the following entries : --
                                          2. Buried 1806, Frances Stephen
   1. Frances Stephenson, West Moor    son, late Henderson, West Moor,
Colliery, d. of George Stephenson      wife of George Stevenson (sic). Died
and Frances his wife, late Henderson.  May 14. Buried May 16. Aged 37
Died Aug. 3, 1805. Buried Aug. 4.      years .

16          LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.           [C11 II.

brother Robert, in whose dwelling the little boy then

was. Recovering possession of his child, George Stephen

son again established himself at the West Moor, engaged

a second housekeeper, and, having well-nigh emptied

his pockets by paying some debts of his poor blind              J
father, and by purchasing a substitute for service in the
                                                                l
militia, once more set to work resolutely as brakesman,        |

cobbler, and clock-cleaner. The burden of an invalid           $

.wife, of which he had been relieved, was replaced by

the burden of a helpless father. Struck blind by an

accident which has been already mentioned, ` Old Robert'

was maintained  in comfort  by his  sons  until  the time  of
                                                      '

his death.

    George's second selection of a housekeeper was not so

fortunate as his first, but he soon dismissed her, and

received into his cottage his sister Eleanor, or, as her

name is spelt in the family register, Elender. This

worthy and pious woman, born on April 16, 1784,

was nearly three years the junior of her brother, and

consequently was still young when she came to keep             Q11 "I=

his house. But young as she was, she had made ac

quaintance With sorrow. A merry lass, she went up

to London to fill a place of domestic service, having

first plighted her troth to a young man in her own

rank of life, under a promise to return and become

his bride whenever he wished to marry her. A year or

two passed, when, in accordance with this agreement,

her lover summoned her back to Northumberland.

Eleanor went on board a Newcastle vessel homeward

bound. Bl-fortune sent adverse breezes. The passage

from the Thames to the Tyne consumed three weeks, and

when the poor girl placed her foot on the quay side of

                                                               I ll

1806.]              ` THE ARTIFICIALS.'                                            17

the Northumbrian capital, the first piece of intelligence

she received was that her faithless lover was already the
husband of another.

    George Stephenson invited his sister to his house, and
she, seeing a field of usefulness before her, wisely accepted
the invitation. Her sister Ann having already married,

and migrated to the United States, Eleanor was to George

as an only sister.

The record of one trifling but pathetic difference

between George and Eleanor is still preserved by family

gossip. When Eleanor first took up her abode at the
West Moor colliery, she wore some cheap artificial

flowers in her bonnet. The sad experiences of the four

preceding years had made the young brakesman less

gentle in his temper and more practical in his views.
Rude love of truth and dislike of shame caused him

to conceive a dislike for these `artificials,' as he con

temptuously termed them. He asked Eleanor to throw

them away, but she, averring that they cost good money,

declined to do so.

I` Nay, then,' said George, stretching out his hand, `let
me take them out and throw them away, and                                          give
a
                                                                              'll
thee shilling.'

But Eleanor, usually so meek and gentle, drew back.

George saw her secret and blundered out an apology.

The poor girl had put those flowers in her bonnet, in the

vain hope that they would render her comely face more ac

ceptable to her false lover. She had been rightly punished

for what she called her worldly vanity; and in humble

acknowledgment of her error, she determined to wear

the artificials as memorial of her foolishness.
`

              I.

                                         '

                                   a
                                                             o
From her early days she had been seriously inclined;

VOL.

18  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL II.

and her recent disappointment gave a tone to her mind
that was not to be outgrown. Joining the Wesleyan
Methodists, she regularly attended their prayer-meetings;
and all who remember her bear witness that her labours
of unassuming charity aptly enforced the teaching of her
lips. Her spare hours were employed in visiting the
sick, and repeating long passages from the Bible to those
who were themselves unable to spell out the secrets of
` the Word.'

   It was a bright day for little Robert when this young

woman entered the cottage at the West Moor, and took
him into her affectionate keeping. The best and most

pleasant glimpses that can be obtained of his childhood,

show the healthiest relations to have subsisted between
him and this good aunt.

   Every few months Aunt Nelly used to take the child
to visit his various relatives scattered about the country.
Ann Henderson had become the wife of Joseph Burn of
the Red House farm, Wolsingham. She had done better

had she been content with the poor young brakesman;
but she was for a time the most important personage in the

family. She had a strong feeling of kindliness for George,
and when her sister Fanny was no more, she was con

stant in her hospitality to her nephew. A visit to Wol

singham was the child's highest ideal of happiness; and
when he was there he used to repay his relations for
their goodness by mimicking the peculiarities of his
Killingworth acquaintance. Aunt Burn was in the habit
of giving the little fellow, for his breakfast, fresh eggs with
butter in them. This luxurious fare, so unlike what he

was accustomed to in his father's cottage, appeared to
him in the light of a strange and important discovery,

C1110. 1809.]  THE SCHOOL AT LONG BENTON.  19

and it is still remembered how he gravely informed his
Aunt Burn that `when he went home, he'd teach his
Aunt Eleanor to eat eggs and butter.'

    Another excursion made by the child was to Ryle,

where his aunt Hannah Henderson had married Mr.
Elliot, a small innkeeper. The time of the year was sum
mer, and as the journey was made on foot, little Bobby

and his aunt rested several times on the dusty road, and
refreshed themselves at wayside houses of entertain

ment. A gill of mild `yell ' was the modest order, inva

riably made by the aunt, and the half pint of drink
was always divided between herself and her charge. On
reaching Ryle the child found his tongue and impudence,

and astounded his relatives by asserting that his staid

aunt could not pass an ale-house without entering it.

` Ah! he was a hempy lad,' is the conclusion given
amongst his humble relations to nearly all the stories of

Robert Stephenson's early life.
    Midway in the straggling street of Long Benton, on

the right hand of the traveller going from Newcastle

to Killingworth township, stands a stone cottage, com
posed of two rooms--one on the ground-floor, the other
upstairs. For many years this has been the village school.

At the present time the schoolmaster, in addition to his
vocation of teacher, holds the office of postmaster--a fact
set forth in bold characters on the exterior of the dwelling.
On one side of the school-room, at a rude desk, sit eight or

ten boys, whilst on the opposite side are ranged the same

number of girls. At one end of the stone floor, between

the two companies, sits the instructor, whose terms for
instruction vary from threepence to sixpence per week for
each pupil. When Robert Stephenson was a little boy,

                                                                  c2

20         LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.    [CIL II.

the master of this school was Thomas Rutter. Fifty years
ago the village schoolmaster had in many districts a more
lucrative business than he enjoys in the present genera

tion. A majority of the surrounding men of business

were dependent on a neighbour endowed with `learn
ing ' for the management of their accounts. By keeping
the books of prosperous mechanics and petty traders,

and by instructing adults bent on self-education, the
village schoolmaster found the chief . part of his work
and payment, apart from his classes for the young.
Tommy Rutter, as he is still familiarly called by the aged
inhabitants of Long Benton, was both successful and well

esteemed.

    To Tommy Rutter's school Robert Stephenson was sent,

and there he learnt his letters, at the same desk and

under the same master as another distinguished child of

Long Benton--Dr. Addison, the eminent physician, whose

death under mournful circumstances recently created wide

and painful sensation.  In Rutter's time the girls were

taught by Mrs. Rutter in the room upstairs, the ground

floor apartment being filled with lads--the sons of work

men at the surrounding collieries, and of small dealers

-living in adjacent townships. Many of them had never

worn shoe or boot; but, though bare-footed, they were

canny, hardy youngsters, and several of them have raised

themselves to conditions of prosperity.

    The exact year of Robert's entry into Rutter's school

cannot be ascertained, but he was quite a little fellow

when he first felt his master's cane. The walk over the

glebe farm and past the churchyard from the West Moor

to Long Benton Street --a distance of about a mile, or a

mile and a half --was a long way for him, and Aunt

Crnc. 1809.]  THE GLEANING.            .                21

Nelly used to pity her bairn for having to trudge so
far, to and fro. He had not been long at school when
the season of harvest came, and Aunt Nelly went out

gleaning.
   Little Robert Stephenson petitioned his father for leave

to accompany Aunt Eleanor and the gleaners. George by
no means approved the request, as he argued that he
did not pay fourpence, or possibly sixpence, a week for
his son's schooling, in the expectation that the young

scholar should leave his books at the first temptation.

   But the petition was granted in the following terms : --

    ` Weel, gan; but thou maun be oot a' day. . Nae skulk
ing, and nae shirking. And thou maun gan through fra

the first t' th' end o' gleaning.'
    On this understanding Robert and Aunt Eleanor started

for their vagrant toil, but long before sunset the boy was
very tired. He kept up manfully, however, and as he
trotted homewards at nightfall by the side of his aunt,

he, like her, carried a full bag. At the gate of the West

Moor cabin stood George Stephenson, ready to welcome
them. Quickly discerning the eifort Robert was making

to appear gallant and fresh, the father enquired :

`Weel, Bobby, hoo did the' come on?'

` Vara weel, father,' answered Bobby stoutly.

The next day, bent on not giving in, the boy rose early,

and for a second time accompanied the gleaners. The

poor child slept for hours under the hedgerows; and

when evening came he trotted home, bag in hand, but

holding on to Aunt Nelly's petticoats. Again at the

garden wicket George received them, with am' used look,
and the same enquiry:
                       -

` Weel, Bobby, hoo did the' come on?'               ~~

22  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL II.

   ` Middlin, father,' answered Bobby sulkily ; and, drop
ping his bag, he hastened into the cottage, and was asleep
in- a couple of minutes.

    The third day came, and little Robert did his bravest
amongst the gleaners: but the day was too much for
him; his pride gave in, and on lagging home at night
fall, when he was once more asked by his father, ` Weel,
Bobby, hoo did the' come on? ' he burst into tears, and
cried, ` Oh, father, warse and warse, warse and warse:

let me gan to school agyen.'

   It was not the time then to point the moral of those

last three days, but the next day (Sunday, when even
gleaners rest) the young father took his child under his
arm, and placing him on the knee where he had so often
sat, told him to be a good boy over his book, to leave
hard work of the body for a few years to his elders, and

to thank God that he (unlike his father) was not in child

hood required to toil hard all day for a few pence. It

was a sermon fit for a day of rest, and from no lips could
it have come more appropriately than from the lips of

George Stephenson.

    Aunt Eleanor sat by, and heard George's paternal
admonition, and was well pleased with its grave and
serious tone. To tell the truth, the Sundays at the West
Moor cottage were not altogether in accordance with
Aunt Eleanor's views. George resolutely declined to
accompany his sister to the meetings of the Wesleyan
Methodists; and, what to her seemed even worse, he

was by no means a regular attendant at Long Benton

church. Sunday was the day when, walking up and down

the colliery railway, he pondered over the mechanical
problems which were then vexing the brains of all the

1805-12.] GEORGE STEPHENSON'S EARLY FRIENDS.            23

intelligent workmen of the neighbouring country. It was

his day, too, for receiving friends.
   Of George's early associates Robert Hawthorn has

been already specially mentioned--and the relations

between them have been briefly stated. Whilst George

Stephenson and William Locke worked under Haw~

thorn, they found him an exacting and tyrannical su

pervisor. They both resented his domination, believing

that he was jealous of their mechanical genius, afraid of

being supplanted or surpassed by them, and anxious to

keep them under. George Stephenson retained for many

years a grudge against Hawthorn, but he was too pru

dent openly to quarrel with the cleverest engine-wright
of the district. Slowly advancing himself from the
position of a brakesman, whose duty it is simply to

regulate the action of a steam-engine, to the higher

status of the smith, or wright, who mends and even

constructs the machine itself, George stood in frequent

need of the counsel and countenance of Hawthorn, then

his superior in knowledge, as he was also in age. The

practice of the engine-wrights of George Stephenson's

Killingworth  days was  very  different  from  that     of the
                                                     '

educated engineers of a later date.

John Steele, another of George Stephenson's early and

most valued friends, was a man worthy of especial men

tion; as his relations with Trevithick, and his ascertained

influence on the history of the locomotive, give value to

the few particulars that can be picked up with regard to

him. The son of a poor North-countryman, who was

originally a coachman and afterwards a brakesman on

the Pontop Railway, John Steele in his early childhood
displayed remarkable ingenuity in the construction of

24 LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.        II.

models of machines- His schoolfellows at Colliery Dykes

used to marvel at the correctness of ` his imitations of pit

engines,' and remember how in school ` the master could
never set him fast' in figures. While he was still a

school-lad, his leg was accidentally crushed on the
Pontop tramway. After leaving the Newcastle infirmary,
where the limb was amputated, he was apprenticed by

the proprietary of the Pontop Railway to Mr. John
Whinfield, the iron-founder and engineer of the Pipewell
gate, Gateshead. Whilst serving his apprenticeship he
attracted the attention, not only of his masters, but also
of Trevithick, who in nothing displayed his consummate
genius more forcibly than in the sagacity with which he
selected his servants and apprentices. In the autumn of
1860, the only sister of John Steele was still living, at a

very advanced age, at Ovingham, under the benevolent
protection of Mr. T. Y. Hall, of Newcastle, and could re
member that Trevithick invited her brother to leave

Whinfield's factory during his apprenticeship and to join
him. Steele, however, remained at Gateshead until he
had ` served his time,' and then joined Trevithick, during
the manufacture of the locomotive constructed by that
original mechanician in 1803 and 1804, in the latter of
which years the engine won the memorable wager
between Mr. Homfray, of Penydarren works, and Mr.
Richard Crawshay, of the Cyfarthfa works. Returning
from Trevithick's works to Gateshead, Steele, ir1 1804,

built the first locomotive which ever acted on the

banks of the Tyne.* This engine was made in Whin

   " The facts connected with this   columns of the Gateshead Observer
engine were brought to light in the  and the lllining Journal. The curious

1805-12.]  STEELE'S LOCOMOTIVE ENGINE.                                                                                25

field's factory for Mr. Blackett of the Wylam colliery;

but owing to the imperfections in its structure, it was

never put on the Wylam line, but was used as a fixed

engine in a Newcastle iron-foundry. Speaking of this

engine, Mr. Nicholas Wood, whose book on Railroads has

:_been copied by all writers on the subject, observes

`The engine erected by Mr. Trevithick had one cylin

der only, with a fly-wheel to secure a rotatory motion

in the crank at the end of each stroke. An engine of

this kind was sent to the North for Mr. Blackett of

Wylam, but was, for some cause or other, never used

upon his railroad, but was applied to blow a cupola at

the iron-foundry at Newcastle.' In this statement Mr.

VVood fell into a pardonable but not unimportant error.

The engine was undoubtedly in all essential points a re
production of the one already made by Trevithick, with

whose name, even more than with those of Leopold,
Cugnot, Oliver Evans, or William Murdock, will be

associated the practical introduction of the steam loco

motive; but it was made in Gateshead about the year

1804. It is equally certain that John Steele made
           it
                                   it

                                                                a

                                                                       it,
and that when was finished                     ran on temporary

way laid down in Whinfield's yard at Gateshead. John

Turnbull, of Eighton Banks, living in 1858, remembered

the engine being made, whilst he was serving his appren

ticeship at Whinfield's factory. When was completed,
it

                 '
                                               `
                                                                 2,
                                                                                           9,

                                                        it

                                                                                                                2, `
ran, according to Turnbull's account, backwards and

forwards quite well, much to the gratification of the

quality who came to see her run.'

are referred for farther information  the Gateshead Observer for August
to the Mining Journal for October
                                      28, September 18, October                                                       and
1858, and October 16, 1858, and to
                                      October  in the same year, 1858.

26  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                               [C11. II.

   The subsequent career of John Steele was adventurous.                l
He was employed by the British Government to raise                      l
                                                                        \
sunken ships; and, according to his sister's account, re
ceived a medal for his efforts to raise the ` Royal George.'            1
                                                                        l
Subsequently he went abroad, and having established
a foundry and machine factory at La Gare, near Paris,
was commissioned to make some engines for several
boat companies. His death occurred under painful but
characteristic circumstances. Whilst engaged at Lyons

in fitting engines on board a boat, he met with Mr.
Charles Manby, a gentleman since well known as the
Secretary of the Institution of Civil Engineers, but who
at that time (1824-5) was engaged in engineering pur
suits in France. On the day when Steele's vessel was

tried, Mr. Manby took his workmen on board to assist

his countryman. On going below, he perceived that the

engineman had fastened down the safety-valve, with the
avowed intention of `making her go or bursting her.'
Seeing the danger, Mr. Manby and his men hastily quitted

the ill-starred vessel. A few minutes later the boiler

burst, and by the explosion Steele was killed, together
with several important persons of Lyons and many of the

spectators on the quays.*
    Anthony Wigham, another of George's intimate asso

ciates, was the farmer occupying the glebe farm of Long

Benton, the cottage-house on which small holding stands
within sight of the West Moor cabin. He was a bad

farmer, and, as bad farmers usually are, a poor one ; but

he had mastered the principal rules of arithmetic, and
had a smattering of natural .philosophy. George culti

    " Minutes of Proceedings Inst. C. E., vol. xii. p. 143.

                                                                        I
                                                                        l

1805-12.]  THE SAFETY LAMP.                          27

vated the farmer's acquaintance, and gained from him all

the little knowledge he could impart. The teacher was

in after life amply repaid for his lessons. Bad farming

was in due course followed by commercial failure, and

when the farmer was at a loss where to look for daily
bread, George Stephenson--then grown a rich man--

took him to Tapton House,.and, having made him the

superintendent of his stables, treated him kindly to the

last.

   Another of George Stephenson's early friends was
Captain Robson, a hale, hearty, manly sailor. His early
life had been passed on board a man-of-war, and he

afterwards became captain of a Newcastle trading

vessel, built for him by his -father. Marrying the only
daughter of a prosperous farmer, Captain Robson gave up

sea--life, and became a farmer in Killingworth township.

It was in his house that George discussed his schemes for

the construction of the famous safety-lamp. After again

turning sailor and again relinquishing the sea, the captain
still lives to tell his version of the way in which the

secret of the invention of the lamp was foolishly blabbed

by Dr. Burnet, the colliery-doctor, to his brother-in-law,

Mr. Buddle, the viewer, who, he alleges, speedily conveyed

the information to Sir Humphry Davy. The captain's

story, thoroughly believed as it is by the veteran,  of
           it
                                       is,
course, not to be relied upon; but forms an amusing

counterpart to the angry accusations preferred by Sir
Humphry's friends against George Stephenson, of having
surreptitiously possessed himself of the philosopher's

secret.

Hawthorn and Steele, living at distance, were com
           a
                                           George saw
                              -
paratively rare visitors at Killingworth.

28  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL II.

more of them on pay-nights at Newcastle, when he and all
the clever mechanics of the country round met together,
and exchanged views on the difficult `jobs' then engaging
the attention of the local engine-wrights; the simple

workmen thus unconsciously creating the earliest and
the finest school of practical engineering. When, how
ever, either Hawthorn or Steele did make an appear
ance at the West Moor, the favourite topic was the
possibility of employing steam for purposes of locomo
tion. Every word that came from Steele--Trevithick's
pupil and workman, who had himself within six miles
of Killingworth built a machine which, with all its
defects, had actually travelled under the influence of
steam-- George Stephenson stored up in his memory.
Steele was never weary of prophesying, that ` the day
would come when the locomotive engine would be fairly

tried, and would then be found to answer.' N0 wonder

that George Stephenson caught enthusiasm from such a

teacher.

                                                                  29

                       CHAPTER III.

                   ROBERT STEPHENSON, THE SCHOOLBOY.

                                                         (a-:-rs-r. 9-15.)

    Robert and the Pitman's Picks--` Mind the Bniks' --George Ste
    phenson's pecuniary Position whilst his Son attended Rutter's
    School -- George appointed Engineer to the Collieries of ` The
    Grand Allies' --- The Locomotive on the Wylam Line -- George
    Stephenson's first Locomotive--I-Iis Appointment to the `Walker

     Iron-works '--` Bruce's Academy '--The Cost of Robert's Tuition at

    the School -Robert Stephenson's Reception by his new Schoolfellows
    -- The Boy's delicate Health -- The Purchase of his Donkey-- John
    Tate--Riva-l Safety Lamps--Testimonial and Public Dinner to George
    Stephenson for his Lamp--Home Gossip--` Throwing the Hammer'
    --George Stephenson's Views with regard to the Education of his
    Son -- Robert Stephenson's Plan of a Sun-Dial.

         soon as little Robert was strong enough to help

-AS his father, he was put to do such jobs as were

suited to his powers. One of his earliest recollections
in after life was of having to carry the pitmen's picks
to the smith's shop in Long Benton, when they needed
repair. This commission he executed on his way to
Tommy Rutter's school, and as he returned home he
used to bring the implements back. Two years before
his death, after his brilliant career of adventure and suc
cess, he visited Long Benton with some friends, and

pointed out to them the route over the fields, along
which he used to trudge laden with the hewers'

30  LIFE OFROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL HI.

implements. But George's chief injunction to his only
child was to ` mind the buiks.' The father was deter

mined that his boy should not commence the real battle

of life, as he had done, unable to cipher, or write, or

even to read.

   An erroneous impression exists that George Stephen

son denied himself the indulgences appropriate to his
condition in order that he might give his boy a
superior education, and that in sending his son to school
he showed his superiority to most- of his fellow-work
men. He felt personally the disadvantages of a very
defective education, and he determined that his son

should not labour under the same want.

   In 1812, on the death of Cree, the engine-wright of the

Killingworth colliery, George Stephenson was appointed
engineer, with a salary of £100 per annum, to the con
tiguous collieries possessed by Sir Thomas Liddell, Mr.
Stuart Wortley, and the Earl of Strathmore--the ` grand

allies,' as they were called in the neighbourhood. In

addition to this salary, George had the proceeds of
his clock-mending and clock-cleaning business --- a much
more important source of gain than has hitherto been
supposed. He not only kept in order the clocks of the
pitmen and superior workmen, but performed the same
service for surrounding farmers. Farmer Robson paid
him half-a-crown for cleaning watch or clock. He was

also regularly employed at a fixed annual sum to
attend to the clocks in the establishments of several

wealthy gentlemen of the vicinity. Moreover, throughout
the term of his Killingworth residence, he lived rent-free
and had his fuel from the pit. During the year, also,

he increased his income considerably by jobs connected

1812.]  EDUCATION.                       31

with the repair of machinery. His income therefore
amounted in 1812 to about £150. With such means
at his command it was only natural that he should
give his son the rudiments of education at the village
school. Thus in sending Robert Stephenson to Rutter's
school, George Stephenson only did as every reputable
father of his own station and of similar means in the

parish of Long Benton did as a matter of course.
   On gaining the important post of engineer to the

collieries of the `grand allies,' George Stephenson's

advances towards success became quicker, and at the
same time easier. Watchful of all that was going on in

the neighbourhood relative to the steam engine, he

knew the result of the memorable experiments on the
Wylam line, as soon as they were accomplished. On
that line it was first proved by Mr. Hedley, the viewer of
Mr. Blackett's colliery, that the adhesion* of smooth

   " `About this time Mr. Blackett         `It was, however, a question of

had considerably improved his en         the utmost importance to ascertain
gines, and by experiments had as
certained the quantity of adhesion       if the adhesion of the wheels of the
of the wheels upon the rails, and had
                                         engine upon the rails were sufiicient
proved that it was sufficient to effect  to produce a progressive motion in
                                         the engine, when loaded with a
the locomotion of the engine upon        train of carriages, without the aid
railroads approaching nearly to a
level, or with a moderate inclination.   of any other contrivance; and it
His railroad was a plate-rail, and
                                         was by the introduction and con
would consequently present more          tinued use of them upon the Wylam
friction, or resistance, to the wheels   railroad that this question was de
than the edge-rail, and on that ac       cided: and it was proved that upon
count the amount of adhesion would       railroads nearly level, or with very
                                         moderate inclination, the adhesion
be greater than upon the other rail.     of the wheels alone was sufficient, in
Still the credit is due to Mr. Blackett  all the different kinds of weather,
                                         when the surface of the rails was
for proving that locomotion could be     not covered with snow.
applied by that means only.' --Mr.
Nicholas Wood's Treatise on Rail            `Mr. Hedley informs us that they

roads, third ed. p. 285.                 first tried by manual labour how

32           LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                               [OIL III.

wheels on smooth rails would afford sufiicient resistance to

enable an engine to drag a train of loaded carriages. And
it was on that same line, between Wylam and Lemington,
that engines with smooth wheels, running on smooth rails,
first took the place of horses and oxen for purposes of

traffic.

   The alacrity with which George Stephenson, the self

taught engineer, comprehended the importance of the
Wylam discoveries, and put them in practice upon the
Killingworth line, in locomotives of his own construction,

which were fully equal in efficiency to those on the Wylam

way, attracted general attention to his proceedings. It

was seen that he was a man who, with favourable oppor
tunities, would become a distinguished engineer. The

Wylam way was laid with plate rails, whilst the Killing

worth line had edge rails. George Stephenson therefore

built ` the first locomotive engine that propelled itself by

the adhesion of its wheels on edge rails.' The first trial

of the engine took place on July 25, 1814, with marked

success.     When the training and antecedents of the

young workman (then only thirty-three years of age) are                                           ll \

taken into consideration, the achievement seems almost

incredible.

   Amongst the gentlemen of the neighbourhood who
watched the progress and hailed the success of .George

Stephenson's first engine, no one was more enthusiastic
than Mr. Losh, the senior partner of the firm of `Losh,

much weight the wheels of a com-       engine would Pi-oduce sufficient ad
1110n carriage W0111d 0VrCOII1e With-
Out 51iPPing r01H1<1 "P0n the Tail;    hesion to drag after                           upon their
and having found the proportion      it
bore to the weight, they thence as-
certained that the weight of the                                   a
                                                                            P.

                                                                                 it,
                                       railroad, requisite number of car

                                       1'i9.geg.'__XVQ0d's 1'7-gatigg on Rm].

                                       roads, third ed.  237_

1815.]   ADVANCEMENT OF GEORGE STEPHENSON.  33

Wilson, and Bell.' This highly cultivated gentleman,

the fellow-student and friend of Humboldt, survived in a

venerable old age in the autumn of 1860, to tell the
story of his intercourse with George Stephenson. With
a large capital embarked in the Walker iron-works, as

well as in his chemical factories, he saw in the engine

wright a man well fitted-to carry out his enterprises and
to suggest new ones. He made overtures to him; and,

in the beginning of the year 1815, an arrangement was

made that George Stephenson should come to the Walker

iron-works for two days in each week, receiving for his

services a salary of £100 per annum, besides participation
in all profits arising from his inventions. To secure his
good fortune in this compact from all drawback, the
`grand allies,' with proper liberality to an engineer who

had served them well, gave him permission to accept

Mr. Losh's offer, and at the same time retain his post at

Killingworth with an undiminished salary.
    George Stephenson, with these two concurrent ap

pointments yielding him a clear £200 per annum, besides

perquisites and the participation in profits reserved to
him by Losh, Wilson, and Bell, began to feel himself a
rising man. Industrious as ever, he retained his clock

cleaning business; and he had made some not unim

portant savings. A prosperous mechanic, with a good

income, unmarried, and with brighter prospects opening

before him, could not think of giving his only child no

better education than that which a village schoolmaster

imparted to the children of ordinary workmen.

   It was no part of his plan to bring up his son with

an expense and refinement unusual in his station, but he

wished to educate him in accordance with the rules of

v0L. I.  D

34  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL HI.

his rank. He placed him, therefore, when he was nearly
twelve years old, as a day-pupil in an academy at New
castle, kept by Mr. Bruce.

   The friend and biographer of Dr. Hutton, and the
author of several educational works of great merit,
Mr. John Bruce had raised his school to such excellence
that it then ranked higher than the Newcastle grammar
school, where Lord Stowell, Lord Eldon, and Lord Col

lingwood received their early instruction. The `Percy

Street Academy '_- as Mr. Bruce's seminary was and still

is oalled--was then attended by more than a hundred
pupils, who might be described as a good style of
`middle-class boys.' Some few were the sons of the
minor gentry of the vicinity, but the majority were the
sons of professional men and traders of Newcastle and
Gateshead. Not one half of the boys learned either
Greek or Latin. Amongst those who did not receive
classical instruction was Robert Stephenson, who entered

the school on August 14, 1815, and remained there
four years. During that time, the whole sum paid for
his education fell short of £40. The expenditure, there
fore, for a father in George Stephenson's circumstances,
was sufficient and appropriate, but nothing more.

    On Robert Stephenson's appearance at the Percy Street
academy he had to encounter the criticisms of lads
 who regarded him as beneath them in social condition.

`A thin-framed, thin-faced, delicate boy, with his face

 covered with freckles,'* dressed in corduroy trowsers
 and a blue coat-jacket, the handiwork of the tailor

   " Such is the description of him given by a Newcastle gentleman who
distinctly remembers his first coming to Bruce's school.

1815.]  MR. BRUCE'S SCHOOL.  35

 employed by the Killingworth pitmen, the new-comer
 presented many marks for play-ground satire. On his

 shoulder he carried a bag containing his books and a
 dinner of rye-bread and cheese. The clattering made

by the heavy iron-cased soles of his boots on the school
floor did not escape the notice of the lads. Mr.
Bruce was on the look-out to see that he was not im

properly annoyed; but there was no occasion for the

master's interference. In Robert's dark eyes there was
a soft light of courtesy that conciliated the elder boys.

When they entered into conversation with him, however,
they could not refrain from laughing outright. Grulf as

their own voices were with Northumbrian `burr,' they

were unused to the deep, guttural pit-intonations with

which Robert expressed himself. It was no slight trial to

a sensitive child just twelve years old to find himself the
object of ridicule. Puzzled as to what he had said that

was ludicrous, and deeply mortified, he turned away, and
kept silence till the business of school-hours commenced.

   At first Robert Stephenson walked to and from school
--a distance in all of about ten miles; and this labour dis
inclined him for joining in the sports of the play-ground.
At dinner he held no intercourse with his schoolfellows ;

for while they consumed the more luxurious fare pro
vided for them by Mrs. Bruce, he ate the inexpensive
provision put into his satchel by Aunt Eleanor, or par
took of the frugal fare of an uncle's family. Gradually,
however, he became a favourite with the lads. But it

soon became clear that Robert Stephenson was not strong
enough to bear the long walk each night and morning.
He was liable to catch cold, and the tendency it had

to strike at his lungs made his father apprehensive

                                                                   1) 2

36  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL HI.

that tubercular consumption might attack him. At this

time, too, the boy was afflicted with profuse nightly
perspirations, to obviate which the doctors made him

sleep on a hay mattress. A step more likely to do good

was taken by George Stephenson, who purchased for
the boy a donkey, which was for years the pride of
Long Benton. Robert had for a long time been in pos

session of a dog and a blackbird, which he used to aver
were the cleverest inhabitants of the village. His new

acquisition gave him lively satisfaction, and he was prouder
of it than he was in after life of any horse in his stable.
To spare his ` cuddy,' he used, in fine weather, to walk
and ride to school on alternate days.

    John Tate (in 1860 the foreman blacksmith at the
colliery,) the son of George Stephenson's old friend,
Robert Tate, formerly the landlord of the Killing
worth ` Three Tuns,' was in early boyhood the fami
liar companion of Robert Stephenson. The two lads

 had many a prank together. Shortly before Robert

left Rutter's school, they were out birds'-nesting, when
Robert fell from a high branch of a tree to the ground,
 and lay for a minute stunned. - On recovering his con

 sciousness, he experienced so much pain on moving one
 of his arms that he nearly fainted. ` My arm is broken,
 John Tate,' the little fellow said quietly; ` you must
 carry me home.' Luckily John Tate had not far to

 carry him. In due course the broken arm was set ; but

 throughout the operation, and indeed from the time
 when he told John Tate to carry him home until he was

 asleep, he did not utter a cry of pain. A child of eleven

 years who could evince such fortitude was clearly made

 0f tho right stuff.

1816.]  THE RIVAL SAFETY-LAMPS.                         37

The first half year of Robert Stephenson's career at

the Percy Street academy was an eventful one with his

father. It saw the invention of the Geordie safety

lamp, and the outbreak of that contest between Sir

Humphry Davy and the Northumbrian engine-wright, in

which the latter unquestionably displayed the greater

dignity and moderation. George Stephenson's first lamp

was tried on October 21, 1815. In the Northumbrian coal

fields three lamps are used more than any of the others

which inventors have contrived for the protection of the

miner,-- Dr. C1anny's lamp of the year 1813, and the

lamps invented two years later by the scientific rea

soner Sir Humphry Davy, and the practical mechanician

George Stephenson. The principle in each of these

last-named lamps is identical, but the two originators
arrived at it by very different processes. To decide on
the respective merits of these lamps is no part of this
work. Each has its supporters; and the partizans of a

particular kind of ` safety-lamp ' are scarcely less vehe
ment and uncharitable in their zeal, than are the de

fenders of a particular school of religious opinion. In

the mines where ` the Glanny' is used, nothing but ` the

Clarmy' has a chance of trial, or a good word.          The
same is the case with ` the Davy ' and ` the Geordie.'  One

thing, however, is certain. An efficient and luminous

safety-lamp is still to be invented. It is amusing to hear

the virtuous indignation of those who, never having

visited the narrow passages of a coal mine, vehemently
condemn the fool-hardiness and perversity of miners who

prefer the candle to the lamp. So dim a ray is emitted
by `the Davy' or `the Geordie,' it is far from won

derful that underground toilers should regard them as

38  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL III.

obstacles to industry rather than as agents for the pre
servation of life.

   With regard to George Stephenson and his invention,
the time has come for the final sweeping away of a
fiction. The true nobility of the elder Stephenson is
only insulted by those- who would surround it with the
vulgar glare of melodramatic heroism. Amongst the
many anecdotes by which indiscreet eulogists have hoped
to exalt the fame of a remarkable man, is the story that
George Stephenson, to test the worth of his lamp, took
it on the memorable night of October 21, 1815, into
the foulest part of a foul mine, at the peril of instant
destruction. Had such a risk been necessary to pre
serve the lives of his fellow-creatures, such conduct

would have entitled him to endless praise for self
sacrificing intrepidity. But as he knew there was no
need to incur such danger, the act attributed to him

would have deserved no commendation. Wilfully and
deliberately to encounter extreme peril, with the full
knowledge that it is needless, is the part of a fool_not of
a hero. Whatever may be George Stephenson's claim to
be regarded as the latter, he certainly had nothing in
common with the former. The important experiment,
which has been so greatly misrepresented, was made
on a certain insulated quantity of gas, and under cir
cumstances that precluded the possibility of serious
disaster. Mr. Nicholas Wood, the well-known writer

on Railroads, at that time the `viewer' of the colliery,
assisted at that trial, and says, ` the box, or cabin, in
which the lamp was tried was not of such dimensions as

would, if an explosion had taken place, have produced

the effect described ; as only a small quantity of gas was

    1  .. t.. .t.t. .i  .F

1816.]  THE SAFETY-LAMP CONTROVERSY.           39

required, and we had had sufiicient experience not to

employ more gas than was necessary: at most, an ex

plosion might have burnt the hands of the operator, but

would not extend a few feet from the blower.'

To George Stephenson one of the best consequences of

his invention was the quarrel which it provoked between

his friends and the supporters of Sir Humphry Davy. The

coal-owners of the district formed themselves into two

parties. A newspaper war was waged, in which the ad

vocates of Stephenson were altogether victorious. The
partizans of Sir Humphry gave him as a reward for his

invention £2,000, awarding to George Stephenson 100

guineas for the lamp they professed to regard as a clumsy

contrivance, if not an imitation. This award was officially

communicated to George Stephenson by his dogged, but

honest, opponent, Mr. Buddle.                  of Sir
   To -make head against this demonstration

Humphry's friends, George's supporters got up another

testimonial, amounting to £1,000. A part of this sum was

expended on a silver tankard* which, together with the

balance of the money, was presented to the inventor of
` the Geordie,' after a public dinner given at the Assembly

Rooms at Newcastle. The chair was taken by George's

    " The tankard was inscribed        the preservation of human life in
                                       situations formerly of the greatest
---`This piece of plate, purchased     danger, was presented to him at a
with a part of the sum of £1,000, a    General Meeting of the Subscribers,
                                       Charles John Brandling, Esq., in
subscription raised for the remune
ration of Mr. George Stephenson for    the chair, January 12, 1818.' Among
                                       the numerous pieces of `presentation
having discovered the fact, that in    plate ' on Robert Stephenson's side
flamed fire-damp will notpass through  board in after days, THE TANKARD
tubes and apertures of small dimen
                                       was always the most prized.
sions, and having been the first to
apply that principle in the construc

tion of a safety-lamp, calculated for

40  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.        [C}I. III.

hearty patron, Mr. Brandling, of Gosforth Hall; and of

course George, as the distinguished guest of the night,

had to return thanks for the honour done him. In his

palmiest days George Stephenson was not an orator,

although when he spoke on subjects which he tho

roughly comprehended he expressed himself in a plain,

sensible, and terse manner, which carried conviction of

his sincerity and of the truthfulness of his narration.

    Sorely did he stand in need of eloquence when he

stood up in the Newcastle Assembly Rooms, and ad

dressed a company of wealthy merchants and enlight
ened gentlemen. His speech he had learnt by heart,

having composed it and written it out with great care.

Fortunately, this interesting document, which ought to

be committed to the custody of the Newcastle Literary

and Philosophical Institution, has been preserved, and a

fac-simile is given in the Appendix.  The speech ran

thus : --

    Sir,--In Receiving this valuable present which you and the

Gentleman of this Meeting has bean pleas'd to present me

Iwith this day except with Gratitude But permit me to say
I Ivaluable as this present is and gratefull as feal for it still

feal more by being honour'd by such and highley respectable

meeting the Gentlemen of which having not only rewarded me

beyond any hopes of mine for my endeavours in construting a

safity Lamp but has supported me in my claims as to priority in
Imy invention to that of that distinguished Pholosipher S H
Davy. For when  conseder the manner that 1 have been

Ibrought up and liv'd the manner of which is known to many of

the Gentleman present and when consider the high station of
S H. Davy his high Character that he holds among society

and his influence on scientific men and scientific bodys. all of
which Sir lays me under a Debt of Gratitude to the Gentlemen

of this meeting which Gratitude shall remain with me so long

1818.]              GEORGE STEPHENSON'S ORATORY.                                        41

I Ias ever shall live.                shall conclude, sir, with my heart felt

thanks to the Gentlemen of this meeting for their great reward

Ithare support in my struggle with my competitor and hear
Ibeg leave to thank in particular R Brandling, Esqr. which

trust the Gentleman of this meeting will give me Credit for. for

I beleive this meeting knows well the active part he has taken in
Imy behalf And hear do thank him publicly for it.`

   Keeping close to the letter of this programme, he
acquitted himself creditably, but at a family gathering
where the great event of the dinner was discussed in all

its bearings, he confessed that his embarrassment whilst

he delivered the oration was so great, that his face seemed
to him ` all on fire.' ` Oh, Grace,' he said to his sister

in-law Grace Henderson, who had become the wife of

Bartholomew Twizell, `if thou could but ha' seen ma

meeting so many gentlemen at the 'Sembly Rooms, thou

maught ha' lit a canle at ma face.' On this, Jane, another

married sister-in-law, laughed, and made a joke at his
rise in life. `Noo thou be for having bra' rufile
                                      'll

                                                                         a
                                                                                      `
                                                                                         'll a'
                  to th' shirt, and then thou 'll. be looking doon on

                  th' ow11 frien's.'  -

                  No, Jane,' he answered slowly and      seriously,              thou
is is
    `             nivar see no change in ma.'

                 a   * It has been thought right to      matically nor spell correctly, but

                  retain the faults of orthography and   had to rely on his secretary. VVhilst
                  grammar to be found in this and
                  other of George Stephenson's writ      he was braking the ballast engine at

                  ings incorporated in this work. It     `Willington Quay, he borrowed
                                                         a
                     desirable that everything relating              0'
                  to such man should be known, his
                                                                                         a
                  weakness as well as his strength. It
                                                                             I
                      a fact to be pondered over, that                                                                   a
                  with his powerful intellect and re     grammar of Mr. John Dobson, still
                  solute will, George Stephenson to
                  the last could neither write gram      distinguished architect at New

                                                         castle. He could not, however, master

                                                         `Iits secrets, and in few days brought
                                                         the book back, saying,  oonder--

                                                         stond tha v0w'ls, but canna gat

                                                         hold tha verbs.'

42  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL III.

   At the narration of this story nearly three years since,
more than one of George's humble kin who were present

bore testimony that ` he never did change--he was always

the same--riches made no difierence in him towards his

poor relations.'
   Whilst George Stephenson steadily progressed in his

professional career, his son continued his attendance at

Bruce's school. He did not figure conspicuously in the

Percy Street play-ground, but at home he displayed no

less physical than mental energy. Every evening his
father kept him hard at work over the tasks set him

at school, and over plans of steam-engines and other

mechanical contrivances. The neighbours sometimes
thought George was an ` o'er strict father,' and pitied the
poor boy who was kept so close to his books. Robert,

however, had leisure for amusement. Every autumn he

and his friends stripped of fruit the best trees in Captain

Robson's orchard. Like his father, too, the boy excelled

in athletic sports, throwing the hammer and putting the

stone with skill and force.  .

   In throwing the hammer-- a favourite sport with
Northumbrian workmen-_the thrower stands with his legs

wide apart, when, putting his arms behind his back, and

grasping the hammer by the handle with both hands, he
casts it forwards between his legs. Apart from the mus
cular force employed, the knack greatly consists in let

ting the hammer go at the right moment. Relinquished

too soon, the missile strikes the ground close at the

player's feet; retained after the proper moment, it is apt
to rise up into the thrower's face. In his sixteenth year,
Robert was engaged at this pastime, and made the mis

take of keeping the hammer too long in hand. The

1816.]  SCHOOL-LIFE AND EDUCATION.  43

consequence was that the ponderous implement, weighing
a little under 28 lb., rose, struck him on the forehead,
and laid him flat and perfectly stunned upon the ground.
John Tate witnessed the accident; but on the following
day he saw Robert throwing the hammer with as much
resolution as ever.

    Robert's schoolfellows at the Percy Street academy
failed to detect in him any remarkable signs of talent,
and some of them still express their astonishment at
his subsequent scientific acquirements and professional
achievements.

    Before leaving Robert Stephenson's school-life, we
may remark, that his father's experiences and difficulties
were the measure of what he thought requisite for the
instruction of his son. The subtler influence of letters

and the more valuable results of culture were matters

about which George Stephenson thought little. Learn
ing he regarded in a strictly utilitarian sense, as an
engine necessary for the achievement of certain ends.
His ambition was to be a skilful engineer, and a per
fect man of business; and in his efforts to achieve

this ambition he found two perplexing obstacles in his
ignorance of mathematics and his inability to write
with facility, or logical exactness. What he desired to
be himself, that he also wished his son to be. Robert
Stephenson should be a11 engineer and a director of
labour; but he should not have his bravest exertions

baffled by defective knowledge. In this spirit George

caused his son to learn French, because it would be
useful to him in business.

   Up to the time when he left Bruce's school, Robert
did not exhibit any marked enthusiasm for the pursuits

44  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL III.

in which his father was most warmly interested. Possibly

George Stephenson was too urgent that he should pro
secute the study of mechanics, and by continually goading
him to work harder and harder ` at his buiks ' gave him
a transient distaste for subjects to which he was naturally
inclined. As a member of the Philosophical and Literary
Society of Newcastle, Robert brought home standard
popular works and encyclopaedic volumes treating of
natural science and of inventions. These books his

father read and compelled him to read; but the labour

went very much against the boy's grain.
    The earliest ` drawing ' by Robert Stephenson's hand

of which there is any record, was that of a sun-dial,

copied from Ferguson's `Astronomy,' and presented by
the lad to Mr. Losh, in the year 1816, in token of his
gratitude to him as his father's benefactor. This drawing
set the father and son on another work---the construction

of a real sun-dial, which, on its completion, was fixed over
George's cottage door, where it still remains, bearing the
date, ` August 11th, MDCCCXVI.'

   A good story is told of `the hempy boy,' who dearly

loved mischief. From the meadow before the West

Moor cabin he sent up his enormous kite, reined in by
copper wire instead of string, the copper wire being in
sulated by a piece of silk cord. Anthony Wigha1n's cow,
peacefully grazing in the meadow, was first favoured with a
smart dose of electricity, one end of the copper wire being
brought down to the top of the ani1nal's tail. Standing
at his cottage window, George Stephenson watched the
discomfiture of his neighbour's cow in high glee; but
when the operator, ignorant whose eyes were upon him,
relinquished the torture of the `coo,' and proceeded to

1816.]  PLAY AND MISCHIEF.  45

give his father's pony a fillip with the subtle fluid, George

rushed out from his cottage with upraised whip, exclaim

ing, ` Ah! thou mischeevous scoondre1--aal paa thee.'
It is needless to say that Robert Stephenson did not wait

to ` be paid.'

46            LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                         [OIL IV.

                     CHAPTER IV.

              ROBERT STEPHENSON, THE APPRENTICE.

                                                (zarar. 15-20.)

    Robert Stephenson leaves School--~He is apprenticed to Mr. Nicholas

    Wood-George Stephenson lays down the Hetton Colliery Railway

    Father and Son--Robert's Economy in his personal Expenses --The
    ` Three Tuns'--The Circumferentor--George Stephenson's increasing
                              1\Iarriage --                   ` Friar's Goose
    Prosperity--His  Second  embarks in a    He builds the    Speculation--
    Pumping Engine'                           small Colliery
                     -- He
    The Locomotive Boiler Tubes of the Messrs. James -- Explosion in

    the Killingworth Mine-- George Stephenson's First Visit to Mr.
    Edward Pease -- Robert Stephenson and his Father survey the
    Stockton and Darlington Line -- Robert Stephenson's First Visit
    to London-- His delicate State of Health-- Survey for the Second
    Stockton and Darlington Act--Robert Stephenson goes to Edin
    burgh---Professor Leslie's Testimonial--Letters written at Edin

    Jburgh by Robert Stephenson to Mr. Longridge -Robert Stephenson

    accompanies Professor amieson on a Geological Excursion--George

    Stephenson's Letter to his friend Locke--Robert Stephenson and
    his Father visit Ireland--Robert Stephenson's Letters from that

    Country.

LEAVING school inthe year 1819--the year in which
        his father commenced the construction of his first
line of railway, the Hetton Colliery line--Robert Ste
phenson entered on his duties as apprentice to M--r.
Nicholas Wood, the mining engineer, who was at that
time the viewer of the Killingworth and other adjacent
collieries. During his apprenticeship, he had therefore
to concern himself with the internal working of the

1819.]  HABITS OF ECONOMY.                    47

mines to which his father was engine-wright.  The

father and son now came closer together, and strength

ened the firm league of confidence and affection which

bound them throughout life. There was between them

far less difference of age than usually exists between

father and son, George Stephenson being only twenty-two
years his boy's senior. When Robert Stephenson was a
young man, his father was still only at the entrance of
middle life; indeed, the latter was, in some respects, a
young man even to the last, anxious- for fresh know
ledge, capable after a struggle of relinquishing old errors,

and moreover endowed with high animal spirits.
   Robert Stephenson was apprenticed to Mr. Nicholas

Wood for three years, and during his apprenticeship he

manifested that quiet resolution and genuine modesty
which characterised him even when he became the

leader of his profession. He worked very hard, and
lived with careful economy. George Stephenson saw
clearly that the only chance he had of reaping a rich
harvest from his own and his son's intellects, lay in saving
and putting by out of his yearly earnings, until he
should be in a pecuniary position to embark in business
as a manufacturer as well as an operative engineer. He
knew well that the inventor without capital makes others

rich, whilst he himself starves and is neglected. His
great object, therefore, was to accumulate funds in order
that he might enter into business as a- manufacturing

engineer.

   At this period of his life Robert never spent a penny on

any article whatever, until he had put to himself Sydney

I ISmith's three questions--Is it worth the money? Do
  want it? Oan do without it? Once every fortnight

48  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON. -                [OIL IV.

Mr. Wood, as head viewer, used to descend the Killing

worth mine in discharge of his regular duties. The
hour at which he `left bank' was nine o'clock, punc

tual to the minute, and Robert always accompanied his

master. At mid-day, when the morning's work was

over, Robert and the under viewer, hot and fatigued,

used to enter the ` Three Tuns'_a small, thatched,

three-roorned beer-house, long since pulled down--and
take refreshment. When herrings were in season, the

ordinary repast of each was `a herring, a penny roll,

and a glass of small beer.'  Young  i           serving

                                    gentlemen,

their pupilage under distinguished engineers, would some

times do well to think of Robert Stephenson's two-penny

halfpenny meals.

   About two years before Robert Stephenson's death, a

workman of Washington village found in a collection of

old stores a circumferentor, or mining compass. It was

unusually large--even for a circumferentor made forty

years since. The brass stand and measuring-plate had long
been obscured by corrosion ; and it was not till the latter
had been well scoured and polished that it revealed the
inscription, ` Robert Stephenson fecit.' The workman, on

reading these words, brought the instrument to the works
of Robert Stephenson and Oo., Newcastle, and left it with
Robert Stephenson's friend and partner--the late Mr.

Weallens. At his next visit to Newcastle, Mr. Stephenson's

attention was directed to the instrument, when at the sight

of his long-forgotten work, he exclaimed with emotion,

` Ah, that circumferentor was measured off at Watson's
I IWorks, in the High Bridge?"
                             made it when was

    "' i. e. the High Bridge of Newcastle.

1819.] GEORGE STEPHENSON'S SECOND MARRIAGE.  49

I Iquite a lad_when was Wood's apprentice--when had

but little money, and could not afford to buy one.'
   Whilst Robert Stephenson was serving his apprentice

ship, events were being crowded into his father's life. In

1819, George Stephenson began to lay down the Hetton
Colliery Railway, which was finished in 1822. He could
now afford to indulge in romance. Elizabeth Hind

marsh, his first love, was still unmarried. When her

father drove the young brakesman from his door, she had

vowed never to have another husband, and that vow she

kept. The time was now come for her constancy to be
rewarded. The poor brakesman had made himself ` a

man of mark,' and- a more important matter still in the

estimation of some of his canny north-country friends
had made himself a ` man of substance.' ` The grand

allies,' in their conduct towards their agent, showed a

liberality becoming their rank, wealth, and name. In the

same way that, years before, they had given him two out
of every six working days, allowing him to devote them

to the service of Messrs. Losh, Wilson, and Bell, so they

now also permitted him to act as engineer to the Hetton
Coal Company, for the construction of the Hetton Rail
way, without making any diminution in his salary. Thus
during the three years in which he was laying down the

Hetton line, George Stephenson had three concurrent

appointments. His savings were by this time consider

able, and were invested at good interest and on good

security. Mortgage on land at five per cent. interest

was at that time George's notion of a sufiiciently profit

able and safe investment, and on such terms he had

for some years lent £1,300 to a gentleman in the neigh
bourhood of Darlington. So George Stephenson (no

voL. I.  E

50  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.            [CIL IV.

longer a poor brakesman) again paid his addresses to
the woman whose love he had won twenty years before ;
and he married her in the same church where he had

wedded his `old maid ' bride, Fanny Henderson. The
ceremony took place inthe parish church of Newburn on
March 29, 1820, the bridegroom's son, Robert, being one
of the attesting witnesses.*

    As soon as the wedding festivities were at an end,

George Stephenson went back to his work and his cottage

at Killingworth. Still pursuing his prudent course, he
made no difference in his plan of life; nor, to her
lasting honour be it said, did Mrs. Stephenson wish
him in any respect to alter it. Never did woman more
cordially devote herself to the interests of her hus

band and husband's child. Entering the Killingworth
cottage, which `Aunt Eleanor ' had left to marry an

honest and well-reputed workman; she gave a beauty
and completeness to her husband's life which it had
previously wanted. Of this excellent lady mention will

be made in subsequent pages. Possibly his step-mother's
tastes turned Robert Stephenson's attention to music.
He purchased a flute, and acquired so much profi

ciency on the instrument, that he was permitted to act
as flutist in a band, which, instead of an organ, took
part in the religious services of Long Benton Church.

* Copy of the record of George            year One thousand eight hundred

Stephenson's second marriage, in          and twenty,
the Newburn Register : --
                                                   `By me, J. Edmonson, vicar.
   `George Stephenson, of the parish      ` In presence of --
of Long Benton, widower, and E1iza-
                                              ` Thomas Hindmarsh.
beth Hindmarsh, of this parish, spin-         ` Robert Stephenson.
ster, were married in this church by      . ` George Stephenson.

license, with consent of            this                     ` Elizabeth Hindmarsh.'

twenty-ninth day of l\"[arch,  iri  the

1820.]  THE FRIAR'S GOOSE PUMPING ENGINE.  51

   At the same time that George Stephenson was laying

down the last rails of the Hetton Colliery Railway, he was
busy in constructing for Messrs. Losh, Wilson, and Bell, a
pumping engine, of hitherto unusual dimensions, known
as the Friar's Goose Pumping Engine,"" which aided in
` the winning ' of the famous Woodside coals. The

opening of this mine commenced in 1820, and the first
cargo of coals was shipped November 21st, 1824. The
cost of winning was about £22,354; and George
Stephenson's engine, which speedily became famous
throughout the Northumbrian coal district, commenced

pumping in July 1823. The increase of reputation

which the engineer gained by this achievement was of
great service to him. He had also another important

undertaking on his hands. In conjunction with Thomas
Mason, he took a lease of the Willow Bridge colliery

for twenty-one years, the two partners embarking in
the undertaking £700 in equal shares. The deed of

partnersliip was signed December 5th, 1820.
    Another incident of importance marks this period of

George Stephenson's career. Anxious to improve the
locomotive engines, for which he and Mr. Losh had taken

out letters patent, George and his copatentee resolved to
introduce into their boilers the tubes recommended by

    " The following particulars con      the main beam, and one to inside, by
cerning the ` F1'iar's Goose Pumping     diagonal spear to quadrant in pit,
                                         about 7 fathoms down from surface.
Engine,' furnished by Mr. Losh, are      Three sets of pumps in bottom, each
valuable : --                            set IGQ.I inches diameter, and length
                                         of sets about 50 fathoms. Average
   `Friar's Goose Pumping Engine.        quantity of water per minute, 1,000
Commenced pumping in July, 1823.
                                         gallons.
Diameter of cylinder 72$ inches;             ` Tyne Main Colliery, Aug. 29,
length of stroke, ditto, 9feet; length
                                         1860.'
of pit, ditto, 7 feet2 inches. Two sets
of pumps attached to the out end of

        1:2

52  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL IV.

Messrs. William James and William Henry James, giving
those gentlemen a share in their patent rights in return
for the permission granted them ` to adopt any improve
ments, and the introduction of tubes to their boilers, as

contained in the letters patent of William Henry James,
son of the said William James, as granted to him in the
reign of his present Majesty.' The agreement between
William Losh and George Stephenson on the one part,
and the Messrs. James on the other, bears date September 1,

1821. These tubes must not, however, be confounded

with the multitubular boiler, which ultimately decided
the triumph of the locomotive. Almost countless un

successful experiments were made, before Mr. Henry
Booth (with the concurrence of the Stephensons) pro
duced his beautiful arrangement. The agreement of
September 1st, 1821, is of interest, as it gives a date
when George Stephenson was intent on increasing the
heating surface of his boilers by the introduction of
tubes, and also preserves the reputation of two other

inventors, whose services to the locomotive ought not

to be forgotten, although they have been exaggerated

by indiscreet friends.
    Robert Stephenson's work during his apprenticeship

was not only hard but hazardous. On one occasion
when he was accompanying his master, Mr. Nicholas
Wood, and Mr. Moodie, the under-viewer, through the
passages of the Killingworth mine, by the aid of ` the
Geordie's ' dim ray, they grew impatient of the darkness,
and lighted a candle. The spot was more foul than
the viewer supposed, and an explosion instantly ensued.
Mr. Wood was picked up from the ground bruised,
bleeding, and stunned. Robert Stephenson and Mr.

1821.] THE STOCKTON AND DARLINGTON RAILWAY.  -53

 Moodie escaped unhurt; but the alarm of such an
 escape strongly impressed the former with the value of

 his father's invention.

     The lad's apprenticeship had not expired, when he
 made trial of a safer, but not less laborious, occupa
tion. On April 19, 1821, the same day on which the
royal assent was given to the first Stockton and Darling
ton Railway Act, George Stephenson went over to -Dar
 lington, accompanied by Mr. Nicholas Wood, for the
purpose of soliciting Mr. Edward Pease, the chief pro
jector of the new line, to secure for him the job of

making the railroad.

    In consequence of this interview with Mr. Pease,

George Stephenson was employed by the Stockton and
Darlington Oompany to make a careful survey of the
route, for which the Act had been obtained. This survey
was made in the autumn of 1821, and certain modifica

tions and changes of the line were proposed by the
engineer. To carry out these proposals, a new Act (the
second Stockton and Darlington Railway Bill) was, after
renewed opposition, obtained in 1823; and George
Stephenson was forthwith instructed to form the line in
accordance with the new Act, receiving for his salary as

the Oompany's engineer-in-chief £300 per armum. In

making the survey of 1821, Robert Stephenson, their
just eighteen years of age, accompanied and assisted his

father.

   Before entering on the survey, Robert Stephenson made
a trip to London. Easy and secure in his circumstances,

his father gave him a purse of money and a holiday. It

was the first time in his life that he had been more than

a day's journey from Killingworth, and the prospect of

54  LEE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL IV

visiting the capital greatly excited him. Having reached
London, the tall slight boy, still dressed in ill-fitting coarse
garments made by the pitmen's tailor, hastened from place
to place. The journal still exists in which he began to
take notes of all he saw. Before he had been in town

many days the diary was discontinued ; but enough was
written to show that he was still unable to spell correctly.
He went to St. Paul's, the Custom House, the London
Water Works, ` Sommersite ' House, and to an exhibition

of a model of an Egyptian tomb sent home by Belzoni.
    The visit to London was a short one ; and when it was

 over, Robert Stephenson returned to Killingworth to
resume his work in the coal-mines. But by this time he
 had found the labour of a viewer exhausting as well as
 perilous. His lungs were weak and manifested symptoms
 of tubercular disease. He welcomed, therefore, the change

 to a more healthful occupation now offered to him, and
 in the early autumn assisted his father and Mr. John

 Dixon in making the survey for the second Stockton and
 Darlington Railway Act. He heartily enjoyed the work.
 Spending the entire day in the clear balmy air, eating
 frugal meals of ` bread, butter, milk, and potatoes ' under
 sheltering hedgerows, and lodging by night in roadside

 inns, George Stephenson and his assistants made holiday
                                                                                                                                           i

  of their toil.

     Mr. Joseph Pease of Darlington, then a young man,

  was a frequent attendant on the party, and remembers
  well the animation with which George and Robert
  Stephenson conversed at the top of their voices, in a

  scarcely intelligible Northumbrian brogue, on the diffi

  culties of their undertaking. The ` slight, spare, bronzed
  boy,' as Mr. Pease recalls the Robert Stephenson of 1821,

1821.]          CHANGE OF OCCUPATION.      55

often supported his arguments with a respectful mention

of Mr. Bruce's opinions ; and to the authority of the

worthy schoolmaster, George Stephenson invariably paid

marked, and almost superstitious, homage.

When the survey was completed, and the map was

plotted, Robert Stephenson's name was put upon it as ` the

engineer,' and no mention was made of his father. This

was done at George's particular direction; and a more
affecting instance of paternal devotion it would be difficult

to imagine.  .

In consequence of being thus designated engineer,

Robert Stephenson had to make a second visit to London,
and this time not for the purpose of inspecting the Tower

and St. Paul's Cathedral, but that he might be examined

by a parliamentary committee on an affair of great com

mercial importance.
   Before making his first public appearance as engineer of

the Stockton and Darlington Railway, Robert Stephenson

resided for a few months in the university of Edinburgh.
Several gentlemen who came in contact with him during

the survey for the line had been so struck with his natural
force of intellect that they represented to his father the

propriety, and indeed the imperative duty, of giving him

a college education. George Stephenson could, as far as

money went, have well afforded to send him to Cambridge,
but it was not his wish to ` make his son a gentleman.'

Such were his own words. `Robert must wark, wark,

Ias hae warked afore him,' the father used to say.

Finding, however, that his son could reside at Edinburgh,

and attend the classes for a comparatively small sum,

he allowed him to go to that university for one term,

a space of time that was, in all, something less than six

56  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL IV

months. This permission was accorded in the October              E
of the year 1822, and forthwith Robert Stephenson                `lJ
started for the Scotch capital. As the date of his
residence in Edinburgh has been misstated, so also has           1
the importance of it been exaggerated. To call it                I
by the imposing title of a ` university education ' would        l
be to mislead the reader. Brilliant as the assembly
of professors in Edinburgh then was, the educational

system of the university was faulty, and the students

were allowed to pursue their own courses, without disci

pline, and in some cases without encouragement. Robert
Stephenson certainly worked hard whilst he was at
Edinburgh, but his stay there was too short for efficient

study. He was, however, resolute in his attendance at
lectures, and he even declined to enjoy for an hour the
society of Mr. Joseph Pease (who paid him a flying visit)
in order that he might be present at the address of the

JProfessor of Natural Philosophy.
    After the term he accompanied amieson on a geological
excursion. The students who were permitted to attend

the Professor on suchitrips walked with knapsacks on their
backs, and led the same sort of wild vagrant life which

Robert had more than a year before enjoyed during
the railway survey. To the last he retained a lively
recollection of this expedition; and as late as 1857, on
passing in his yacht an imposing headland of the northern

Jcoast, he told his friends that, ` as a student on a tour with

Professor amieson, a quarter of a century before, he had
examined the structure of the cliffs.' ` The Professor,' he
added, ` on such occasions mounted a hillock and de

scribed the geological formation of the surrounding rocks,
illustrating his lecture by reference to the face of nature

1822.]  HIS STUDIES AT EDINBURGH.                                     57

Ias his black-board, while we lads stood round the' gooda is,
                    a
old man with a pleasure which can never forget.'
                                        it a
   It has been erroneously stated that Robert Stephenson          it

bore off at Edinburgh ` most of the prizes of the year.'
The fact that he did not gain single university prize,
in the sense in which an university man would use the term.

    Professor Leslie, however, was in the habit of present
ing periodically book to the student attending his class
with whom he was most pleased. According to the
character of the pupil to whom was presented, was
sometimes tribute to moral worth as well as scientific

attainments. In the case of Robert Stephenson, the Pro
fessor's testimonial was awarded in recognition of the

ability displayed by the pupil in answering certain ma
thematical questions in the regular weekly examination

papers.
    The following letters written by Robert Stephenson to

his early friend and adviser, Mr. Michael Longridge, during
his brief stay at Edinburgh, will give the reader an insight
into his life in the university. The first of the three was
written soon after his arrival in the capital of Scotland,
and whilst he was making first acquaintance with the

Professors.
I
                    IEdinbro': Nov. 20, 1822.

                                                       a
                                                                                 a

                                                  I
                                                            I
SIR,--Not having received the books, as you intimated,
Ifbegin to be apprehensive of their safety.
                                               you have not

sent them off yet, hope you will not be long.  met with

very kind reception from Mr. Bald, who introduced me to

Dr. Brewster, Professor Jameson, and some other professional

gentlemen. He gave me two tickets, one for the Wernerian

Society, and one for the Royal Society, and desired me par

ticularly to call and have any book out of his library that

might want. Mr. Jameson seems to be very intelligent man,

58  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                         [C11 IV.

I Iand think him and will soon be friends. My father would

likely"inform you of my intercourse with Dr. Hope. He

seemed much interested about the lamps, and desired me to

Igive him every information relative to them.
                                              remain, Sir, yours sincerely,

                                         R. Srnrnnnsou.

M. Longridge, Esq.

   The tone of the next letter, penned a fortnight after
the preceding epistle, is less cheerful.

 JS1R,--I would have sent my Lectures ere now had they

contained anything new. Mr. ameson's Lectures have hitherto

I I Ibeen confined chiefly to Zoology, a part of Natural History

which cannot say am enraptured with; nor can infer from

many of his Lectures any ultimate benefit, unless to satisfy the

Icuriosity of man. Natural historians spend a great deal of time

in enquiring whether Adam was a black or white man. Now

really cannot see what better we should be, if we could even

determine this with satisfaction; but our limited knowledge
will always place this question in the shade of darkness. The

Professor puzzles me sadly with his Latin appellations of the

various divisions, species, genera, &c., of the animal kingdom.

He lectures two days a week on Meteorology and three on

IZoology. This makes the course very unconnected.
       have taken notes on Natural Philosophy, but have not

written them out, as there has been nothing but the simplest
I Iparts, and which was perfectly acquainted with. Therefore
I Ithought might spend my time better in reading.
                                                   shall send

you them when he comes to the most difficult parts. Leslie

Iintends giving a Lecture on Saturdays to those who wish to
pursue the most abstruse parts of Natural Philosophy.                        have

Iput my name down for one of those: he gives questions out
every Friday to answer on the Saturday.  have been highly

Idelighted with Dr. Hope's Lectures. He is so plain and familiar
in all his elucidations.  have received the books all safe.

   The next letter, written in the April of 1823, marks
the time when the writer's brief stay at the university
was brought to a close, and also indicates with exact

1823.]        HIS STUDIES AT EDINBURGH.             58

ness the subjects to which he directed his attention
during the period.

                  Edinburgh: April 11, 1s2s.

   SIR,--I wrote home on the 5th, but from yours it appears
my father would he set off for London before the arrival of my

I Iletter, in which desired him to send me a bill for £26.
Ishould feel obliged if you will send me it at your first con

venience, as am rather in want of it at present.
    The Natural History finishes next Tuesday. The Natural

Philosophy on Friday the 18th. Chemistry finishes on the 27th

or 28th.

  I have been fortunate in winning a prize in the Natural

Philosophy class, for some mathematical questions given by

IProfessor Leslie relative to various branches of Natural Philo
sophy.            remain, Sir,

                  Yours very sincerely,

                  Ros. Srnrnnsson.

Mich. Longridge,

   The following letter, written by George Stephenson to
his friend William Locke, during his son's brief sojourn
at Edinburgh, will be read with interest :--

                                                                                       March 31, 1823.

IDEAR SIR,--From the great elapse of time since seed

you, you will hardley know that such a man is in the land of
Ithe living.
              fully expected to have seen you about two years
Iago, as passed throw Barnsley on my way to south Wales but
I Ibeing informed you was not at home did not call
                                                    expect to

Ibe in London in the course of a fortnight or three weaks, when
   shall do my self the pleasure of calling, either in going or
coming. This will be handed to you by Mr. Wilson a friend of

mine who is by profeshion an Atorney at law and intends to

settle in your neighbourhood. you will greatley oblidge me by

Ithroughing any Business in his way you conveniently can

think you will find him an active man in his profeshion. There

has been many upes and,downs in this neighbourhood since you

left you would no doubt have heard that Charles Nixon was

             LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                             [GIL IV.
II
       I50throughing out at Walbottle Collery by his partners some years

    a IIago he has little to depend on now but the profets of the ballast
           II
machine at Willington Quey wich darsay verey small many
                             a          I
                                   is      I

                    I                                     is
of his Familey has turned out verey badley he has been verey

unfortunate in Famaley affairs. If, have the pleasure of

seeing you shall give you a long list of occurences since you

and worked together at Newburn. Hawthorn still at Wal
                                                              a is
battle darsay you will well remember he was great enamy

to me but much more so after you left. left Walbattle ColleryI
soon also after you and has been verey prosperous in my

concerns ever since                     am now far above Hawthorn's reach.

am now concerned as Civil Engineer in different parts of the

Kingdom.     have onley one son who have brought up in my
                                        is
                                                                 have had him
                                           I
own profeshion he now near 20 years of age                    I

educated in the first Schools and now at Colledge in Edinbro'

have found great want of education myself but fortune has

made mends for that want.

                                        I  am dear sir yours truly

                                              GEO. Srnrnnusou.

Killingworth Collery.

`   George had, indeed, raised himself thus early to be
  concerned as civil engineer in different parts of the
                          akingdom.' With salary of £300 from the Stockton
                                     aand Darlington Railway, with rapidly' increasing busi
ness, and with important accumulations, he found himself,
in 1823, made man. He could therefore well afford toa
defray the expenses of his son's visit to the university of
          a
Edinburgh.
   Of that visit perhaps the most important result was

the commencement of Robert Stephenson's friendship
with Mr. George Parker Bidder, late President of the
Institution of Civil Engineers. Mr. Bidder, who had
already been for two years studying at the university,
was immediately attracted to Robert Stephenson by the
mildness of his disposition, and at the same time by his

plain common-sense intellect. During the university term

1823.]  JOURNEY TO IRELAND.                                 61

they were nearly inseparable, as in after life they fought
their parliamentary battles side by side. To the close of
his life Robert Stephenson's happiest days were spent in
his friend Bidder's family circle.

   With Robert Stephenson's return from Edinburgh to
Killingworth, the period of his West Moor life may be
regarded as closed. On receiving his formal appointment

as engineer to the Stockton and Darlington line, George
Stephenson left Long Benton, and Robert accompanied
his father as assistant in the new undertaking.

   The construction of the Stockton and Darlington line

did not preclude George Stephenson and his son from
making long journeys to various parts of the United

Kingdom in the discharge of professional duties. In the
September of 1823 they went to Ireland, from which

country Robert wrote with his accustomed energy and
confidence to Mr. Longridge.

                                ~  Dublin: Sept. 10, 1823.
        '

DEAR SIR, --We have just arrived at Paddy's Land `in far

Dublin city.' We left London on Monday, at half-past one

o'clock, travelled all night, and reached Bristol the next morning,

and expected to have got the steam packet to Cork, but we

were disappointed on being informed that the Cork packet had

broken her machinery a few days before, and was laid up for

repair. We were therefore obliged to come on to Dublin,

upwards of two hundred miles out of our way. We leave here
this evening in the mail, and shall arrive at Cork to-morrow

evening, where we shall probably remain a few days, and then

make the best of our way into Shropshire. The concern we are

going to at Cork was set fire to by the mob, where the disturb

ance has been for some time. We expect to reach home in the

course of a fortnight. When we were in London my father

called at Mr. Gordon's office, but found he had set off the pre

ceding evening to the North. My father desires to be remem

62            LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.            [OIL IV.

bered to him with his sincere respects. We hope by this time

we have got our fortunes made safe with the Lord of Carlisle's

agents. We have some hopes of some orders for steam engines

for South America, in the Columbian States. This, however,

depends on the success of Perh-£ns's new engine. My father
and he have had a severe scold. Indeed the most of the birkies

were embittered at my father's opinion of the engine. He one

day stopped the engine by his hand, and when we called the

next day Perkins had previously got the steam to such a pitch
(equal 15 atmosphere) that it was impossible for one man to

it
        it,

                      8
                            a
stop but by little of my assistance, we succeeded in stopping

    by laying hold of the fly-wheel. This engine he formerly

called an or 10 horse-power, but now only 4.        am con
                               I
vinced, as well as my father, that Perkins knows nothing about
                                   is
the principle of steam engines.
                                      II
                                                              aremain, dear Sir,
                                                 I
                                                                                  aYours sincerely,

                                           ROBERT Srnrnrmson.

    P.S.--You shall hear from us at Cork.

   The story of George Stephenson's practical criticism on
the merits of Perkins' engine well known.

    From Cork, Robert Stephenson wrote to Mr. Long

ridge.

                                           Cork: Sept. 16, 1823.

   DEAR SIR,-We left Dublin on the evening of the day we

wrote our last, for Cork, in the mail, and we were not little

alarmed, when stopped at the post office, to see four large
              a

                 it
cavalry pistols and two blunderbusses handed up to the guard,

who had also sword hung by his side.       can assure you, my

father's courage was daunted, though       don't suppose he will

confess with it. We proceeded on, however, without being in

the least disturbed, except, now and then having our feelings
excited by the driver, or some of our fellow-passengers, relating,

and at the same time pointing towards the situation, where some

most barbarous murder had recently been committed. In one

instance,  a  father, mother, and son had been murdered one

evening or two before. As we passed along, everywhere distress

1823.]     JOURNEY TO IRELAND.                   63

seemed to be the prevailing feature of the country, and this to

an incredible degree among the poor. Indeed, numbers of them

appeared literally starving. We frequently have read accounts

in the English newspapers of the distressed state of Ireland, but

how far they fall short of conveying a just idea of it. With

Iregard to the appearance of the cities Dublin and Cork, must
say the former falls far short of the description given of it by

some Irishman in the steam packet, as we came over from Eng
Iland.     asked some of them if it was equal to Edinburgh, and
Ithey seemed insulted at the comparison, but can now say

they ought to have felt highly honoured. Dublin excels cer

tainly in size and business, but as to scenery and beauty of

building, it shrinks into insignificance.

We were very kindly received at the Dripsey Paper Works by

Macnay's family, and have just finished our business with them

for the present, and intend leaving Cork in the steam packet this

day for Bristol. From there we shall make the best of our way

to Shifnal in Shropshire, and our business there will probably

detain us five or six days. A small boiler will be wanted to

Isend to Ireland. You will receive the order by George
Marshall, or some of our people, in a few days.  hope Mr.

Birkinshaw will see the plates nicely cut, as we want it neatly

finished.

   The most valuable part of Robert Stephenson's educa
tion was, however, yet to come.

64  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                      [OIL V.

                    CHAPTER V.

                    PREPARATIONS FOR AMERICA.

                    (ETAT. 20-21.)

    George Stephenson's Rupture with Mr. Losh--The Establishment of

    the Firm of R. Stephenson and Co. of Newcastle---The Colombian

    jMecint i--ngRAosbseorctiatSiotenp--henGseoonrge    Stephenson  a Chief Agent for the Pro
                                                                     renewed and aggravated
                                                      visited with
    Symptoms of Pulmonary Disease -- Robert Stephenson proposed as
    Engineer to the ` Colombian Mining Association ' -- His Visits to
    Cornwall and other Places -- Newcastle --The London Coffee

    House, Ludgate Hill --Robert Stephenson accepts the Post of

    Engineer-in-Chief to the Colombian Mining Association---In London
    -- Preparations and Hard Work--` Home, sweet Home ' --- Letter to
    ` the North ' --- Conduct of ` the Association ' -- Liverpool -- Sails for

    South America.

IN forming his new connection at Darlington, George

 l

       Stephenson made the acquaintance not only of Mr.
Pease, but also of Mr. Michael Longridge of the Bedling
ton Iron Works, and the influential associates of both those

gentlemen; and by his conduct towards them he gained
their respect and confidence. Unfortunately, however, in
acting honourably towards his new friends, he was com
pelled to give offence to an old patron. On being asked
what rails he would recommend to be laid down on the

IStockton and Darlington Railway, he frankly replied to

the directors-` Gentlemen, might put £500 into my
pocket by getting you to buy my patent cast-iron rails.

IBut know them. Take my advice, and don't lay down

1824.]           THE FACTORY AT NEWCASTLE.  65

a single cast-iron rail.' Of course it was his paramount

duty to give this advice to his employers, but his con

demnation of cast-iron rails, and recommendation of

malleable bars, not only kept £500 out of his own

pocket, but withheld the same sum from the purse of
his co-patentee and old employer, Mr. Losh. The latter,
not then believing in the relative inferiority of the cast

iron rails which he and George Stephenson had patented

in 1816, was naturally irritated, and imprudently wrote
a letter to Mr. Pease reflecting on George's conduct in
violent and unjust terms. .The contents of this epistle

were inconsiderately imparted by Mr. Pease to George

Stephenson; and the consequence was a stormy interview

between the latter and Mr. Losh, in which the capitalist

accused the engineer of ingratitude, and the engineer re
torted on the capitalist a charge of self-interest and

cupidity. The consequence of this was, that the rupture

between the elder Stephenson and Messrs. Losh, Wilson,
and Bell was final; and George attached himself to an

other interest.

Whilst he was superintending the construction of the

Stockton and Darlington Railway, George Stephenson

induced Mr. Edward Pease, Mr. Richardson, and Mr.

Longridge, to join him in establishing the `manufactory,'

now celebrated, wherever locomotive engines are used,

under the name of ` Robert Stephenson and Co.' It has

been already seen how he put Robert Stephenson's name

on the map as engineer of the Stockton and Darlington

line. In like manner, now that he was about to embark in

a great commercial speculation, he made his son the pro
minent engineer, as well as an actual partner, and was

voL. I.          F

66  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL V.

pleased to keep himself in the background. The partner
ship was formed in 1823, and forthwith the ground was
purchased on which the factory of `Robert Stephenson
and Co.' yet stands_an imposing and extensive mass
of building, visible to travellers through smoke and
fog, as the train bears them along the superior road
of the High Level Bridge. The originators of the
factory, interested deeply in the Stockton and Darling
ton Railway, were bent on supplying the new line with
the steam locomotives, which their influence would cause
to be adopted in preference to fixed engines. With
the commencement of 1824 the factory was at work.
George Stephenson, fully engaged with the Stockton and
Darlington line, thirty or forty miles distant from New

castle, could give but little personal care to the new
factory. Robert Stephenson was, therefore, called upon

to superintend its earliest operations. It was a trying

position for a young man, only twenty years of age. To
be so trusted was the grandest sort of education--but
it was an education fitted only for an able man. He

had to supervise the building operations, engage men,
take orders, advise on contracts, draw plans, make esti
mates, keep the accounts, and in all matters, great or
small, govern the young establishment on his own re

sponsibility.

    All this, however, was mere child's play compared with

his next task.

   A more fascinating scheme than that of the ` Colombian

 Mining Association ' had not for years roused the imagina
 tions of speculators. The proposal was to recommence
working in Spanish America the gold and silver mines,
which, it was averred, had been wrought with great profit

1824.]  THE COLOMBIAN MINING ASSOCIATION.  67

before the Revolution. The cautiously expressed opinion
of Humboldt, that such operations might lead to suc
cessful results, induced men of wealth and high reputation
in the money market to support the project with their
names and their gold. The first plan of the projectors
was departed from in important particulars; and when
the Company took form as a working power, its title
was the ` Colombian Mining Association,' and the at
tention of the directors was concentrated on the mineral
wealth of Colombia.

   Amongst the most sanguine projectors of this specu
lation was Mr. Thomas Richardson, the founder of the
famous discount house of Richardson, Overend, and

Gurney. Mr. Richardson was an intimate friend and
family connection of Mr. Pease of Darlington. He took
shares in the Stockton and Darlington Railway, and
became a partner in the firm of `Robert Stephenson
and Co., of Newcastle.' Frequently coming into contact
with George Stephenson, he admired his soundness of
judgement as much as he did his genius for mechanical
contrivance, and consequently consulted him on the ar
rangements of the `Colombian Mining Association.' Of
course, steam-engines and iron goods would be required
in abundance for effectually working the old mines ; and
Mr. Richardson calculated that his influence would obtain
large orders for the house of ` Robert Stephenson and
Co.' On George Stephenson, therefore, it eventually
devolved to select miners, artisans, inspectors, and im
plements, and to make heavy shipments of iron and
goods for America. Indeed, not only Mr. Richardson,
but the general body of directors, relied on George's

                                                                   I` 2

68  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C11. V.

guidance in all the engineering part of their preliminary

operations.
    Although the earlier commissions were sent to his father,

young Robert Stephenson had to attend to many of them ;
and he did the work in sucha manner that Mr. Richardson

formed a yet higher opinion of his energy and capacity.
Mr. Longridge, with whom George Stephenson had now,
for more than three years, been in communication, also
formed the highest estimate of Robert's abilities. Over
tures were then made through Mr. Richardson to Robert
Stephenson, sounding him whether he would like to ac
company the expedition. The proposal put the young
man in a fire of excitement. He was pining to get
away from Newcastle. The threatening symptoms of
pulmonary disease, which had from childhood made his
friends anxious for him, seemed decidedly on the in
crease; and in his secret heart he believed that the

harsh winds of Newcastle would, before many years,

lay him in a premature grave. In the warm luxurious
atmosphere of Colombia, surrounded by the gorgeous
beauties of animal and vegetable life, which had stirred

Humboldt from his philosophic calm, he anticipated
renewed vigour of mind and body. Moreover, the
dreams of wealth, which had fascinated apparently cau
tious and practical men like Mr. Richardson, seemed to
Robert Stephenson's young mind no visionary hopes,
but realities beyond the reach of doubt. He argued, not
unreasonably, the Spaniards, with imperfect appliances
and a rude knowledge of their art, extracted from those
mines vast revenues, and therefore greater wealth will
flow to labourers aided by the latest inventions of science,
and having a supply of skilled artisans.

824.]  JOURNEY INTO CORNWALL.  60

   It was true ` the works ' had been scarcely established

at Newcastle, and needed vigilant direction. But the
principal object for which they had been started --the
construction of locomotives--could not be attained until

there was a public demand for the commodity ; and even

to Robert Stephenson, not less sanguine than his father as
to the ultimate success of the locomotive, it seemed

highly improbable that the demand would be either

urgent or general for some years. At all events he

might with advantage to his health and prospects go

to South America for three years. George Stephenson

did not at all like the proposal. Not even the annual

salary of £500, with allowances for travelling expenses,

could lessen his disapproval.

   In the spring of 1824, Robert Stephenson, at the direc

tion of the Colombian Association, went on a trip to
Cornwall, accompanied by his uncle Robert (the father of
the present Mr. George Robert Stephenson), and made a
careful examination of the mining system of that country.

The result of this trip was an elaborate report by the
uncle and nephew on Cornish mining--its usages, im

plements, engines, and commercial organisation. Writing

to his father from Oakhampton, Devonshire, March 5,
1824, Robert Stephenson said :--

  IAs far as have proceeded on my journey to the Cornish
Imines, have every reason to think it will not be misspent

time; for when one is travelling about, something new gene
rally presents itself, and though it is perhaps not superior to
some scheme of our own for the same purpose, it seldom fails

Ito open a new channel of ideas, which may not unfrequently

prove advantageous in the end. This think is one of the
chief benefits of leaving the fireside where the young imagina
tion received its first impression.

70        LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.   [OIL V.

   In this same letter he speaks of having inspected the
Bristol steam-boats, and especially the `George IV.,' in

which he and his father had crossed from Ireland in

the previous year. He mentions also having been at

Swansea, where the engine for drawing coals, put up

by George Stephenson, was seen working admirably.
Speaking of the Neath Abbey Works, he observes :--

  I IWhen was at Neath Abbey had the pleasure of being

introduced to Mr. Brunton the engineer: he is a very sensible
man, but there is not one of them who understands the parallel

Imotion thoroughly. They seemed to doubt me when told
Ithem had never seen one mathematically true, not even in

principle.

   In the firm and self-reliant tone of this passage may be

seen the young man of twenty-one conscious of his power
to be a leader of others.

   Returning to Newcastle, Robert Stephenson found that
he could not settle down to his work. He wrote to his

father, begging him no longer to oppose his wish to go to

Colombia.

  IBut now (he wrote) let me beg of you not to say anything

against my going out to America, for have already ordered
Iso many instruments that it would make me look extremely

foolish to call off. Even if had not ordered any instruments,

Iit seems as if we were all working one against another. You

must recollect will only be away for a time; and in the mean

time you could manage with the assistance of Mr. Longridge,

who, together with John Nicholson, would take the whole of

Ithe business part off your hands. And only consider what an

opening it is for me as an entry into business; and am in

Iformed- by all who have been there that it is a very healthy
country.  must close this letter, expressing my hope that you

will not go against me for this time.

    Sorely against his will, George gave his consent; and

1824.] PREPARATIONS FOR THE VOYAGE TO AMERICA. 71

Robert Stephenson, once more going up to London, took
up his quarters (April 27, 1824) at the London Coffee
House, Ludgate Hill, and made his preparations for de

parture. It was a terribly wet season, and he walked about

day after day in the flooded streets, soaked to the skin,
buying implements and stores and engaging workmen.
Nor did he confine his attention to the concerns of the
Colombian Association. Already he was a man of
mark, invited to the tables of wealthy merchants, and
carried hither and thither to give his opinion on engi
neering questions relating to gas works, water works, and
marine engines. He examined minutely Mr. Brown's
`vacuum engine,' which was making as great a stir as
Perkins' machine did, until George Stephenson, by the
simple application of muscular force, stopped the action
of the pretty toy. The `vacuum engine ' Robert Ste
phenson significantly described in a letter to his father

as `extremely ingenious, but ----.' At the same time
he busied himself in inventing, for a company of London

merchants, a machine for stamping coin, which he hoped
to see employed in the Colombian mint. The Messrs.
Magnays had given him an order for a paper-drying
machine. Whilst he was deciding how he should con
struct the machine for stamping coin and the drying ma
chine, he visited the Mint and the `Times' Newspaper
Office; with which establishments he was so pleased
that he wrote his father a long account of them.

    The Magnays (he wrote) got me an introduction to the

I` Times ' printing office, where was almost as much delighted
Ias was in the Mint. The facility with which they print is

truly wonderful. They were working papers at the rate of
2,000 per hour, which they can hold for any length of time.

72  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                  [CIL V.

The mode they have of conveying    the sheet of paper from one
part of the machine to the other,         think, precisely what
wanted in the drying machine.      is,I

                                                              a
                                                                                 is
    Hitherto Robert Stephenson's experience as mining
    a
engineer had been principally confined to coal mines,6
whereas he was now about to search for the precious
metals. That he might be possessed of all the requisite;
practical information, he took lessons of Richard Phillips,
the Professor of Mineralogical Chemistry_the Colombian

Company paying five guineas for each lesson. At the

same time he was acquiring the Spanish language.
   After staying for short time at the London Coffee

House, he removed to lodgings in No. Finsbury Place
South, and there remained till he left London. In `the

city' he underwent much disappointment. Arrange
ments which had been spoken of as completed had still
to be begun. Heavy arrears of labour fell upon the
young engineer, in respect of matters about which he
ought to have had no trouble whatever. Even about
his appointment--the salary and exact character of the
position --there were difficulties and he had to haggle
and insist before he could get any recognition whatever
of his engagement with the Colombian Mining Company;
and after all his agreement was not with the Company,
but with the C0mpany's agents, Messrs. Herring, Graham,
and Powles, in their individual capacity. Thus after all
Robert Stephenson sailed from England the agent of the
firm, although he was to preside over the engineering

affairs of the Association. All this augured ill for the

state of aifairs in South America.

    During his protracted stay in London, whilst he was
acquiring scientific information, purchasing stores, and

1824`]  HIS VISIT TO LONDON.                                73

vainly endeavouring to ascertain what his duties would
be in South America, Robert Stephenson wrote to his
fiiend, Mr. Longridge, in March, and again in April.
The March letter was written at a time of great distrac
tion and uncertainty, just after his return from Cornwall.
The April letter was penned after a brief excursion in the

country.

                            Imperial Hotel, Covent Garden:
                                           March 9, 1s24.

DEAR SIR, --Your letter the other day gave me pleasure in

hearing you were going on (I suppose, of course, at Forth
IStreet) pretty regularly.  wrote to my father this morning,
Ibut positively durst not mention how long it would be before
I Ishould be able to reach once more the North. Indeed,
Iscarcely dare give it a thought myself.  saw Mr. Newburn

Iyesterday, and he informed me it would at least be fourteen

days before could get my liberty. For heaven's sake don't

mention this to my father. Joseph Pease will perhaps give him

Ithe information: it will, know, make him extremely dissatisfied,
Ibut you know cannot by any means avoid it. There are some
Inew prospects here in agitation, which look forward to with

great satisfaction. It is the making of a road in Colombia.

VVhat a place London is for prospects I This new scheme of the

road or railway is also connected with four silver mines at

Mariquita. The road is projected between La Guayra and the

Icity of Caraccas. You may find La Guayra on the coast,
believe, of the Gulf of Mexico. The climate, from Humboldt,

is not quite so salubrious as that of Mexico. Mr. Powles is the

head of the concern, and he assures me there is no one to

meddle with us. We are to have all the machinery to make,

and we are to construct the road in the most advisable way we

may think, after making surveys and levellings.

   Well might Robert Stephenson say, `What a place
London is for prospects!' He had come up to London
to settle about going to South America as engineer of

the Colombian Mining Association, and after all the

74  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.               [GIL V.

principal promoters of that association now proposed

to send him out on a distinct expedition to another
spot, although in the same quarter of the globe. Even
tually, as it has already been stated, he went out as the
servant of Messrs. Graham, Herring, and Powles; and it

was his intention, when he had attended to their business,

to enter on the work of the Mining Company.
   After many delays the agent of Messrs. Herring,

Graham, and Powles, and Engineer-in-chief of the

Colombian Mining Company, received orders to proceed

immediately to Falmouth, and there take ship to

Carthagena. The principal goods and the first lot of

miners had already quitted England, and the interpreter

to the expedition was already en route for Falmouth.

Obeying his instructions, Robert Stephenson had actually

mounted the Falmouth coach, and had loaded it with

extra luggage, to the amount of a £30 fare, when he

received orders to descend, to unload the coach, and to

start for Liverpool. Of course he complied.

   On reaching Liverpool he wrote to his father (June 8,
1824), giving an account of his journey from town that

affords a striking picture of the troubles of ` the good

old coaching days.'     -

   We have arrived    safe in Liverpool, after' an extremely
                      never recollect in all my travels being so
Ifatiguing journey.
Iterrified on a coach.   expected every moment for many miles
that we should be upset, and if such an accident had happened

we must have literally been crushed to pieces. We had 21 cwt.

of luggage to remove from London to Liverpool by coach. This

may serve to give you a faint idea of the undertaking. This
weight was sent in twice. The coach-top on which we came

was actually rent; all the springs, when we arrived at Liverpool,

were destitute of any elasticity, one of them absolutely broken

1824.]            ARRIVAL 11`? LIVERPOOL.  75

and the body of the coach resting on the framework, so that, in
fact, we rattled into this town more like a stage-waggon than a
light coach.

On June 12, George Stephenson arrived in Liverpool

to bid his son farewell, and took an affecting leave of

him on the 18th.

   During his stay at Liverpool with his son, George
Stephenson, by the hand of a friend, wrote the fol

lowing characteristic    and entertaining  letter to Mr.
Longridge :--

IDEAR SIR, -- arrived    here          Liverpool: June 15, 1824.
                               on Saturday afternoon, and

found Mr. Sanders, Robert, and Charles, waiting for me at the

coach oflice. It gave me great pleasure to see Robert again

before he sails. He expects to leave the country on Thursday

next. We dined with Mr. Sanders on Saturday, and with Mr.

Ellis yesterday. He had three men-servants waiting in the en

trance-hall to show us to the drawing-room. There was a party

to meet us, and kindly we were received. The dinner was very

sumptuous, and the wine costly. We had claret, hock, cham

pagne, and madeira, and all in great plenty; but no one took
Itmore than was proper.
                         is a good custom not to press people

to take so much as does them harm. We dined at seven and left

at twelve o'clock. Sanders and Ellis are magnificent fellows,

and are very kind; Mrs. Sanders is a fine woman, and Mrs.
IEllis very elegant.
                      believe she is niece to Sir James Graham,
IM. P.; must say that we have been very kindly received by
Iall parties.
               am teased with invitations to dine with them, but

each indulgence cannot be attended by me. What changes one
sees l-- this day in the highest life, and the next in a cottage --

one day turtle soup and champagne, and the next bread and

milk, or anything that one can catch. Liverpool is a splendid

place--some of the streets are equal to London. The merchants

are clever chaps, and perseverance is stamped upon every brow.

IThere is a Doctor Trail, a clever mineralogist, and some famous
mathematicians that we have dined with.    was much satisfied

to find that Robert could acquit himself so well amongst them.

76  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                           [CIL V.

IHe was much improved in expressing himself since had seen

I Ithim before ; the poor fellow is in good spirits about going
abroad, and must make the best of it.  was singular good

fortune that brought us together at this time, but the weather

Iis very bad ; it has poured with rain for the last three days. To

day am going over part of the line, but have not been able to
commence yet. Robert will endeavour to write to you before

he sails, and desires his kindest remembrance.

    God bless you, Sir!

    Believe me to remain

                                       Yours sincerely,

    . G. S.

   As soon as his father had said fardwell, Robert Ste
phenson, before he went on board, wrote a hasty hire,
full of filial tenderness, to his mother, explaining that he
had directed Messrs. Herring, Graham, and Powles to
pay £300 per annum, i. e. three-fifths of his salary, to
his father. For several years after their establishment
`the works ' at Newcastle did not pay their expenses.
George Stephenson's partners were far from sanguine
as to their ultimate success, and George, confident as he
was that they would prove a source of great wealth, was
often pinched for ready money to meet his share of the
capital required to feed them: Robert Stephenson knew
this well, and did his utmost to meet the difliculty.

    On the evening of that same June 18, on which he
took leave of his father, Robert Stephenson wrote in his
log--book :--

    June 18, 1824.-- Set sail from Liverpool in the ` Sir William
 Congreve,' at three o'clock in the afternoon: wind from the
south-east, sea smooth, day beautiful; temperature of the air
towards evening in the shade, 58°. Made some experiments
with ` Register Thermometer' to ascertain the temperature of
the sea at various depths, but failed on account of the velocity

1824.]         DEPARTURE FOR AMERICA.        77

of the vessel through the water not allowing the instrument to
sink. The temperature of the surface water appeared to be
54° at seven o'clock in the evening --this ascertained by
lifting a bucket of water on board and immediately immersing
the thermometer. This was considered as sufficiently accurate, as
the temperature could not sensibly change in the time occupied

by the experiment.

Pursuing the system commenced on that first lovely

evening at sea, Robert Stephenson jotted down in his

log-book the mutations of temperature and light, and

other natural phenomena, until on July 23, 1824, he
                                          -
records :----
                                       .

   Early in the morning saw the Colombian coast, and at two
o'clock cast anchor opposite La Guayra; observed with silence
the miserable appearance of the town. The hills behind the

town rise to a height that gives a degree of sublimity to the
scenery in the eyes of a stranger.

The voyage was at an end.

78 LIFE OF. ROBERT STEPHENSON. [CIL VI.

                    CHAPTER VI.

                    SOUTH AMERICA.

                                            (mrsr. 20-24.)

La Guayra-- Caraccas --Proposed Breakwater and Pier at La
Guayra -- Survey for Railroad between La Guayra and Caraccas--
Santa Fé de Bog0ta--l\Iariquita---Life on the Magdalena-- Explores
the Country -- Road between the Magdalena and the Mines --Santa
Ana --Descripti0ns of Scenery -- Arrival of the Cornish Miners
Insubordination of l\Iiners--Friends, Pursuits, and Studies-- Inclina
tion and Duty -- Disappointment of the Directors---Their Secretary.

             in La Guayra on July 23, 1824, Robert
IJANDSteINphGenson                                                I
                    had to  direct his
                                        attention to three

important affairs and report thereon to Messrs. Herring,

Graham, and Powles-the propriety of constructing a

breakwater before the harbour of La Guayra, the cost

and policy of building a pier for the same port, and the

possibility of uniting La Guayra and Caraccas by a line

of railway.

His reports on these three propositions were full and

decisive. Having ascertained the characteristics of the

harbour, the nature and declivity of the bottom of the

shore, and the direction and force of the seas at different

seasons, he pronounced that the construction of the

breakwater would be a dangerous experiment.

   A correct idea of the seas (he wrote) sometimes experienced

in this port cannot well be conveyed by description. One

1824.] PROPOSED PIER AND BREAKIVATER AT GUAYRA. 79

circumstance, however, which may give some idea of their force

is worthy of remark. It occurred during a storm last year,

when a number of ships were wrecked. A large block of
stone, upwards of two tons weight, measuring about eight feet
long, four feet broad, and one foot thick, was thrown up by the
waves four feet above the usual level of the sea, and such was
the violence with which it was projected, that on its coming in
contact with the other fragments of rocks on the shore, it was
divided into two pieces, one of which now lies considerably out

Iof the reach of ordinary seas. It is very remarkable that

during the storm to which have just now alluded, scarcely a
breath of wind prevailed, while the sea raged with such violence
as to drive every ship in the harbour from her anchors, and
several were wrecked on the coast. The cause of this extra

ordinary phenomenon is yet unknown to us. It is not im

probable that it was some branch of the Gulf Stream, modified
by the conformation of the coast, the nature of the soundings,
and many other circumstances combined, with which we are
totally unacquainted.

   Though he condemned the project of a breakwater, he

advised the construction of a pier; and in support of this

counsel he gave returns of the imports and exports of the
harbour, the amount annually raised for wharfage of
goods, and the insufificiency of the existing pier for the
business of the port. The cost of such a pier as he

advised (140 yards long and 24 feet wide at the top)
would be £6,000, including the freight of workmen and
of the necessary machinery to be sent out from England.
The principal material of the structure would be the stone
of the adjacent mountains, which could be conveyed by a

short railroad to the site of the pier. In sinking the
blocks of stone, he advised that care should be taken to

` give the pier a gradual slope on the seaward side, so that

the waves might be completely broken, and consequently

80  LIFE -OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL VI.

their force almost totally extinguished, before reaching

the body of the pier.'

    When he came to consider the third and most im

portant of the three propositions --the construction of a
railway between La Guayra and Caraccas--the ad

vantages likely to follow from the undertaking, and the
natural obstacles to the work, caused him much anxious

thought. The ground was very different from any on

which he had ever seen rails laid. Mounting a mule,

he surveyed the road between the two towns, and found

it `a wonderful example of human industry -- not of

human skill.' The ascents and descents were so pre

cipitous that he wondered how his brute contrived to

keep on its legs.

   To give you an idea (he wrote to his father) of the trouble

I have already had in seeking for a new road, and the trouble
I shall yet have, would be an impossibility. You may attempt

to conceive it by imagining to yourself a country, the whole
surface of which, as far as the eye can reach, is thickly set with
hills, several thousand feet high, from six to eight times as large
as Brusselton Hill. There is a valley, however, which extends
the whole way nearly between La Guayra and Caraccas, up

Iwhich think is the only situation we could get a good road;
Ibut even in this valley there are hills as high as Brusselton.

dare not attempt any tunnelling, because the first earthquake --
and there is no knowing how soon it may come --would close it
up, or at all events render it useless. This circumstance, you
will agree with me, puts tunnelling out of the question. And
to make any very extensive excavations with high sides would
prove equally fatal on the occurrence of an earthquake.

   As he rode up the valley of Caraccas, with moun
tains on either side, he saw that to put down a col
liery tramway in Northumberland, and to lead a line of
rails through such a ravine, were widely different tasks.

1825.] RAILROAD BETWEEN LA GUAYRA AND CARACCAS. 81

Having thoroughly examined the proposed line, he came
to the conclusion that, with everything in his favour,
he could lay down the contemplated railway for about
£160,000. The great risks, however, that would attend
the operations made him see that speculators would
not embark their money in the affair unless there was
a probability of at least a 10 per cent. dividend. The
annual goods traffic between La Guayra and Caraccas
did not amount to more than 5,571 tons. Therefore,

if the road were made and opened, Robert Stephenson

could not see his way to more than £14,180 profit on
each year's transactions ---- an annual revenue that would
only pay 10 per cent. on a capital of £140,000. Against
the probability that the estimated £160,000 would be
exceeded, he put the fact, that large quantities of goods,
of which he could get no returns, were annually con
veyed between the two towns. Again, traffic would be
augmented by the stimulus which a railway would give
to commerce and agriculture. The question admitted of
much debate; but Robert Stephenson, with that prudence
which preserved him in after life from brilliant indiscre

Itions, concluded his report with saying : ` think it would

not be prudent at the present moment to commence the

speculation.'

  Whilst he was thus engaged at La Guayra and Caraccas,
the miners with whom he had come out from Liverpool
went on to Carthagena, and thence along the River

Magdalena.

   As soon as` he could get away from Caraccas, he
mounted his mule, and, accompanied by a black servant
and by Mr. Walker, the interpreter to the expedition,
proceeded across the country to Santa Fé de Bogota.

VOL. I.  G

82  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL VI.

The journey was one of fatigue and peril. Cut-throats
and ruffians were numerous in the country; but being
well armed, Robert Stephenson went his way unconcerned.
He was very anxious to reach Mariquita, near which
place the principal mines of the Colombian Association
were situated; but the nature of his duties forced him

to travel slowly. Messrs. Herring, Graham, and Powles
had instructed him to examine the mineralogical charac
teristics of the country in every direction; and in spite
of the care he took to conceal the object of his journey,
it soon leaked out that he was the engineer of a new

mining company, and daily he was accosted by strangers,
ready to mislead him with false information. More than
once he was induced, by misrepresentations, to ride a
hundred miles after a mare's nest. On one occasion he

spent several days in following a guide, who promised
to bring him to a fissure in a rock abounding with quick
silver. On reaching the spot the quicksilver was there;
and he could not account for its presence, till a former
governor of the district told him that a bullock-wagon
loaded with quicksilver had, some years before, been
upset in that spot. On reaching Bogota, however, he
wrote to his father on January 19, 1825, expressing great
confidence in the mineral wealth of the country.

   Having reached Mariquita, he forthwith proceeded to
examine the mines of the surrounding country. On every
side he found workings; some of which had evidently
been deserted because they offered no prospect of gain,
whilst the appearance of the others induced a belief that
scarcity of labour and capital, during the revolutionary
struggles of the country, had been the sole reason for

leaving them.

1825.]  MARIQUITA.  83

     Mariquita was a spectacle at once imposing and mourn
 ful. Two-thirds of its habitations were in ruins. Heaps
 of rubbish covered sites formerly occupied by palaces.
 Of the public buildings, none were in a state of repair,
 except five churches. The convents were untenanted,
 and in dilapidation. Such was the havoc wrought by
 earthquakes, stagnation of trade, and disturbed politics,
 that of the population of 20,000 who had once inhabited

 the city, only 450 persons remained to see the entrance
 of Robert Stephenson, and wonder what had brought him
 to their ill-starred city.

     Honda being the extreme point of the Magdalena

 navigable by craft coming from Carthagena, he hastened
 to inspect the route between the river port and the city
 in the interior, to which his men with their ponderous
 implements and machinery were advancing. The distance
 between Honda and Mariquita is about twelve miles,

 and the features of the country can be briefly stated. On
 leaving Honda the road is for a short distance precipitous,
after which it rises gently for about two miles to an
 extensive breadth of table-land, beautifully covered with
delicate grasses, and studded with groups of trees, some

of which are in blossom at all seasons of the year. At

points this magnificent plain is bounded by small isolated
ridges of alluvial rocks. Some of these rocks are almost
perpendicular from their bases up to their irregularly
serrated peaks. Onwards the scenery is of increasing
loveliness, and before Mariquita is reached, the route
passes through groves of palm and coco, orange, cinnamon,
and almond trees, pines and mangoes.

    On the whole, the roads from the Magdalena to the mines
in the immediate vicinity of Mariquita (the mines of Santa

                                                                  G2

84  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.         [CIL VI.

Ana, La Manta, San Juan, and El Christo de Laxas) were
good--that is to say, good for Spanish America. A
moderate amount of labour would have rendered them

passable for wheeled carriages, except at certain points

where it was clear that wheels could never run. In these

precipitous portions of the route, which mules took two
hours to cross, Robert Stephenson saw at a glance dif
ficulties of which he had not been forewarned, and for

which he consequently was unprovided.  The heavier

portion of the machinery could not be moved across

country except on wheeled carriages.

   In due course the first party of miners arrived, but they

had to leave the greater part of their machinery on the
banks of the Magdalena, and proceed to the mines with

only the lighter implements, which could be packed upon
the backs of mules. Of course an urgent request was

despatched `to London that other machinery might be

sent out, so constructed, that each large machine could

be taken to pieces, small enough for transport on mules.

But before this message reached the directors, they had

shipped off from Newcastle a large quantity of iron goods,

which, on being thrown upon shore by the peons at Honda,

remained, and to this day probably remain, useless and

cased with rust. Robert Stephenson, however, did not lose

heart. Taking his men, and the few implements which

they could carry with them, he hastened to the mines,

reopened them, explored their workings, and commenced

working for ore.  -

    The best mines, of which the Association had obtained

leases from the Colombian Government, were those of

St. Ana and La Manta, adjacent to the village of St. Ana.
The distance between Mariquita and St. Ana is about

1825.]  SCENERY OF SANTA ANA.  85

twelve miles; but those twelve miles comprised the worst
portions of the way from the river. After leaving Mari
quita, the miners had to traverse a plain for six miles,
when they entered on a broken tract watered by two
rivers, which it was necessary to ford. The next six
miles lay up the sides of mountains. Often the way ran
over bare rocks, through narrow passages worn by the
floods of the wet season, and down declivities so nearly
perpendicular that no-beast of burden, except a mule,
could descend them. Standing on an eastern slope of
the Andes, the village of Santa Ana (containing when the
miners first reached it about nine cottages) afforded a
grateful contrast to the desolate grandeur of the city in the
plain. Instead of the intense heat of the valley beneath,
its temperature was about 75° in the shade, and during

the night 6° or 8° lower. A breeze played through the

trees; and the soil, rich as the mould of an artificial

garden, yielded fruit and vegetables in abundance.

    On all sides (Robert Stephenson wrote to his stepmother) is an
immense forest of fine trees, which are always green, no winter
being known in these climates. The leaves are always gradually
falling, but they are immediately succeeded by fresh green leaves.
The ground descends suddenly from the front of our house for
above a mile, in which small distance the fall is no less than 800
feet. From the bottom of this descent, the ground rises
rapidly to the height of 1,000 feet, forming a mountain ridge
which is covered to the very summit with strong trees that are
always green. Beyond this small ridge of hills rise others still
higher and higher, until their tops are covered with everlasting
snows, and where not a spot of vegetation is to be seen, all
being white with snow and ice.

    '

   A grander panorama than that enormous ravine, walled

by forests, and crowned with peaks of gleaming whiteness,

86         LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.     [CIL VI.

cannot be conceived. Clothing the curves of the interior

hills were tree-ferns and magnolias, groves of bamboo,

acacias, palms, and cedars. Another picturesque feature

added charm to the landscape. Fed by the gradual dis

solution of distant snow, a river ran from the cool heights

into the hot air of the valley. By tranquil pools pelicans
watched for their prey, and overhead, in the branches,

parrots and mocking-birds, monkeys and macaws, gave

colour and animation to the picture. Flashing with

metallic lustre humming-birds darted from flower to

flower, disturbing the clouds of butterflies which floated

through the luxurious atmosphere.      -

    Amidst such scenery Robert Stephenson spent more

than two years, endeavouring with inadequate means to

cope with gigantic difficulties, and suffering under those

petty troubles which are more vexatious than greater

miseries.

    In the immediate vicinity of Santa Ana, the mountain

river, falling over ledges of granite, had worn deep basins

in the rock. One of these tarns Robert Stephenson se

lected for a swimming bath. The granite sides of the

pit being almost perpendicular, bathers could not walk

gradually into the deep water. In the centre, however,

was fixed a flat block of stone, the top of which was

about thirty-six inches below the surface of the water,

the distance between the bank and the stone being at one

point not more than three feet. Bathers who could not

swim used to jump from the side to this natural table.

Unfortunately a sudden fall of rain caused a torrent

of water to raise this ponderous mass of stone, and

bear it downwards to the plain. A few days later, a

gentleman attached to the mining expedition, who was

1825.]  THE CORNISH MINERS.               87

unable to swim, went to the tarn. Having leaped from

the point, where he expected to alight on the block, the

bather in another instant was struggling in the pool.

Fortunately Robert Stephenson, who was an expert

swimmer, came up just in time to plunge into the basin,

and catching the sinking man by the back of his neck,

conveyed him safe to shore.

It was not till the end of October, 1825, that miners

hai been collected in sufficient numbers to commence

great operations. In that month a strong staff of Cor

nish miners made their appearance, and with them for

a time Robert Stephenson's troubles greatly increased.

Proper care had not been taken to select sober and

steady men. It was right that English workmen engaged

to encounter the perils of a South American climate

should be well paid, but the terms on which these

miners had been hired were far too high. Insolent

i"om prosperity, and demoralised by the long-continued

ldl6Il8SS of the voyage, they no sooner entered Honda

zhan they roused the indignation of the inhabitants by

excesses which outraged even South American morals.

Before Robert Stephenson made the acquaintance of

the men, he received a formal and angry remonstrance

from the Governor of Honda with regard to their con

duct. The only thing to be done was to get them to

work with all speed.

  I have no idea, (wrote Robert Stephenson from Mariquita to

Mr. Illingworth, the commercial manager at Bogota,) of letting

them linger out another week without some work being done.

IIndeed, some of them are anxious to get on with something.
Many of them, however, are ungovernable.  dread the

management of them. They have already commenced to drink

in the most outrageous manner. Their behaviour in Honda

88     LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.            [CIL VI.             l

Ihas,  am afraid, incurred for ever the displeasure of the         4
                                                                   l
Governor, at all events so far as induces me to despair of being

Iable to calculate upon his friendly cooperation in any of our
future proceedings.  hope when they are once quietly settled

Iat Santa Ana and the works regularly advancing, that some

improvement may take place. To accomplish this, propose

residing at Santa Ana with them for awhile.

   There was reason for uneasiness. Robert Stephenson

spoke firmly to the men, but he saw that his language,
though moderate and judicious, merely roused their re
sentment. Scarcely a day passed without some petty ex
hibition of disrespect and hostility; and though in Santa
Ana they had fewer opportunities for gross licentiousress,
they could not be weaned at once from habitual drunken
ness and indolence. The supervisors or ` captains.' as
they were called, according to the custom of the Cornish
miners, were the most mutinous. Mere workmen, and

altogether ignorant of the science of their vocation, they
were incredulous that any man could understand mining
operations who had not risen from the lowest employ
ments connected with them. In the Northumbrian coal

field, a distich popular a generation since runs --

                                Trapper, trammer, hewer,
                                Under, overman, and then viewer.

The Cornish ` captains ' in like manner were strongly in
favour of promotion from the ranks, and were reluctant
to obey the orders of a mere lad, and, what was worse still,
a north-country lad. Their insolence was fostered by the
ludicrous respect paid to `the captains ' by the natives,
both Spaniards and Indians, who, misled by the title, re

garded them as superior to the young engineer-in-chief.
The ` captains' themselves immediately saw their advantage

1825.]   DISCONTENT OF THE MINERS.               89

_and in their drunkenness told both the workmen and

the native population that Robert Stephenson was merely

a clerk, sent out to pay them their wages and see that

the expedition did not fail from want of funds.  -

Quitting Mariquita, where the rumbling of earthquakes

had not allowed him many nights of unbroken rest,

Robert Stephenson took up his residence on the mountains,

the curate of Santa Ana putting a cottage at his disposal.

A few weeks passed on, and.there were alarming sym

ptoms of a general mutiny of the workmenagainst his

authority. A new arrangement of the men at the dif

ferent mines was the occasion of open revolt. One night

early in December, the most dangerous and reckless of

the Cornish party assembled in an apartment of the

curate's cottage. Wearied with a long day's work,

Robert Stephenson had retired to rest in the next room,

and was roused from his first slumber by the uproar

of the rascals, who, mad with liquor, yelled out their
determination not to obey a beardless boy. For more

than an hour he lay on his bed listening to the riot
--fearful that the disturbance might lead to bloodshed,

and prudently anxious to avoid personal collision with
the drunken rabble. Of course he knew that their

_insolent speeches were intended for his ears, yet he

remained quiet. He was alone his opponents were
Ifmany.
         the difficulty became an affair of blows, the

weight .of evidence would be all against him; and

even if he were killed, he would be believed to have

provoked the conflict by his own rashness. But when
the insurgents proposed that the ` clerk ' should forthwith

be taught his proper place, he rightly judged that it

would not do for him to remain longer in his private room

90  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.           [CIL VI.

when his presence might still the storm, and could not

aggravate it. Rising, therefore, from his bed, he walked
into the midst of the rioters--unarmed, and with no

more clothing on him than his trousers and shirt.

   At his first appearance there was a low murmur, fol

lowed by a deep silence. Taking up his place in the
middle of the room, he drew himself up and calmly sur

veyed them. Silence having had its effect, he said quietly,
` It won't do for us to fight to-night.
                                         It wouldn't be fair;
Ifor you are drunk, and am sober.
                                         We had better wait

till to-morrow. So the best thing you can do is to break

up this meeting, and go away quietly.'

    Cowed by his coolness, the men made no reply.
For a minute they were silent, and turned their eyes on

the ground ; and. then, rising from their seats, they
stumbled out of the room into the open air, to surround
the cottage and pass two or three hours in shouting, ` One
and all! --one and all! ' thereby declaring that they were

one and all determined on revolt. Thus far master of the
position, Robert Stephenson lit a cigar, and, sitting down
in the room, allowed the tipsy scoundrels to see him

through the open door calmly smoking.

    The riot being renewed on a subsequent night, he

left his cottage, and, accompanied by two friends, found
refuge in the house of a native.

  It appears remarkable (wrote Robert Stephenson to Mr.

Illingworth, December 8, 1825) that having been all my life

I Iaccustomed to deal with miners, and having had a body of them

under my control, and may say in my employ, that should
now find it difficult to contribute to their comfort and welfare.

I IThey plainly tell me that am obnoxious to them, because
Iwas not born in Cornwall; and although they are perfectly

aware that have visited some of the principal mines in that

1825.]  ERECTION OF COTTAGE.  91

county, and examined the various processes on the spot, yet
they tell me that it is impossible for a north-countryman to
know anything about mining.

    Fortunately, Robert Stephenson had a cordial ally in
Mr. lllingworth at Bogota, who lost no time in sending
word that Robert Stephenson was the head of the expedi
tion, and that the men from high to low were to obey
him, and him alone. And in due course these representa

tions were rendered yet more emphatic by letters from
the Board of Directors in London.

    When a better feeling had been established between
the miners and himself, Robert Stephenson encouraged

them to spend their evenings in athletic sports. In cast

ing quoits, lifting anvils, reaching beams suspended by
cords, and throwing the hammer, he had few equals;
and by displaying his prowess in these and similar sports,
he gradually gained the respect and affection of his men;
but he was unable to work a complete reformation in
their habits. To the last he could never get from any
man more than half a day's work each day, and he always
had nearly a third of his hundred and sixty subordinates
disabled by drink.

    Having moved from Mariquita to Santa Ana, he

had a cottage built for his own habitation. It contained

two rooms, the outer and inner walls being composed
of flattened bamboo, and the ceilings of smooth reeds,
palm-leaves being used for the roof. The entire frame
work was tied together with cords of the tough and

pliant bijuco. In this cottage, commanding a view of

the ravine, he was so fortunate as to have congenial

society. Visitors came from Bogota and Mariquita, and
for weeks together he had with him M. Boussingault and

92     LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL VI.

Dr. Roullin. The former was an accomplished chemist

and geologist; and the latter had been invited by the
Government to become Professor of Mathematics in an
University which it was proposed to establish in the new

republic. Under their guidance Robert Stephenson studied
with system and accuracy the higher branches of mathe
matics, and various departments of natural science. Occa

sionally he made excursions to Bogota and Mariquita, to
attend the horse-races or the balls; but such trips were
only occasional relaxations, after weeks of work and study

at Santa Ana. At this time, also, he took especial pains

to rub off the remains of that provincial roughness
which had marked him in boyhood. With characteristic
simplicity he begged the few English gentlemen of his
acquaintance to correct him whenever he used the diction,
idioms, or intonations of north-country dialect. Knowing
the disposition with which they had to deal, his friends
took him at his word; and though. at first their criticisms

were frequent and far from pleasant, they never produced

in him even momentary irritation. In one of his letters

to his mother at this period he speaks of himself as

dividing his time `between eating and study.' In study

he was perhaps intemperate, but in his diet he was

habitually sparing and moderate. Occasionally he took
wine and spirits, but his usual drink was water. He
smoked regularly, but not immoderately.

   To have a complete picture of Robert Stephenson's
South American life, the reader must remember his

strong love of animals, and imagine the bamboo cottage
of the Andes peopled with four or five monkeys, as
many parrots, and a magnificent mule named `Hurry,'
who, as soon as his master's dinner-hour arrived, used

    »

1825.]    HIS ENGLISH CORRESPONDENTS.          93

to enter the sitting-room, and patiently wait beside the
table until he was presented with a loaf of bread.

   Whilst he was thus living in his mountain-home he

received on the whole. but few letters from England.
During the first twelve months, indeed, of his absence

from his native land, he heard frequently from his father,
as also from Mr. Edward Pease, Mr. Joseph Pease, Mr.

Richardson, Mr. Longridge, Mr. John Dixon, Mr. Edward
Storey, worthy Anthony Wigham of Killingworth, and Mr.
Nicholas Wood; but as time went on, these correspondents
became remiss, and Robert Stephenson learnt what grief
it is to pine in a foreign land for one's own country, and

at the same time to feel neglected by those at home.

During the last twelve months of his stay in Colombia he

did not hear once from home, either through the mis

carriage of letters or the neglect of his father and step

mother to write. In a letter to Mrs. George Stephenson

in the June of 1826, he observes, with a burst of that

strong affection which inspired him to the last : --

  IMy dear father's letter, which received a few days ago, was

Ian affectionate one, and when he spoke of his head getting grey

and finding himself descending the hill of life, could not re

frain from giving way to feelings which overpowered me, and

Iprevented me from reading on. Some, had they seen me, would

perhaps call me childish: but would tell them such feelings

and reflections as crossed me at that moment are unknown to

them. They are unacquainted with the love and affection due

to attentive parents, which in me seems to have become more

acute,    as the distance  and  period  of my  absence have in

                 I

creased.

   The longer he remained in South America the more

painful was his position. A very brief acquaintance

with the country satisfied him he was at the head of an

enterprise projected by visionary speculators, who had

94  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C1I. VI.

 no real knowledge of its difficulties. The letters which
 he received from England during the first year of his
 absence, showed that the unsoundness of the scheme was

 known to the best judges of such matters in London.

It is not agreeable to be tied to a losing concern. He

 felt that no credit could come to him from his connec

 tion with the Colombian Mining Association, and he
would gladly have ended it. This feeling was strength
ened by his English correspondents. His partners in the
concern at Newcastle begged him to return to look after
the affairs of the factory, which were suffering by his
absence. They represented to him that he had no legal
agreement with the Company, and that Messrs. Herring,
Graham, and Powles would not disapprove his immediate

return.

    But Robert Stephenson felt that he was bound to stay

at the mines. It was true the Company had not a

hold upon him in law, but it had in honour; and he
resolved to remain, at any cost, till the stipulated three
years had expired, or until he had obtained formal per
mission from the directors to leave his post.

  The following letter, written to M. Longridge at the

close of 1825, when he had hopes of honourable libera

tion from his distasteful engagement before the expiration
of the three years, shows his state of mind: ---

                               Mariquita: December 15, 1825.
IMY DEAR SIR,-- About a fortnight ago received your kind
Iletter, dated July 21, 1825.
                               was glad to learn your family
Iwas in good health, to whom beg to be remembered in the

kindest manner, as well as to my other friends in your part of
the world. Your account of affairs in England was to me

exceedingly interesting, particularly that part respecting the

progress of the railway undertakings. The failure of the

1825.]  LETTER TO MR. LONGRIDGE.                   95

ILiverpool and Manchester Act, fear, will retard much this kind

Iof speculation; but it is clear that they will eventually succeed,

and still anticipate with confidence the arrival of a time when

we shall see some of the celebrated canals filled up. It is to be

regretted that my father placed the conducting of the levelling

under the care of young men without experience. Simple as

the process of levelling may appear, it is one of those things
that requires care and dexterity in its performance. Your

Iadvice regarding my leaving this country, should my agreement

be transferred to the Colombian Association, refrained from

following, principally from what Mr. Richardson said in his

letter, contained in the same sheet with yours, in which he

requested me not to leave the country without the consent of
Imy employers. This was inclined to think was the most
Iadvisable, especially as
                           have already been so long from

IEngland, and that the stay of a few months longer might

secure me their interest on my return, and still entertain

hopes of being able to leave this country previous to the

expiration of three years, as the agents in Bogota have recently

Irepresented to the Board of Directors the assistance that might

be to them in England in arranging such machinery as may be

required in this country. What they have sent out is a pretty

Ifgood specimen of the ideas they have of the difficulties to be
encountered in the conveyance of heavy materials.  Mexico

presents as many obstacles, and of equal magnitude, as Colombia,

I can say at once that a great number of the steam-engines that

Iwere being made when left may as well be made use of at home.
  ISince wrote to you last about the Isthmus of Darien,

things have taken a turn. Messrs. Herring & Co. appear to

have relinquished, in a great measure, the idea of embarking

largely in making roads, and in consequence have raised a

private association, consisting of a few of the most respectable

houses in London, who have made such propositions to the
Colombian Government as seem to leave little doubt but they

will succeed in obtaining the privilege. Their wish is not so

much to retain the road, after it is made, altogether to them

selves, as to lend the Government money and supply them with

English engineers under a certain interest, and afterwards to

share with the Government a proportion of the profits arising

from the road. These propositions display liberality, and are

96  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                  [CIL VI.

of such a nature as, in my opinion, will induce the acceptance of

them. This arrangement put an end to those that had been

entered into by the agents in Bogota, and consequently renders

Iit uncertain whether shall have to go or not. For the same
I Ireason, suppose, the models that wrote you about are lost
Isight of. At all events, shall visit the isthmus in order to get
Ilocal information which may be of use to me in England, as

feel quite satisfied that the scheme will go on. We have heard

many objections urged against the project, such as the difficulty

of procuring European workmen in suflicient numbers, and more

especially the nature of the climate, which is said to be ex

tremely bad, from the excessive and continual humidity which

reigns more or less throughout the whole year, and gives rise to

fever and ague. Much doubt, however, exists on this score. In

obtaining the privilege for sending   steam machinery to the
                                      fear some obstacles have
Icountry for the use of the road,
I Iarisen since wrote you. Congress,   believe, has thrown out

Isome hints that more attention would hereafter be paid to
granting monopolies of that description.       have had a good

deal of conversation with the house in Bogota. They seem to
Ithink it better to mention it to Mr. Powles.
                                               see no advantage
Iin that; but shall make such arrangements with R. S. Illing
worth, the representative of the house, that, if nothing should

Ibe done before leave, a correspondence may exist between us.
I Ihave had so much to do lately that have not been able to

pay any attention to this matter.

  I Ihave my health just now very well, though cannot say am
Iso strong as when left England. The tropical climates are far

from being so unhealthy as is generally supposed by those in

northern latitudes. The rainy season is the only objectionable

part. It occurs twice in one year. The first season of rain at

Mariquita commences about the middle of March-and continues
till the middle of May. The second commences near the 11th

and 12th of October, and is just now terminating. The remain

ing parts of the year are dry and hot, though not unhealthy.

Thermometer hot: in the morning 79° or 80°, at mid-day 82° to
I84°. During the rainy season it is 2° or 3° lower.
Ionce seen the thermometer as low as 73°, when       have

                                                found it

Iuncomfortably chilly. And at this moment it stands at 82°, and

not the least sign of perspiration about me, though have been

1825.]  LETTER TO MR. LONGRIDGE.                            97

walking. It is extraordinary how soon the human body becomes

inured to high temperatures, without suffering much inconve

nience. We have now got a steam-boat in action on the river

Magdalena, being the second experiment; but the boat they
have built last has the same fault as the first one--that is,

drawing too much water. Much money has been spent in this

Ispeculation, chiefly from bad management. The engines are

from the United States, where have heard they have the finest

Isteam-boats in the world; and as the communication from

Carthagena to that country is frequent, have some intention
of seeing their steam machinery. It is the best way home, a regu

lar packet being established between New York and Liverpool.
I hope soon to be able to give you some more certain details
Irespecting my route home, as fully expect from what has been
I Isaid to the Board that shall be liberated.
Ifather and mother about three weeks ago.      wrote to my

                                           hope they have

received my letter safe; but much uncertainty is connected

with the forwarding of letters here. The post-otfice regulations
are bad. The last letter that Mr. Pease wrote me came to hand

open, from having been stuck to others by the melting of the

sealing-wax, which almost invariably melts in these climates.

Wafers are much preferable.

My kind love to my father and mother, and believe me,

        My dear Sir,

                                     Yours most sincerely,

                                     Ronnnr STEPHENSON.

  IP.S.--May beg the favour of your attending to the payment

Iof my yearly subscription to the Lit. and Phil. Society?*

rather suspect it has been neglected.

Michael Longridge, Esq.
      Bedlington Iron Works, near Morpeth, Northumberland.

    So he remained, doing his best, and fighting with
great difiiculties. The amount of work he performed in

  ' The Literary and Philosophical     at Killingworth, and of which Robert
                                        Stephenson ultimately became chief
Society of Newcastle, from which
both the Stephensons derived so         benefactor.
much benefit during their residence
                                                                                           .
    VOL. I.
                                     II

98  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL VI.

the service of his employers was very great. He ex
plored the country far and near; made assays of speci
mens of ore; wrote reams of letters and reports, many
of which, besides being unexceptionable as business

statements, have considerable literary merits; drew out a

sketch for an efficient administration of mines; and in

every way strove to earn and save money for the Asso

ciation.

   All these exertions met with no proper response in

London. Instead of supplying him with the machinery

for which he had written, the Directors sent out fresh

cargoes of costly and ponderous apparatus, which could

no more be conveyed over bridgeless rivers, and up

mountain passes, than they could be wafted from the

earth's surface to another planet; and to add to his

chagrin, the projectors wrote to him, complaining that        I

he had not already sent home a freight of silver.             l
                                                              1
Some ignorant and self-sufficient persons reported    to
                                                      in
him the careless speeches and votes of the directors  in
the most offensive form. In answer to a statement

one of Robert Stephenson's reports, that the operations

at Santa Ana might be accelerated if they had either

steam, or water power wherewith to work certain ma

chinery, one of the worthy officials reprimanded the
engineer for not availing himself of such a noble
river as the Magdalena. Of course he could only laugh

at a proposition to turn the Magdalena up to the

Andes. But when the Secretary undertook to criticise
the investigations of M. Boussingault, the geologist and

chemist employed by the Company, and presumed to sneer
at the ` theoretical services' of the man of science, Robert

Stephenson became indignant. ` These men,' he wrote,

1825.]  MISREPRESENTATIONS IN ENGLAND.  99

` prate about the superiority of practical men over scien
tific men, being themselves neither the one nor the other.'

   In his comments on M. Boussingault's proceedings,

however, the London Secretary caused as much amuse

ment as anger. In his report, the French savant had
mentioned the advisability of using ` chiens' in the mines.

On this information, the Secretary condemned in the
strongest terms the cruelty of employing dogs as beasts

of burden. In his next homeward despatch Robert

Stephenson took an opportunity to inform the zealous

protector of the canine race that the word chien in
French, and Hand in German, was a mining term,
signifying a kind of carriage with four wheels, which
was not known in England by the name of dog, but by
tram; and that in the north of England a somewhat

similar sort of carriage was known as a rolley.

        112

100  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON I  [CIL VII.

                        CHAPTER VII.

                   FROM SOUTII AMERICA TO NEWCASTLE.

                                                 (zarsr. 23-24.)

    Leaves Santa Ana -- Goes up to Carthagena --- Encounters
    Trevithick -- Trevithick's Peculiarities -- Sails for New York -- Be
    calmed amongst the Islands -- Terrible Gales in the open Sea ---
    Two VVrecks--C annibalism -- Shipwrecked off New York --Strange
    Conduct of a Mate--Is made a Master Mason --Pedestrian Excursion
    to Montreal-- Remarkable Conversation on the Banks of the St.
    Lawrence--Retiuns to New York --Arrives at Liverpool --Meeting
    with his Father----Goes up to London and sees the Directors of
    the Colombian Mining Association -- Trip to Brussels -- Return
     to Newcastle ----Liverpool.

                 STEPHENSON was aware that his prolonged

ROBEsoRjoTurn in America was highly prejudicial to his

interests. Mr. Longridge, who during his absence had
undertaken the active management of the affairs of
` Robert Stephenson and Co. of Newcastle,' wrote urgent
entreaties for his return home. His heart told him how
much his father needed him. He knew, too, that all his
most influential friends--Mr. Richardson, Mr. Pease, and
other capitalists to whom he looked for countenance---
were of opinion that he might with propriety consult his
own advantage, in deciding whether he should quit, or
keep at his post. His word, however, was given; and
he kept it.

    At length the time came when he could honourably

start homewards : and as he looked back on the previous

1827.] PREPARATIONS FOR LEAVDIG AMERICA.  101

three years he was not altogether dissatisfied with their
results. From December 30, 1824, to December 31,

1827, the entire expenditure of the Colombian Mining

Association had been little short of £200,000. A large

portion of this sum had been wasted by maladministra
tion in London, but the great operations carried on with

the remainder had been directed by him----a mere boy
between twenty-one and twenty-four years of age. And
in everything for which he individually could be held
accountable the expedition had been successful. Had he
worked the mines, as the Spaniards worked them, with
the cheap labour of slaves, they would have yielded him
as much profit as preceding engineers had extracted from
them. As it was, on bidding official farewell to the di
rectors, he was in a position to tell them that their pro
perty, under economical management and with the agency
of proper machinery, could be made to pay them a

handsome, though not an enormous, dividend.

   In the July of 1827, Robert Stephenson wrote his last

South American letter to Mr. Longridge.

                                                                             July 16, 1827.

   MY DEAR SrR,--The period of my departure from this
place has at last really and truly arrived, though not longer than

Ia month or two ago was despairing of being able to get away

without incurring the displeasure of the Board of Directors, as

Ithey wrote to the principal agent at Bogota, expressing an

earnest wish that would remain inSt. Ana, notwithstanding

my agreement having terminated, until the arrival of a new

Isuperintendent, whom they say they found great difficulty in

procuring. Just about the same time received a letter from

IMr. Richardson, in which he states that the factory was far

from being in a good condition, and that unless returned
promptly to England it would not improbably be abandoned.
He further stated that the Board had not met with a person to

102  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL VII.

Isucceed me; but notwithstanding this, he supposed would

leave at the expiration of my agreement. This induced me

immediately to advise the agents in Bogota of my intention to

leave with all convenient despatch, and of my hope that they

would make such arrangements as might seem most expedient

to them, respecting the filling up my situation. In answer

to my letter, they determined upon coming down from Bogota

to St. Ana, and attending the establishment themselves up to

the arrival of another person from England. In pursuance of
this resolution, Mr. Illingworth is now in this place, and it is

Imy intention to leave on the 24th or 25th of the present month.

By the 30th shall have procured a boat at Honda for my
passage to the coast. At present it is my intention to proceed

Idirect to Carthagena, and still have an itching to visit the
IIsthmus of Panama, so that may know something about the

Ipossibility, or impossibility of forming a communication between

the two seas; though the very short time that can stay there

Iwill evidently prevent me getting more than a very general

idea of such a scheme. From the information have gathered

from one or two gentlemen who have visited that coast, it would

appear most judicious to proceed from Carthagena to Chagres by

sea, and from the latter place to pass by the main road to

Panama, on the Pacific--these being the situations between

which a communication is most likely to be effected. It is

extraordinary that the recent proposals which were made by

British capitalists for undertaking this scheme to the Colombian

Government did not excite more interest. When they were

brought before Congress, they scarcely elicited a consideration;

at least nothing was said, or done which the importance of the

subject demanded. Some individuals of power connected with

the Government were weak enough to imagine that a free com

munication between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans would be

Iproductive of serious inconvenience to Colombia. Upon what

grounds such an opinion was founded am not well informed ;

but there can be no doubt but that interested views of this kind

will in time fall to the ground, especially when civilisation has

made more advances, and a more intimate intercourse between

the inhabitants of the east and west parts of this continent shall

Ibe rendered almost, if not absolutely, necessary. From what
Ihave seen of this republic,
                              feel thoroughly convinced that

1827.]  PREPARATIONS FOR LEAVING AMERICA.  103

inland communication will ever remain imperfect--nay, probably
little better than it now is. Produce in the interior cannot pos

sibly be conveyed to the coast, and thence exported to foreign
markets, with profitable results; cultivation will consequently

Ialways be confined to the provinces bordered by the sea;

mean, of course, for such articles as are to be exported. What
ever is yielded by the interior will be consumed at home.

   If, therefore, a connection between the east and west popu

lations of this continent is cut off by the natural difficulties
presented by the surface, it seems reasonable to conclude that

an opening by the isthmus to admit of conveyance by water

will become indispensable. This is only contemplating the

advantage which such an undertaking would be to Colombia and

the other South American powers. But how the magnificence of

such a work augments in our ideas when we consider the
advantages which would arise from it -- how it would influence

commerce in every quarter of the earth! The grounds of the

proposal made by a number of the most respectable merchants'

houses in London, for undertaking the examination and execu

tion of a road, or canal across the isthmus, were objected to,

principally from the way in which the capital was to be raised

and the parties guaranteed against loss. The cash was to be

raised by a joint stock company, which was to be repaid to the

parties by the Colombian Government, in bonds bearing a

specific interest from the completion of the work. This was, in

fact, inviting the Government to make another loan for this

specific purpose, and, in short, increasing their national debt

without appropriate revenues to meet its demands. One would

have thought with a young country that this proposal would

have met with immediate sanction; but on the contrary, the

Government, seeing the low state of their finances, and the great

difficulties they would have in getting the revenue of the

republic to cover the expenditure, trembled at the idea of

augmenting their inconveniences, which they even at that time

knew must sooner or later plunge the whole country into its
Ipresent difficulties.
                        cannot well explain the unsettled state of

the whole of this country, and the fluctuations of opinion which

daily take place among the people. One day we hear of nothing

but civil war, another brings forward some displeasing decree

from Bolivar, whose character as a disinterested man has lost

t...?,. . .. __~-..~- _ ~.7. ~ . .  ~ ..               . --- ~ -

10;           LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.               [OIL VII.

ground very much amongst his own people. The laws in many

parts are held in contempt, and a disposition for changing the

present constitution is pretty general throughout every depart
ment. A division of the republic into states appears inevitable,

but the precise basis upon which such a change is to be accom

plished is yet undetermined, and probably will remain so for a
Iftwelvemonth.
                the country had not already suffered severely
Ifrom internal war, or if the effects were not so fresh in the

memory of the present generation, should say that contention
in the shape of war would again break out; but the apathetic

Idisposition of the people, together with the worn-out resources
of the nation, will,   think, effectually counteract any such

movement.

  I was much pleased to learn from your letter of half-a-dozen

dates, the arrangements you had made respecting your little
Idaughter, and hope she enjoys good health, with the whole of
Iyour family.
               shall be most happy to relate some travellers'
I Istories to her when return, but must be careful in my
selection, as, if all were told, it might give her ideas a turn too

much towards romance.

In the close of your last letter, dated Feb. 2, 1827, you men

Ition that the calisthenic exercises have just come into fashion.
This puzzled me not a little.       could not find for the life of me
Iany signification for the new-coined word, and therefore am

as ignorant of the kind of exercise which has become fashionable

I I Iamongst the ladies as was before left England, and suppose
I Imust remain so until return.

  I Iwas delighted to hear you were studying Spanish, but am

afraid (on my part only) our conversation in that beautiful
language must be very limited--` pero quando nos vemos lo

probaremos.'

                                    Quedo su afectuoso amigo,

                                    ROBERT STEPHENSON.

Michael Longridge, Esq.
      Bedlington Iron Works, Morpeth, Northumberland.

   The Association having notified to him the appointment
of his successor, Robert Stephenson, after being enter
tained at a public dinner, by his coadjutors of all ranks,

1827.]  DEPARTURE FROM SANTA ANA.  105

quitted Santa Ana, and with his friend Charles Empson,
who had been his constant associate in his American

labours, proceeded to Carthagena to take ship. He had
much wished to visit the isthmus before his return to Eng
land, but the delay which such a trip would occasion caused

him to dismiss all thought of making it. At Carthagena

he was joined by Mr. Gerard, an employé of the Association,
who was bound for Scotland, having under his charge two
little boys, named Monteleagre. Another addition was
made to the party in the person of Trevithick, whom Robert
Stephenson accidentally met in an hotel. Without funds
and without credit, Trevithick, after undergoing inde
scribable hardships in exploring the isthmus, had made

his way foot-sore and almost starved to Carthagena. A

strange reverse,had come over his fortunes since the time

when the Peruvians received him with the honours of

a conqueror, and, in anticipation of the fabulous wealth
which it was expected would flow to them from his genius,
had shod his horses' hoofs with silver. An instructive
study was that rude, gaunt, half-starved ` Cornish giant '--
eager for fresh knowledge, liberal, daring, self-reliant,
and original in all questions pertaining to his own profes
sion, but on all other subjects untaught and unobservant.
There is no doubt that the original and daring views of
Trevithick with respect to the capabilities of the locomo

tive made a deep impression on Robert Stephenson.
    As there was no suitable vessel about to start without

delay from Carthagena for a British port, Robert Stephen
son decided to take passage on a ship bound for New
York, and thence to proceed to London, or Liverpool.
The entire party, including Trevithick, quitted the un
wholesome little town of Carthagena, where yellow fever

106  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.         [CIL VII.

was raging, and set out for New York. The voyage was
eventful. At first the weather was serene, and for several

days the ship was becalmed amongst the islands. From
the stillness of the atmosphere the sailors predicted that
on clearing off from there they woiild learn that a

fearful storm had raged in the open ocean. A few de

grees farther north, they came upon the survivors of a
wreck, who had been for days drifting about in a dis
mantled hull, without provisions and almost without
hope. Two more days' sailing brought them in with a
second dismantled hull full of miserable creatures, the

relics of another wreck, whom hunger had reduced to

cannibalism?"

   The voyage was almost at an end, and they had made

    " As it has been a matter of         mantled hulls. The one had been

 question whether civilised men in re    nine days without food of any kind,
 cent times have ever been driven by     except the carcasses of two of their

 hunger to cannibalism, the curious     companions who had died a day or
                                        two previous from fatigue and hun
and the incredulous will like to        ger. The other crew had been driven

 have before them Robert Stephen        about for six days, and were not so
son's accormt of an occurrence which    dejected, but were reduced into such

 seafaring men, who dare to tell the    a weak state that they were obliged
truth, will admit to be by no means     to be drawn on board our vessel by
a solitary instance of such horror.
` We had,' Robert wrote from New        ropes. A brig bound to Havannah
castle on March 1, 1828, to his
friend Mr. Illingworth, at Santa Fe     took part of the unfortunate crews,
de Bogota, ` very little foul weather,  and we took the remainder, having
                                        met us near where they were taken
and were several days becalmed          up. To attempt any description of

amongst the islands; which so           my feelings on witnessing such a
far was extremely fortunate, for a
                                        scene would be useless. You will
few degrees farther north the most
                                        Inot be surprised to know that felt
tremendous gales were blowing; and      Isomewhat uneasy when recollected
they appear (from our subsequent        Ithat was so far from England, and
information) to have wrecked every
vessel exposed to their violence, of    that we might also be wrecked.'
which we had two appalling ex           Farther particulars of this tragedy,
                                        it may be added, have been obtained
amples as we sailed north. VVe took
on board the wrecks of two crews        from Robert Stephenson's fellow
who were floating about in dis
                                        passengers.

1827.]  - A STORM AT SEA.  107

land, when about midnight the vessel struck and instantly
began to fill. The wind blew a hurricane, and the deck
was crowded- with desperate people, to whom death
within gunshot of land appeared more dreadful than
perishing in the open sea. The masts and rigging were cut
away, but no good was gained by the measure. Sur

rounded by broken water, the vessel began to break up,
whilst the sea ran so high that it was impossible to put
off `the boats. By morning, however, the storm lulled,

and with dawn the passengers were got ashore.

    Robert Stephenson and his companions naturally pushed
forward in the scramble to get places in the boat which

was the first to leave the sinking ship; and they had
succeeded in pushing their way to the ladder, when the
mate of the vessel threw them back, and singled out for

the vacant places a knot of humble passengers who stood
just behind them. The chief of the party was a petty
trader of Carthagena. He was, moreover, a second-class
passenger, well known to be without those gifts of fortune
which might have made it worth a mate's while to render
him especial service.

    On the return of the boat, Robert Stephenson had better

luck, and by 8 o'clock A.M. he was landed, safe and sound,
on the wished-for shore. Not a life was lost of either

passengers or crew: but when Stephenson and his com
panions found themselves in New York, they had lost

all their luggage, and almost all their money. A col

lection of mineral specimens, on which he had spent
much time and labour, was luckily preserved: but he
lost a complete cabinet of the entomological curiosities
of Colombia, and the box containing his money, on which
his fellow-travellers were dependent.

108  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL VII.

    Fortunately, he found no difficulty in obtaining money
in New York. He was therefore in a position to pro
ceed homewards without delay ; but as he was in America
he determined to see a little of the country, and to pay
a visit to Canada before crossing the Atlantic for Great

Britain. At New York Trevithick bade him farewell;
but Mr. Gerard, the two Monteleagres, and Mr. Empson,

agreed to accompany him on a pedestrian excursion
from New York over the border to Montreal.

    This arrangement made, Robert Stephenson said fare
well to the captain in whose ship he had made the un

fortunate passage from Carthagena, and on parting with him

asked if he could account for the mate's conduct when the

Ipassengers were leaving the vessel. ` am the more at a

loss to find the reason for his treatment of me,' he observed,

I` because on the voyage we were very good friends.'

` Well, sir,' answered the captain, ` can let you into the
secret. My mate had no special liking for Mr.----.--,

Iindeed, happen to know he disliked him as strongly as

1-you and the rest of the passengers disliked him. But Mr.
         is a freemason, and so is my mate, and freemasons
are bound by their oath to help their brethren in moments
of peril, or of distress, before they assist persons not of their
fraternity.' The explanation made so impressed Robert

Stephenson that he forthwith became a mason, -- the

master, wardens, and members of the St. Andrew's Lodge
No. 7, constituted under the auspices of the Grand Lodge
of the State of New York, presenting him (September 21,
1827*) with a document under their seal, in which he is

    * They had most probably held one or more Lodges of emergency for the
purpose of passing him through the several degrees.

1827.]  LETTER FROM NEW YORK.  109

styled ` a master-mason of good report, beloved and es

teemed among us.'

    The master-mason then started for his Northern excur

sion. A conservative from his cradle, Robert Stephenson,

during his residence in Colombia, had seen the worst side
of republican institutions. The corruption of the Colom
bian Government was excessive. From high to low, the
bribe and the dagger were regarded as necessary ele
ments of political existence. Of course the venality of
the governing classes and the servility of the mob were

produced by the system that preceded the revolution,
quite as much as by the revolution itself. But however

they may be accounted for, young Stephenson, naturally
averse to liberalism in politics, saw the worst vices of

corrupt despotism openly defended and practised by the

champions of popular opinions. It was natural that he

should leave South America with yet stronger opinions
in favour of vigorous monarchical government. What
he saw in North America did not tend to modify his

views.

   On entering New York (he wrote to Mr. Illingworth) we felt
ourselves quite at home. All outward appearances of things
and persons were indicative of English manners and customs;

but on closer investigation we soon discovered the characteristic

impudence of the people. In many cases it was nothing short

of disgusting. We stayed but a short time in the city, and
pushed into the interior for about 500 miles, and were much
delighted with the face of the country, which in every direction

is populated to a great extent, and affords to an attentive

observer a wonderful example of human industry; and it is
gratifying to a liberal-minded Englishman to observe how far
the sons of his own-country have outstripped the other European
powers which have transatlantic possessions.

110  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL VII.

    We visited the Falls of Niagara, which did not surprise me so
much as the Tequindama. Their magnitude is certainly pro
digious; but there is not so much minute beauty about them as

the Salta.

   After seeing all that our time would permit in the States.
we passed over into Canada, which is far behind the States in
everything. The people want industry and enterprise. Every
Englishman, however partial he may be, is obliged to confess

Ithe disadvantageous contrast. Whether the cause exists in the

people or the system of government cannot say--perhaps it
rests with both.

    The expedition was made on foot, Robert Stephenson
and his companions having with them no apparel save

what they wore and one change of linen. A picture,

painted in 1828, represents the young man as he ap
peared en route from New York to Montreal, hahited in
the variegated poncho which he ordinarily wore in
Colombia, and holding in his hand a straw paramatta hat
with an enormous brim.

   One feature of the rural population of the State of
New York greatly delighted him. Their hospitality was
only bounded by their means. Unknown, and appa
rently poor, wherever the pedestrians halted they were
welcomed to bed and board, and could only rarely in
duce their entertainers, who usually were little farmers,
or storekeepers, to accept payment for their services.

Often after receiving them for the night, a farmer brought
out his light wagon, and drove them ten or fifteen miles
on their way, and then said good-bye to them, declining
remuneration for his entertainment, his time, and the

wear of his hickory springs.

   At Montreal he threw aside his Colombian dress, and,

equipping himself in the ordinary costume of an English

1825.] LIVERPOOL AND MANCHESTER RAILWAY BILL. 111

gentleman, went into the best society of the city. After
attending a succession of balls and routs given by the
colonial dignitaries, he returned to New York, and with
his four companions and a servant took his passage to
Liverpool in a first-class packet --` the Pacific.'

   At Liverpool he found his father settled in a comfortable

house, and superintending the construction of the railway
then in progress between that place and Manchester.
The years of Robert Stephenson's absence had been
years of stern trial to George Stephenson, turning his
hair prematurely white, and biting deep lines in his
countenance. On September 27, 1825, more than
twelve months after Robert's departure for America, the

Stockton and Darlington Railway was opened with proper
ceremony. The line had been worked with satisfactory
results, but still the employment of locomotives on its
rails was regarded as little more than an interesting ex

periment. It was not till the Liverpool and Manchester

line was near completion that the real struggle for the

use of the locomotive commenced. In the meantime

George Stephenson had hard work to maintain his
position in the engineering world. The defeat of the

Liverpool and Manchester Railway Bill in the June of
1825--a defeat due in a great degree to serious mistakes

made by the engineer's assistants in taking the levels for
the proposed line--had for a time a most injurious
effect on his prospects. Writing to Robert, November 1,
 1825, Mr. Longridge observed

  IRailways still continue the fashion, though am sorry to add

that your father has not that share of employment which his

talents merit. It is expected the Liverpool and Manchester

Bill will pass this session ; perhaps an Amended Act will after

112      LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                   [CIL VII.

wards be procured. The Newcastle and Carlisle Railway Bill
will not be brought into parliament until another year. Your
father has been employed by the party who oppose this railway,
and in examining the line has found greater errors in the levels
Ithan were committed by his assistants in the Liverpool Road.
Robert! my faith in engineers is wonderfully shaken.  hope

I Iwhen you return to us your accuracy will redeem their cha
racter.  feel anxious for your return, and think that you will

find both your father and your friend considerably older than

when you left us.

   Of the letters which Robert Stephenson received
from England whilst he was in Colombia, the majority
contained words that caused him lively uneasiness for
his father, who was struggling hard to recover ground
which had been lost chiefly through the blunders of his
subordinates. In 1826 permission was obtained to lay
down the Liverpool and Manchester line, and George

Stephenson was appointed engineer-in-chief to the under

taking, with a salary of £1,000 a year. It was said by

his enemies, and was also thought by some of his friends,
that his success in getting the post was only the forerunner
of his ruin. Whilst the result of the attempt to make
the line across Chat-Moss was a matter of doubt, George
Stephenson was generally regarded as being on his trial;
and he well knew that in accordance with the success or
failure of that attempt, he would be proclaimed a man of

stupendous genius, or an ignorant and impudent quack.
    With his own profession George Stephenson set himself

right sooner than with the public at large. On February
 28, 1827, Locke, writing to Robert Stephenson, said--

   ISince last wrote you, many circumstances, at that time highly

 improbable, have occurred; and that shade which was unfortu
 nately cast on the fame of your father has disappeared, and

1827 RETURN TO ENGLAND.                                 113

the place which he must often have reflected on with pain is
now such a scene of operations as sheds lustre on his character,

and will no doubt immortalise his name. All our Directors

are unanimous in placing the utmost confidence in him, which

is certainly the best proof of their good opinion.

Before Roberts arrival in Liverpool at the end of

November in the same year, the shade had indeed

passed from George Stephenson's fame, and the father

and son were able to exchange words of triumphant con

gratulation as well as of afiection.
IfIt was a happy meeting.
                           the events of the preceding

three years had whitened George Stephenson's locks, and

given him at forty-six years of age the aspect of advanced

life, his head and heart were still young. On the other

hand, his son had changed from a .raw Northumbrian
lad into a polished gentleman, having, at an age when

many young men of the upper ranks of English life are

still shirking college lectures and lounging about clubs

and theatres, reaped the advantages of extended travel:

continued mental exertion, and intercourse with men

widely differing in rank, nationality, and experience.

The friend who had shared the perils and trials of

Robert's American life became a guest in George Stephen

son's house at Liverpool. When the young men awoke

on the morning after their arrival they found on their

dressing-tables two handsome watches, which had been

placed there whilst they were asleep. In this manner

George Stephenson made good a part of the losses they

had sustained through the shipwreck.

Robert Stephenson had too much business on his hands

to think of making a long stay at Liverpool. With all

speed he went up to London, and had an interview

VOL. I.  I

114  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                     [OIL VII.

with the Directors of the Colombian Mining Associa

tion, who received him with gratifying expressions of

respect. Though he had ceased to preside over their

interests in South America, they pressed him to con

tinue to give them counsel as to their future operations.

In London he was quickly immersed in business, in

specting machinery, and entering into contracts for the

house of `Robert Stephenson and Co.' In connection

with a contract and negotiations entered into with a

foreign house he found it necessary to visit Brussels

in December 1827. The journey was purely one of

business; an excursion to Waterloo being almost the

only diversion he permitted himself during the trip.
Christmas Day he spent in London; but with the new

year he was in Newcastle, which for the next five

years was his head-quarters, superintending the factory,

and originating, or developing, those improvements in

the structure of the locomotive which raised it to its

present efficiency from the unsatisfactory position it

held at the opening of the Stockton and Darlington line.

     The following letter, written to Mr. Longridge from

Liverpool on New Year's Day 1828, will show how oc

cupied the writer's mind was with the possibility of im
                                                                                                                       i

proving the locomotive.

                                                                 Liverpool: January 1, 1828.

     IMY DEAR SIR,-- On my arrival here last Thursday received

I Iyour letter containing the notice of the Darlington meeting on
the 5th instant, which. will attend at your request.  had

hoped that my father would accompany me to the north this

time, but he finds that all his attention must be devoted to this

Iroad * alone.
       have just returned from a ride along the line for seven

     * i. e. the Liverpool and Manchester Railway.

1827.]  RETURN TO NEWCASTLE.                   115

Imiles, in which distance have not been a little surprised to
Ifind excavations of such magnitude. Since came down from
ILondon, have been talking a great deal to my father about

endeavouring to reduce the size and ugliness of our travelling

engines, by applying the engine either on the side of the boiler

Ior beneath it entirely, somewhat similarly to Gurney's steam
coach. He has agreed to an alteration which    think will

considerably reduce the quantity of machinery as well as the

liability to mismanagement. Mr. Jos. Pease writes my father

that in their present complicated state they cannot he managed

by `fools,' therefore they must undergo some alteration or

amendment. It is very true that the locomotive engine, or

any other kind of engine, may be shaken to pieces; but such

accidents are in a great measure under the control of engine

men, which are, by the by, not the most manageable class of

beings. They perhaps want improvement as much as the

Iengines.                      left London, except a talk
   There was nothing new when

that the Thames Tunnel was about to be abandoned for want of

funds, which the subscribers had declined- advancing, from the

apparent improbability of the future revenue ever being ade

quate to paying a moderate interest. There are three new

steam-coaches going on with, all much on the same principle

Ias Gurney's.                                  shall have to
   Very shortly after my arrival at Newcastle

set off to Alston Moor to engage some miners, both for the

Colombian and the Anglo-Mexican Association.

   The New Year therefore opened with an abundance
of business for the young engineer.

        I0

116  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL VIII.

                        CHAPTER VIII.

                           RESIDENCE IN NEWCASTLE.

                                                 (znrxr. 24-26.)

     State of the Locomotive in 1828--Efl-orts to improve the Loco

    motive -- The Reports of Messrs. Walker and Rastrick -- A Premium

     of £500 offered by the Directors of the Liverpool and Manchester
     Railway for the best Locomotive--Mr. Henry Booth's Invention
     of the Multitubular B0iler----Commencement of the `Rocket' Steam
     Engine--A Tunnel across the Mersey--Survey for a Junction Line
     between the Bolton - and Leigh and Liverpool and Manchester
     Railways-- Survey for Branch Line from the Liverpool and Man
     chester Railway to Warring-ton--Robert Stephenson's Love Afiairs--
     His Accesi to Society in Liverpool and London--Miss Fanny
      Sa.nderson--Pr0p0sal that Robert Stephenson should live at Bed
     l-ington--Mr. Richardson's Expostulati0ns--No. 5 Greenfield Place
    The Sofa it la mode -- Marriage.

THE great and immediate work before Robert Stephen--

       son, when at the opening of 1828 he once more
took up his residence in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, was to
raise the efiiciency of the locomotive so that, on the com
pletion of the Liverpool and Manchester line, it should
be adopted by the directors as the motive power of
their railway. At that time the prospects of the loco
motive were most discouraging. The speed of five or
six miles per hour attained on the Killingworth and
Darlington lines by no means justified an enthusiastic

support of the travelling engines. It was true that they

had not been built with a view to speed, but for the

1828.]  QUESTION OF THE USE OF LOCOMOTIVES.     . 117

purpose of obtaining cheap carriage for coals. Indeed,

not many years before, the problem had been to make
them move at all. But progression having been accom
plished, the next thing was to increase their powers.

   N0 engineer questioned the possibility of improving

the locomotive; but improvement comes slowly, when
each experiment leading to it costs several hundreds of
pounds. No railway company could be asked to pay
for costly trials. That they would use the new machine
when inventors and manufacturers had made it a

serviceable power was all that could be expected of
the directors of railways. As for the public at large,
there was amongst all ranks a general opposition to the
new method of conveyance. Dislike to novelty, and
suspicion of a system not perfectly understood, com
bined to make enemies for the locomotive. So far was

this the case that, notwithstanding the commercial suc

cess of the Stockton and Darlington Railway, the Bill

for the Newcastle and Carlisle line was obtained in 1829,

only on condition that horses, and not locomotives, should

be used in working it.

The proprietary of the Liverpool and Manchester

Railway shared largely in feelings which were almost

universal with the less enlightened multitude.  In

October 1828, a deputation of the directors visited Dar

lington and the neighbourhood of Newcastle to inspect

the locomotives, and come to a conclusion as to the

advisability of employing them between Liverpool and

Manchester. `By this journey,' says Mr. Booth, the

treasurer and historian of the Company, ` one step was

gained. The deputation was convinced, that for the

immense traffic to be anticipated on the Liverpool and

118      LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL VH1.

Manchester line, horses were out of question. -The de

batable ground being thus' narrowed, how was the re

maining point to be decided? Was a capital of £100,000

to be invested in stationary engines, or were locomotives
to be adopted? '

     Whilst this question was under discussion, and for

several months preceding the October trip just mentioned,

Robert Stephenson had been racking his brains to settle

another and much more important matter -- How to im

prove the locomotive? how to increase at the same time

its power and speed? It was as clear to him, as it had

been to his father, that above all things it was requisite
to increase in the locomotive the capability of rapidly

generating steam. Sufificient heat, with adequate means

for rapidly applying that heat to the water, was the

desideratum. Eventually the multitubular boiler and the

steam-blast of the ` Rocket ' gave the required conditions;

but previous to their attainment, Robert and his father

made numerous failures in attempting to build a really

satisfactory travelling engine.
   To increase the heating surface, they introduced into

the boilers of two engines made for the St. Etienne

Railway small tubes that contained water; but the

scheme was futile--the tubes soon becoming furred with

deposit and burning out. In other engines they with the

same object inserted two flues, each with a separate fire.

On this principle was constructed ` The Twin Sisters'

--the name being suggested by the tubes. A third

.method adopted was to return the tube through the

boiler.  A fourth plan--in which may be perceived a
nearer   approach to the multitubular system -- was

adopted in a boiler made, at the beginning of 1828,

1828.]  THE MULTITUBULAR BOILER.       119

with two small tubes branching off from the main

flue. The sketch for this last engine was sent from

Liverpool by George Stephenson to his son on January 8,

1828, and in the postscript the sanguine father says-
` The small tubes will not require to be so strong as the

other parts of the boiler, and you must take care that

you have no thick plates and thin ones, as is often the

case with those which come from Bedlington. You must

calculate that this engine will be for all the engineers in

the kingdom -- nay, indeed, the w0rld- to loole at.'

   During his residence at Liverpool, George Stephenson
had the great advantage of close personal intimacy with

Mr. Booth, the treasurer of the Liverpool and Manchester

Railway. Mr. Booth was not only an enthusiastic advo

cate of the locomotive, but he had a strong natural

taste for mechanics, and would probably have distin

guished himself had he made engineering a pursuit

a

   I
                                               is,
                                                    it
                                                                    is
                                              I
instead of a pastime. As it the multitubular boiler,

as practical agent, must be attributed to him, what

ever may be the merit due to such claimants as M. Seguin

and Mr. Stevens. Mr. Booth was consulted on all the

plans introduced by the Stephensons, and his name

continually appears in the letters which passed between

the father and son. Writing to Robert, on January 31,

1828, George, referring to the experiment then in hand,
says--` With respect to the engine for Liverpool,

think the boiler ought not to be longer than eight feet.

The engine ought to be made light, as  intended to

run fast. Mr. Booth and myself think two chimneys

would be better than one, say eight inches in diameter

and not to exceed fifteen feet.' In conclusion the father

adds--` trust the locomotive engine will be pushed.

120  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.        [CIL VIII.

- IIts answering is the most important thing to you, and
recollect what a number we shall want  should think

thirty.'

   On April 15, 1828, George Stephenson, still sanguine

as to the result of the boiler with diverging tubes, wrote
to Robert--

  I am quite aware that the bent tubes are a complicated job

to make, but after once in and well done it cannot be any com
plication in the working of the engine. This bent tube is a
child of your own, which you stated to me in a former letter.
The interior of a watch looks complicated, but when once well

Ifit up, there needs very little more trouble for one hundred

years, and expect the engine you are fitting up will be some
thing similar to this watch with respect to its working parts.

   Five days later George Stephenson, with regard to this
same engine, wrote a letter to his son, which is important,
as it bears on a question that has been a subject of much
warm controversy amongst engineers..

                                                                   Liverpool: April 20, 1828.

I DEAR ROBERT,--I duly received yours dated the 16th inst.
   do not think there can be much difficulty in cleaning the

Irefuse matter of the fire from the locomotive-engine boiler.
  would make the nozzle pipe that goes in from the blast to be
a kind of grating rather than of a conical shape, and to project
about two feet into the fire. The grating to be on the upper
side. The nozzle piece to be made with a flange, fitting very
nicely to the plate at the front of the fire to prevent the escape
of air, and kept on by a bolt and cotter, or two screw-bolts.

IThis nozzle piece could easily be taken out at any time and the

fire cleaned at the hole. This think may be done while the

engine is working upon an easy part of the road. It appears to

me it will be found better to feed one time with coke and the

Inext with coal. think the one would revive the other.
  I do not think there can be so much difiiculty in firing on

this plan as on the old one.

1828.]       USE OF COKE FOR BOILERS.  121

  If you wish me to see the boiler tried before it is put into its
Iseat will endeavour to come.

  If this new engine is found to answer, it will be the bestway

to alter all the Darlington engines to the same plan. By doing
so the last engine will not be found too heavy for the road.

   This engine with the bent tubes, like other attempts
made in that year to improve the locomotive, was a
failure. Time was running short; the period for opening
the new line was fast approaching, and yet George
Stephenson and his son had not hit on the way to build

such an engine as should sweep the ground from under
the advocates of stationary machines.

   `Writing from Liverpool to Mr. Longridge at the close
of the year 1828, Robert communicated the success attend
ing the result of his new boiler made to burn coke.

                                       . Liverpool Railway Oflice: Dec. 1, 1828.

IMY DEAR SIR,--- It was arranged that should leave this

Iplace to-morrow, but the directors of the Liverpool and

Manchester have resolved to-day that my father and are to

meet the deputation which was recently in the north, and enter

Iinto detailed calculations relative to the much-contested question

of locomotive and stationary engines. Since wrote you last

we have had my new boiler tried at Laird's Boiler Manufactory

in Cheshire. You are probably aware that this boiler was made

to burn coke. The experiment was completely successful

indeed, exceeded my expectations. Six of the directors went

the other day to witness a second experiment. They were all per

fectly satisfied. The enemies to the locomotives . . . . said the

experiment had answered to the fullest extent. The boilers were

Ishipped to-day in the steam-boat via Carlisle, from which place

they will be forwarded to Newcastle. . . . . have had two

letters from Forman about the locomotive engine, and he has

given us the order at last, but nothing can be done to it until
I reach the manufactory.
I am really as anxious to be at Newcastle again as you can be
Ito see me.  cannot say that I like Liverpool. Do not answer

122             LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.         [CIL VIII.

    I's letter until see you, as he has left me one also, full of
Isuch.close queries on engineering that rather hesitate giving

him the information in such an offhand manner as he calculates

Iupon.
      am much pleased that you are interesting yourself in the

suit of Locomotive versus Stationary. It is a subject worthy

Iof your aid and best wishes; but you must bear in mind,
wishes alone won't do. Ellis has got settled, and  have

Igot up a proposal in my father's name, which is now before the
directors of the Canterbury Railway Co.  expect at a general

meeting next Thursday, which will be held at Canterbury, they
Iwill decide upon it.  cannot explain it fully in a letter, and
I Itherefore defer it till see you.
                                     have thanked Mr. Booth as

you requested.

   In January 1829, Mr. James Walker, then of Li1nc
house,and Mr. James Urpeth Rastrick, then of Stourbridge,

were commissioned by the Liverpool and Manchester

Railway directors to visit Darlington and the Newcastle

country, and report to them on the advantages and
disadvantages of the locomotive system. Mr. Walker and
Mr. Rastrick were practical engineers of high reputation;
and they conscientiously discharged the duties which they
undertook. The `task assigned them was not to argue
on the possibility or probability of speedy improve
ments in the locomotive. They were to inspect the
travelling engines, observe their capabilities, and judge
them as they were, not as they might or would be.
On the Stockton and Darlington line the two commis
sioners fo11I1(I locomotives travelling at paces varying

between four and six miles an hour. An engine weighing,

with its tender, fifteen tons, would drag twenty-three and a

half tons' weight of carriages, containing forty-seven and
three-quarters tons of goods, at the rate of five miles per
hour. So much, and no more, could the locomotive of

1829.]     LOCOMOTIVE AND STATIONARY ENGINES.                                                 I

                                                                                               123

1829 accomplish. Of course Messrs. Walker and Rastrick

well knew that the locomotive was in its infancy. Still

they had to concern themselves with the present, and not

the future. On March 9, they delivered in their separate

reports, which recommended the adoption of stationary

engines.*                               -

Robert Stephenson strongly disapproved the -reports

He saw in them an obstacle. raised to the success of

the locomotive, upon which the extension of the railway

system depended. Writing to a friend on March 11,

two days after the delivery of the hostile reports, he

said_`The report of Walker and Rastrick has been

received, but it is in favour of fixed engines. We are

Ipreparing for a counter-report in favour of locomotives,

which believe still will ultimately get the day, but from

present appearances nothing decisive can be said: rely

   " In his summary of these reports    trafiic both ways. But with systemit a
Mr. Booth says: `The advantages         of locomotives the cost of the first
                                                                                           a
and disadvantages of each system,       establishment need only be propor
as far as deduced from their own        tioned to the demands of trade, while
                                        with stationary engines an outlay for
immediate observation, were fully
and fairly stated, and, in the opinion     complete establishment would be
of the engineers themselves, were       required in the first instance. And
pretty equally balanced. The cost
                                            was further to be considered that
of an establishment of fixed engines
                                        there appeared more ground for ex
between Liverpool and Manchester,
they were of opinion, would be          pecting improvements in the con
something greater than of locomo
tives to do the same work; but the      struction and working of locomotives,
                                        than of stationary engines. On the
annual charye, including interest on
                                        whole, however, and looking espe
capital, they computed would be         cially at the computed annual charge
less on a system of fixed engines       of working the road on the two
than with locomotives. The cost of
moving a ton of goods thirty miles,     systems on a large scale, Messrs.
that from Liverpool to Manchester,      Walker and Rastrick were of opinion
by fixed engines, they estimated at     that fixed engines were preferable,

G-40d., and by locomotives at 8-36d.,   and accordingly recommended their
supposing in each case profitable
is,                                     adoption to the directors.'--.Hem~_1/
                                   a    1?00th's Account.

124               LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                 [OIL VIII.

upon  it,       locomotives shall not be cowardly given up.  of I

will fight for them until the last. They are worthy.         a

conflict.'

   The `battle of the locomotive' had indeed begun,

and Robert Stephenson was fighting bravely in the con

test; but with characteristic prudence he postponed his

counter-statement to  triumphant course of counter
                  a
                                   a

                                                         a
action. It was no time for words, at least for words in

the shape of paper controversy. Amongst the directors
there was, in spite of the reports, strong party, not
majority, in favour of the locomotive. Led by Mr.
Booth, and influenced by the enthusiasm of their chief
                                                             if

                                                                         a

engineer, they gave the most liberal interpretation to the
admission of Messrs. Walker and Rastrick, that there was

ground for expecting improvements in the construction
and work of locomotives.' Would not be well, they
      `

                                  a
                                                       a

                                                   it
asked, to stimulate inventors by premium to make the
expected improvements in time for the opening of the

line? The consequence was that on April 20, 1829,
the directors offered premium of £500 for an im

proved locomotive engine. The following circular an
nounced the conditions and stipulations of the offer :--

                                            Railway Office, Liverpool: April 25, 1829.of it

SrIrnmrIous and CONDITIONS on which the Directors of the  a
   Liverpool and Manchester Railway offer Premium of £500
   for the most improved Locomotive Engine.

    1st. The said engine must `effectually consume its own
smoke,' according to the provisions of the Railway Act, 7th

Geo. IV.
  2nd. The engine, if weighs six tons, must be capable of

drawing after it, day by day, on a well-constructed railway, on
a level plane, a train carriages of the gross weight of twenty

1829.] PREMIUM FOR IMPROVED LOCOMOTIVES.  125

tons, including the tender and water tank, at the rate of ten
miles per hour, with a pressure of steam in the boiler not
exceeding 50 lbs. on the square inch.

   3rd. There must be two safety valves, one of which must be
completely out of the reach or control of the engine-man, and
neither of which must be fastened down while the engine is
working.

   4th. The engine and boiler must be supported on springs,
and rest on six wheels; and the height from the ground to the
top of the chimney must not exceed fifteen feet.

   5th. The weight of the machine, with its complement of
water in the boiler, must, at most, not exceed six tons; and a

machine of less weight will be preferred, if it draw after it a
proportionate weight; and if the weight of the engine, &c., do

not exceed five tons, then the gross weight to be drawn need not
exceed fifteen tons; and in that proportion for machines of still
smaller weight--provided that the engine, &c., shall still be on

six wheels, unless the weight (as above) be reduced to four tons
and a half, or under, in which case the boiler, &c., may be placed
upon four wheels. And the Company shall be at liberty to put
the boiler, fire-tube, cylinders, &c., to the test of a pressure of
water, not exceeding 150 lbs. per square inch, without being
answerable for any damage the machine may receive in conse

quence.
    6th. There must be a mercurial gauge affixed to the machine,

with index rod, showing the steam pressure above 45 lbs. per
square inch, and constructed to blow out a pressure of 60 lbs.

per inch.
    7th. The engine to be delivered complete for trial at the

Liverpool end of the railway not later than the 1st of October

next.

   8th. The price of the engine which may be accepted, not to
exceed £3550, delivered on the railway; and any engine not
approved to be taken back by the owner.

   N.B.--The Railway Company will provide the engine tender
with a supply of water and fuel for the experiment. The
distance within the rails is four feet eight inches and a half.

   Never was premium more opportunely offered. It

126  LITE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.        [CIL VIII?

set engineers throughout the kingdom on the alert.

Now was the time for a house to put itself at the head of
Ifthe trade.
              an efificient locomotive could be produced

at the crisis, locomotives would be universally accepted

as the tractive power for iron roads; and the manufac

turers who should produce the engine would, for years to

come, have a monopoly of the best business throughout

Europe. Robert Stephenson was keenly alive to the

nature of the contest. Throwing aside his unfinished

criticism of ` the reports ' of Messrs. Walker and Rastrick

till a more convenient time, the young engineer grappled
with the task before him. As he walked from ` the

works ' to his lodgings, he racked his brains with thinking

what ought to be done. At times he was despondent.

He had so often felt triumph in the belief that he had dis

covered how to increase the heating surface of the boiler,

and keep an ever-glowing and fierce furnace in the fire-box.

As often he had been disappointed. The last fifteen months

of his Newcastle labour had been an unbroken series of ap

parent victories followed by actual defeat. He wrote to his

father ; and for weeks George Stephenson held an ominous

silence. One morning, however, Robert received a mo

mentous budget from Liverpool-a design for a new

engine and a letter from his father. The design was the
original sketch, drawn by Mr. T. L. Gooch, of the multi

tubular boiler.* The letter explained the scheme, viz.

to pass heated air, current from the furnace, through nu

    " VVhen Mr. Smiles was engaged     Stephenson's characteristic modesty
on his biography of George Stephen
son, Robert Stephenson gave him        in passing over, without a word, his
the following account of the origin
of the Multitubular Boiler. The        share in the undertaking.
reader will not fail to remark Robert     ` After the opening of the Stockton

                                       and Darlington, and before that of
                                       the Liverpool and Manchester, Rail

1829.]  THE MULTITUBULAR BOILER.        127

merous small tubes fitted in the boiler and surrounded
with water, and thus, by offering to the water an ex

way, my father directed his attention   engine, we have in the multitubular
to various methods of increasing the
evaporative power of the boiler of      boiler the only important principle
the locomotive engine. Amongst          of construction introduced in addi

other attempts he introduced tubes      tion to those which my father had
(as had before been done in other       brought to bear at a very early age
engines), small tubes containing
                                        (between 1815 and 1821) on the
water, by which the heating surface     Killingworth Colliery Railway. In
was naturally increased. Two en         the "Rocket" engine, the power of
gines with such tubes were con          generating steam was prodigiously
structed for the St. Etienne Railway,   increased by the adoption of the
in France, which was in progress of     multitubular system. Its efiiciency
construction in the year 1828; but      was further augmented by narrowing
the expedient was not successful; the   the orifice by which the waste steam
tubes became furred with deposit,       escaped into the chimney; for by
                                        this means the velocity of the air in
and burned out.                         the chimney--or, in other words,
                                        the draught of the fire--was in
   `Other engines with boilers of a
                                        creased to an extent that far sur
variety of construction, were made,
all having in view the increase of      passed the expectations even of those
the heating surface, as it then be      who had been the authors of the

came obvious to my father that the      combination.
speed of the engine could not be in
                                           `From the date of running the
creased without increasing the eva      "Rocket" on the Liverpool and
porative power of the boiler. Increase  Manchester Railway, the locomotive

of surface was in some cases obtained   engine has received many minor im
                                        provements in detail, and especially
by inserting two tubes, each contain    in accuracy of workmanship ; but in
                                        no essential particular does the ex
ing a separate fire, into the boiler.
                                        isting locomotive differ from that
In other cases the same result was      which obtained the prize of the cele
                                        brated competition at Rainhill.
obtained by returning the same tube
through the boiler. But it was not         ` In this instance, as in every other
until he was engaged in making          important step in science of art,
some experiments, during the pro
gress of the Liverpool and Manches      various claimants have arisen for the
ter Railway, in conjunction with        merit of having suggested the mul
Mr. Henry Booth, the well-known         titubular boiler as a means of ob
secretary of the Company, that any      taining the necessary heating surface.
decided movement in this direction      Whatever may be the value of their

was elfected, and that the present      respective claims, the public, useful,
multitubular boiler assumed a prac      and extensive application of the in
                                        vention, must certainly date from
ticable shape. It was in conjunction    the experiments made at Rainhill.
                                        M. Seguin, for whom engines had
with Mr. Booth that my father con
structed the "Rocket" engine.

  `At this stage of the locomotive

128  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.        [OIL VIII.

tensive heating surface, obtain the means of generating

steam with unprecedented rapidity.

   At length the problem had been solved. Robert

Stephenson immediately was in correspondence with his

father as to the details of the new undertaking. It was

determined that twenty-four copper tubesshould be in
serted in the boiler of the new engine, each tube being

of a diameter of three inches. In subsequent engines

the heating surface was increased with great effect by

reducing the size of the tubes, and doubling and even

trebling their number. A point, however, was soon

reached, where the diminution of the tubes, although

it increased the extent of heating surface, had the evil

consequence of diminishing the draught from the fire

box to the chimney.*

been made by my father some few        taken from ` Tredgold on the Steam

years previously, states that he pa    Engine.'
tented a similar multitubular boiler
                                          `By causing all the flame and
in France several years before. A
                                       heated air to pass through a great
still prior claim is made by Mr.       number of small tubes surrounded
Stevens, of New York, who was all
but a rival to Mr. Fulton in the in    by the water, a very great and rapid
                                       means of heating the water is ob
troduction of steam-boats on the
                                       tained, as a very large heated surface
American rivers. It is stated that     is thus exposed to the water. The
                                       first locomotive engines had merely
as early as 1807 he used a multi       a large flue passing from the fire
tubular boiler. These claimants may
                                       place to the chimney. It was bent
be all entitled to great and inde
pendent merit; but certain it is that  round at the end and returned again
the perfect establishment of the suc   to the back, the chimney being placed
cess of the multitubular boiler is     at the same end as the fireplace.
                                       The fire was contained in the com
more immediately due to the sug
gestion of Mr. Henry Booth, and to     mencement of the flue, which was
my father's practical knowledge in     made larger for the purpose. This
carrying it out.'                      is the general principle of the con
                                       struction of the boilers for stationary
    * Unprofessional readers may like  engines, where the size and weight
                                       of the boiler are not of so much im
to glance at the following lucid
explanation of the structure and       portance, and the flues can be made

rationale of the multitubular boiler,

    1829.] CONSTRUCTION OF THE `ROCKET' ENGINE.                                             129

    - Robert Stephenson was soon busy at work on the new
    engine, afterwards famous under the name of ` The

    large enough to get a suffioient area     them doubled and trebled, by which
    of heated surface in contact with
                                              means the heating surface was very

    the water. But as in a locomotive         much increased, and with               is it  the

    engine all the machinery has to be        power of the engine. The smaller

    moved at a great velocity, the size       the tubes are, the greater                    the

    and weight of the boiler are obliged      heating surface obtained, as small

    to be diminished very much, and           circles have much larger circum
                                              if
    some other means has to be adopted        ference in proportion to their area
                                                                      a
to obtain the requisite heating sur           than large ones. But when the

face.                                         tubes are diminished in size, the

   ` The " Rocket " engine, made by           total area of passage through them

Mr. R. Stephenson, which was the              from the fire-box to the chimney              is

engine that gained the prize for the          also diminished; and consequently
best locomotive at the opening of
the Liverpool and Manchester Rail             the diameter of the tubes were
way in 1829, was the first engine
made with tubes in this country.              much diminished, the draught of

   ` The former locomotives, with             the fire would be checked from the

                                              passage to the chimney being too

                                              small. The heating power of the

    only a flue through the boiler, had       boiler would thusbe injured, although

    never been able to travel faster than     the amount of heating surface ex

    about eight miles an hour, as they        posed to the water was increased,
    had not sufficient heating surface in
                                              and the abstraction of the heat from

    the boiler to generate steam for sup      the hot air more perfect     .         . ..
    plying the cylinders more rapidly;                                        .      .
                                                                                  .     .

                                              The tubes open into the upper
                                              `
    the speed attainable by a locomotive      part of the smoke-box, and the hot
                                                  is is
    being limited only by the quantity                   itair passes from them up the chimney.
                                                              is is is is
    of steam that can be generated in a       No smoke                   produced, except at
    given time. The introduction of
                                              first lighting the fire, as the fuel
    tubes into the boiler is one of the
                                              used  coke, which does not cause

    greatest improvements that has been       any smoke in burning, but only                a
    made in the construction of loco
                                              light dust. The height of the chim

    motives, and was the cause of the         ney obliged to be small, as can
    superiority of the " Rocket" engine                                              it

                                              never exceed 14 feet height from

    to those that competed with     it,  and  the rails; so that the draught pro

    to all former engines. The velocity       duced by                   not at all sufiicient to

` itattained at the competition trial         urge the fire to the intense degree of

was 29 miles an hour, and the average         ignition that necessary to produce

    14} miles an hour.              "         steam at the pressure and in the
         The tubes of the
                           "Rocket       en   quantity that required, and some

gine were three inches in diameter,           other more powerful means has,

and only twenty-four in number. In            therefore, to be adopted to produce
                                              the draught. This done by making
the engines made subsequently the                                          is
                                                                                                        a
size was reduced, and the number of           the waste steam issue through

      VOL.  I.

130  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                    [GIL VIII.

Rocket,' which won the £500 premium offered by the
directors of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway.

   The young engineer had, however, other objects of
interest besides the locomotive, in 1828 and 1829.

   In the early part of 1828 he was busy constructing ma

chinery for the Colombian Mining Association, and en
gaging workmen for the mines. In the same year also
he afforded his father personal assistance in superintending
some of the works on the Liverpool and Manchester

Railway. In the March of 1828, he went to Runcorn in

Cheshire to advise on a proposed tunnel under the

Mersey. In June he was at Canterbury. A few weeks

later he was making a survey for the junction line
between the Bolton and Leigh and the Liverpool and

Manchester lines. At the same time, also, he was busy

with a survey for the branch line between the Liverpool

and Manchester Railway and Warrington, eventually the
first line constructed under his sole direction and manage

pipe, called the blast-pipe, which is                   running fast, an almost constantis
                                                   current of steam in the chimneyis
directed into the centre of the chim               produced, and the interval between
                                                   the blasts can scarcely be perceived.is
ney, and is gradually contracted                   By this method the fire not blown,               it,
                                                   as usual, by forcing air into but
throughout its length to make the                  by extracting the air from the flues                    is
steam rush out with more force.                    and drawing air through the fire.

This pipe is made of copper one                    In the first locomotives no means

eighth of an inch thick, and is 3}                 were used for increasing the draught
inches in diameter inside at the bot               of the chimney, and their power of
                                                   generating steam was consequently
tom where it joins on to the cylin                 very. limited. The introduction of
                                                   the steam-blast for urging the fire,
ders, and tapers to 2% inches at the               and of the tubes for conveying the
                                                   air through the water, are the prin
top.                                               cipal causes of the great power of
   ` The waste steam rushes out of                 the present locomotives.'--- Tredgold

the pipe with great force up the                   on the Steam En;/ine. Edinburgh,
chimney, carrying the air with
     ;                                             1838.
           a

                                         is
                                              it,
and causing very powerful draught

through the tubes and the fire. A

whole cylinder full of steam  let

out at each stroke, and the two cy

linders deliver their waste steam al

ternately so that when the engine

1828.]           VARIOUS VVORKS IN 1828-9.                                 131

ment. These undertakings were ` the trifles ' with which he
filled up the time left on his hands by the superintendence
of the engine manufactory at Newcastle.

    Sometimes he fretted under the caprices of directors
and projectors, and once or twice he nearly lost his
temper with a ` board.'

   Writing from Liverpool on August 27, 1828, he in

--formed an intimate friend

I had prepared this morning to get my things packed up for

Igoing off to Newcastle to-morrow morning, but there was a

meeting of the directors of a short line of railway which have

got the management of near Bolton. The plans and section had

been previously laid before them with an estimate. To-day they

came to a resolution that, although the line pointed out by the

engineer was the best, they were alarmed at the expense of                 Ia I
                                                                                       a it,
and in consequence ordered fresh survey and section to be
I
      it I

                     I is
                                                     a
made, so as to reduce the expense, even at the risk of having

less advisable line. This one way of doing things, but proud

as am must submit.                                    have tried in my cool and solitary

moments to look with patience on such proceedings, but, by

heavens,  requires a greater store than                    it it I  have.  would
patiently bear this alteration if they did from principle; but

knowing, and indeed hearing, them say from what the alteration

does really spring, cannot but consider                           unworthy of Liver
                 II
pool merchants.    plainly perceive a man can only be man.

As soon as ever he aspires to be anything else he becomes

ridiculous. Come, come, away with moralising thus gloomily.

Affairs go on smoothly in London, at least, the last time heard

from thence, and as have not written anything disrespectful
                 it I
                                    is
since, they cannot have undergone any material change.

   Those who hold that love merely the amusement of
idleness will find difficult to account for the fact that
Robert Stephenson at twenty-five years of age, pressed as
he was with various and weighty afiairs, found leisure
for indulging the tenderest of human affections. His

                                                          K
                                                        2

132       LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.               [CIL VIII.

father and stepmother had early impressed upon him
the advantages of early marriage, and when they endea
voured to withhold him from sailing for Colombia their

arguments concluded with an assurance that he ought to

be thinking of a wife. In his farewell letter from Liver

pool, before starting for South America, he laughingly

promised Mrs. Stephenson to marry as soon as he returned
to England, after the appointed three years of absence.
.In America he of course saw but little of ladies' society.
Beyond an occasional ball at Mariquita he had no means
of becoming acquainted with women more cultivated than

Senora Manuela, the fat negress who presided over the
cuisine of his Santa Ana cottage. His Colombian letters
abound with expressions of dissatisfaction at being thus
isolated from the poetry and refinement of woman's in

fluence.

   On returning to England, he availed himself of every

attainable means of entering society. At Liverpool, as

well as in town, he was well received in the families of

those afiiuent merchants who were interested in the

progress of mechanical science. In many quarters there

was a flattering and not unnatural preference shown for

him over men his superiors in rank and wealth, by ladies

anxious for the establishment of their daughters.
     IIfIn March 1828, writing to a friend, he said : `
                                                         may
Ijudge from appearances am to get the Canterbury Rail

way, which you know is no inconvenient distance from

London. How strange! Nay, why say strange, that all

my arrangements instinctively regard Broad Street as the

pole ?'

   The attraction in Broad Street was Miss Fanny San
derson, the daughter of Mr. John Sanderson, a gentleman

1828.]            MISS FANNY SANDERSON.                     133

of good repute in the City. Robert Stephenson had been

introduced to the young lady before leaving England for

South America, and even at that date he had entertained

for her sentiments which, if not those of love, closely

resembled them. On returning from Colombia, amongst

his first calls made in London he paid a visit to Broad

Street, where he met with a cordial reception from Miss

Sanderson, and an urgent invitation from her father to

be a frequent visitor at his house. He waited some time,

however, before he committed himself to the position of
a suitor. In the October of 1828 he Wrote to a friend,

who was also Miss Sanderson's cousin: `When in London
I met my father by pure chance, and as he remained a
Iday had him introduced to Fanny. He likes her ap
Ipearance, and thinks she looks intelligent.
                                              took him to

the house without her having the most distant idea of

his coming. She did not appear confused, and the visit

passed off extremely well.'
   But it was not till the close of 1828 was near at hand

that Robert Stephenson asked the lady to become his

wife.

Having made his ofi"er and been accepted, Robert Ste

phenson did not wish for a long engagement. Indeed,

there was no reason for deferring the marriage. Mr. Long

ridge was very anxious that the young couple should

settle at Bedlington; and Robert Stephenson so nearly

complied with his partner's wishes, that he arranged to

take a house there, and even made preparations for furnish

ing it. Buttothis plan his father and stepmother as well

as other friends were so averse that he relinquished the

scheme, although the alteration delayed his marriage

for some months.

134  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL VIII.

   At length a suitable house was found--a small and

unassuming dwelling (No. 5 Greenfield Place, Newcastle).
The surrounding land has, during the last thirty years,
been built upon in every direction, and the inhabitants
of Greenfield Place would at the present date look in
vain from their windows for a picturesque landscape, but
when Robert Stephenson took his young bride there, the
outskirts of Newcastle had few more pleasant places.

   Between January and June in 1829, he spent much of
his time in Broad Street. Wherever he was stationed--

at Liverpool or Canterbury or Newcastle --it was to

London that his thoughts turned, and under the pretext
of ` business ' he made frequent visits to the capital. The
visits were brief, but they could scarcely be called flying
visits, as the journeying to and fro had to be effected by
stage-coaches. The men of grave years, given over--
heart, soul, and strength_to business, to whom Robert
Stephenson looked for support, and who had hitherto
regarded him as ` a promising young man,' shook their
heads ominously. Mr. Richardson, taking a paternal
interest in him, even went so far as to reprove him for
wasting on a pair of bright laughing eyes the time that
might be more profitably spent in paying court to the
magnates of Change. Robert Stephenson deemed it
prudent to defend himself against the reproaches of the
worthy quaker, who, after reading the exculpatory epistle,
laid it aside to be kept--but not until he had inserted
at the proper place, ` 3 mo. 31, 1829,'--the giddy lover
(in his sane moments most careful to date his letters, and
mark off with a dash the spot on the outer sheet to be

occupied by a seal) having actually omitted to put down
the date.

1829.]    PREPARATIONS FOR MARRIAGE.                 135

                                   29 Arundel Street, Strand.

   ` DEAR S1R,-- You do me injustice in supposing that the

Iladies in Broad Street engross the whole of my time; am at
Ipresent so ardently engaged in the Carlisle opposition that
have neither time to visit Broad Street or the Hill i. e. Stamford
Hill, Mr. Richardson's residence), though a visit to either place

would give me great pleasure. You are really too severe when
Iyou imagine, or rather conclude, that neglect business for con
Isiderations of minor importance.
                                   am well aware that it is
Ionly by close attention to my business that can get on in the
Ifworld.
          any appearance of neglect on my part has been
Iobserved by you, should esteem it a mark of friendship to have

it pointed out by you. The valuation of the mill would have

been forwarded to you immediately on my arrival in London
Ibut for the reason stated in my last, the 28th. John Dixon
Ihaving told me that you thought
                                   was lazy, induced me to

forward it to you in an unfinished state, inasmuch as concerned
Ithe tenor of occupation, which have not been able to determine
Isatisfactorily.
                  saw John Leigh this morning, who it appears

had a lease of the mill from Lord Turner. He mentioned that

some circumstances had removed the lease from his hands, but

I Ion what terms he was holding the establishment was not satis

factorily explained by him. Further than this, fear have no

means of furnishing you with the requisite information. There

seems to be some outs and ins which are not easily come at by

ordinary enquiries.  Yours most respectfully,

                                   Ron. STEPHENSON.

  IAs soon as we get through the Carlisle business,  will let
Iyou know when shall be at Stamford Hill.

   In spite of hard work and petty annoyances, however,

he contrived to enjoy himself in London. The prepa
rations for marriage were modest, and precluded all un
necessary expense; for Miss Sanderson had no fortune,
and Robert Stephenson---though he was confident and
hopeful for the future--was- far from a rich man. His

136  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.           [Cir VIII.

principal occupation was the superintendence of a fac
tory which, instead of being a lucrative concern, absorbed
all the money that he and his father could gather to
gether. So the young people prudently adapted their
expenditure to their means. They determined to keep
only one domestic servant, and even debated whether

they should spend money on a drawing-room sofa.

Robert Stephenson opposed the outlay as unnecessary,

and therefore bad in principle. `Reason or no reason,'

Ihe wrote to a friend in Newcastle, ` Fanny will have a
sofa a la mode in the drawing-room.       shall see you

soon, when we will talk this over.' Of course the ` talking

over' resulted in his compliance with the lady's wish.

In May the young people shipped from London for New

castle a piano, which in due course was placed in the

little drawing-room in Greenfield Place.

     In June Robert Stephenson went up to London from

Newcastle to be married. On the 4th of that month,

writing to an old friend, with characteristic frankness he

avowed how profoundly his feelings were moved by the

prospect before him--

  I Iwas very much upset (he wrote) when parted with you on
IGateshead Fell. So many new feelings and novel reflections

darted across my mind. It was no ordinary feeling that was

not to meet you again before my relation, and indeed connec

Ition, with the world would be materially changed. These

sentiments you can ap' preciate more readily than can describe
them.

   The near approach of his wedding unsettled him for
the performance of business, but did not make him less

anxious to attend to the many calls on his time and care.
The evening before his marriage he received depressing

1829.]                  MARRIAGE.                    137

intelligence of a serious accident to one of the bridges
on the Liverpool and Manchester line. On that same
evening also he wrote to his good friend, but stern
monitor, Mr. Richardson :----

                                                                 London: June 16, 1829.

IDEAR SIR,-- When speaking of the `Tourist ' steam-packet,

Iforgot to ask to whom the report of the boilers and flues was to
be addressed.  have written to-day full particulars to Dickin

son, saying that you would drop a line informing him how to

I Iaddress the report.
        am reluctant to trouble you thus much, but hope you will

excuse me.     am perhaps arc-usable for neglecting some little

particulars last night. You will have the goodness to inform

Mrs. Richardson that, unless something very extraordinary take

I Iplace, shall be married to-morrow morning. Afterwards
Ishall proceed by way of Wales to Liverpool, where purpose

Iarriving on Monday next.  remain, dear Sir,

                           Yours most respectfully,

                                   Ron. Srnrrrnnson.

   On Wednesday, June 17, 1829, the bells of the
parish church of Bishopsgate rang for Robert Stephen
son's marriage. As far as bystanders could see, he had
made a wise selection of a wife. Mrs. Stephenson was
not beautiful, but she had an elegant figure, a delicate
and animated countenance, and a pair of singularly

expressive dark eyes. A near relation, who knew her

intimately from childhood, bears testimony: ` She was an
unusually clever woman, and possessed of great tact in

influencing others, without letting anyone see her power.
To the last her will was law with her husband; but,

though she always had her way, she never seemed to

care about having it.'

138         LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                       [OIL IX.

            CHAPTER IX.

     RESIDENCE IN NEWCASTLE----CONTINUED.

                                              .

            (mrar. 25-28.)

     Wedding Trip -- Battle of the ` Locomotive ' -- ` The Oracle '--
     Oonstruction of the ` Rocket ' Steam Engine -- The Rainhill
     Contest----Particulars concerning the ` Rocket'--History of `the

     Blast-Pipe'---Triumpha11t return from Liverpool to Newcastle

     Answer to Mr. Walker's Report--Letters to Mr. Richardson--

     Numerous Engagements--More Locomotives --Opening of the

     Liverpool and Manchester Railway---Robert Stephenson appointed

     Engineer to the `VVarrington' and `Leicester and Swannington' Lines

     --Discovery of Coal Strata, and Purchase of Snibstone--London and

     Birmingham Railway--Robert Stephenson employed to carry the
     Line through Parliament-- Opposition to the Line -- ` Investigator's '

     Pamphlet----- Robert Stephenson's Evidence before the Lords' Oom

     mittee -- Rejection of the Bill in 1832 ---- Oalumnies --Public

Meeting at Thatched House Tavern in support of the London and

Birmingham Railway---Bill passes Parliament in l833--Robert

Stephenson  appointed sole Engineer-in-Chief to  the London  and
Birmingham  Railway-- Leaves Newcastle-on-Tyne
                                                 -- Pupils.

                 STEPHEN SON'S wedding trip was a short

RO- BoEnRe.T No sooner had he introduced his bride to

her new home in Greenfield Place than he devoted all
his energies to the superintendence of `the works,' and
especially to the construction of the `Rocket.' The great
and decisive battle of the locomotive, to be fought at

Rainhill during the ensuing October, was fast approach

ing. He had to carry out the instructions which he

had received from Mr. Booth and his father. A fearful

1829.]  THE BOILER OF THE `ROCKET.'  139

responsibility it was for so young a man, still only five
and twenty years of age. He knew that on the result
of the contest his after-success would greatly depend.
The ` Rocket ' was to him what ` Chat-Moss ' had just been

to his father. It was a grand trial of his capability as a

practical engineer.
   i
   In making the draWings. and calculations for the

new engine, he was assisted by Mr. G. H. Phipps, who

recalls with enthusiastic admiration the fine qualities
displayed by his ` chief' at that trying period. Punctual

to a moment, and methodical to nicety, the young

engineer was always at his post, and ready for every
emergency. No mishap found him unprovided with a
remedy. And in laying his plans he did not disdain to
profit by the practical experience of men, who in all that
concerned the science of engineering were mere artizans.

`Come, this is a touchy point,' he would cry good

naturedly, shaking his head after discussing a difficult
question ; ` let 's call in " the oracle." ' ` The oracle ' was

Mr. Hutchinson, a practical engineer, and the superinten
dent of the factory, to whom the subsequent success
of ` the works' was greatly due, and who eventually
became a partner in the concern. On his judgement
Robert had such reliance, that he invariably spoke of
him as `the oracle.' Had Robert Stephenson been -an

ordinary man, endowed only with the mere cunning
which often passes current for genius, he would have
picked the brains of `the oracle ' without letting' him be
aware of the operation.

   At length the tubes, with their thickened ends brazed
in, were screwed into the ends of the boiler. The work

looked well enough, but no sooner was it tested by

140  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL IX.

 hydraulic pressure than from the extremities of the tubes
jets of water flew out upon the dismayed beholders. Here
 was a conclusion to months of toil and hope. For the first
 time in the protracted labour Robert Stephenson's self

 command gave way, and, hastening to his office, he wrote
 a hasty report to his father of ` another failure.' Scarcely,
 however, was the letter posted for Liverpool, when his

 nobler nature reasserted itself, and he looked about for a

way to overcome the difficulty. In a happy moment the

right plan occurred to him. The brass screws could not
be relied upon, but the copper of which the tubes them

selves were made might be trusted. Forthwith he bored,
in the ends of the boiler, holes exactly corresponding to
the size of the tubes. Into these holes the tubes were

inserted, and steel ferrules, or hollow conical wedges,
were driven into their ends. By this means the copper
of each tube was forced powerfully against the circum
ference of the hole, and caused to fit perfectly water

tight. The steam having been raised, the result equalled

Robert Stephenson's most sanguine expectations, and he
despatched another letter to his father, announcing his
success. That second letter was crossed on its way to
Liverpool by one from his father telling his son to try the
very same means which had already proved successful.

    The engine was at last taken from `the works ' on Tyne
side and conveyed to the Killingworth Railway for trial.

Much as there was yet to be effected before the locomotive
should be raised to its present state of efficiency, a decided
progress had been made. The capability of evapora
tion had been so -raised that, while in the Killingworth
engines of 1829 the evaporating power was 16 cubic
feet of water per hour, in the `Rocket' engine, at the

1829.]  THE RAINHILL CONTEST.                141

Rainhill experiments, it was 1824 cubic feet per hour.

The vast room still left for improvement may be ap
preciated, even by an unprofessional reader, when it is
stated that the evaporative capability of Stephenson's
patent locomotive (of 1849) was ` seventy-seven cubic feet
of water per hour, or nearly five times the power of
the engine of 1829.'*

    After trial at Killingworth, the ` Rocket' was taken to
the Tyne and shipped for Liverpool, an insurance of
£500 having been effected against the peril of the voyage,
which was unusually rough and bad. The vessel arrived

at Liverpool so long after her time that she had been
given up for lost, and the sum for which the locomotive
had been insured had been actually paid to `Robert

Stephenson and Co.' when the ship and her cargo entered

Liverpool water safe and sound.

   At length October arrived, and on Tuesday, the 6th day
of the month, the famous locomotive display at Rainhill

began. The story of the competition has been often told,
but it is a story that will bear repetition.

    The running ground was a dead level, about ten miles
from Liverpool, on the Manchester side of the Rainhill
Bridge, at a place called Kenrick's cross. The whole
country round was alive to the great event. From 10,000
to 15,000 people of both sexes and all ranks assembled to
witness the novel contest. To accommodate the ladies,

amongst whom was Robert Stephenson's wife _anxious
and hopeful for her husband_a booth had been erected

at either end of the race-course a few yards from the
rails. Bands of music enlivened the entertainment.

        * Nicholas \Vood's `Address,' 1860.

142  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                   [OIL IX.

    On the course appeared four locomotive carriages_

    No. 1. Messrs. Braithwaite and Erichson's, of London, ` The
Novelty,' Weight 3 tons 15 cwt.

   No. 2. Mr. Hackworth's, of Darlington, `The Sans Pareil,'

weight 4 tons 8 cwt. 2 qrs.

   No. 3. Mr. Robert Stephenson's, of Newcastle-upon-Tyne,
` The Rocket,' weight 4 tons 3 cwt.

   No. 4. Mr. Brandreth's, of Liverpool, `The Cyclops.'

    Mr. Burstall of Leith had entered his `Perseverance,'

but it did not make its appearance on the 6th, in con
sequence of an accident which it had sustained on its

way to Liverpool.
    Mr. Brandreth's ingenious horse-power locomotive was

worked by two horses in a frame which, whilst they
themselves moved not more than a mile and a quarter per
hour, propelled their load of five tons at the rate of five
miles an hour. This curious contrivance was an object
of general admiration; but as a mere freak of ingenuity,
not fulfilling the requisitions of the directors, it of course
did not contest for the prize.

   The `Novelty,' `Sans Pareil,' and `Perseverance,' not

being ready at the appointed time, the race was put
off, much to the dissatisfaction of spectators. Two days
having been spent in preliminary exercise and mishaps,`
`The first systematic trial of the power of the engines,
under the inspection of the judges, took place on Thurs
day, when Mr. Stephenson's engine, the `F Rocket," was

brought out to perform the assigned task.' The distance
appointed to be 'run was seventy miles. When fairly
started, the engine was to draw, at the rate of at least ten
miles per hour, a gross weight of 3 tons for every ton of

     ' `Liverpool Times,' Monday, Oct. 13, 1839.

1829.]  THE RAINHILL CONTEST.  143

its own weight. The prescribed seventy miles were to be
accomplished on. a level plane of one mile and a half;

consequently the course had to be travelled over by the
successful locomotive forty times----the same number of
stops being made--with consequent loss of momentum
which had to be regained.

    On Thursday, the 8th, the `Rocket,' weighing with the
water in her boiler 4tons 5 cwt., began her seventy

miles at 10-30 A.M., and accomplished the first thirty

five of them in three hours and twelve minutes.

The average rate therefore. of this first burst was nearly
eleven miles per hour. After a quarter of an hour spent
in taking up a fresh supply of water and coke, the engine

started again, and accomplished the second thirty-five
miles in two hours and fifty-seven minutes, making an
average speed of twelve miles per hour. Thus, all
stoppages included, the entire time from the commence
ment to the end of the running was under six hours and

a half. At its fullest speed the engine frequently carried

its burden at more than eighteen miles per hour, and
occasionally it exceeded the rate of twenty miles per hour.

It had therefore beaten all previous locomotives, and more

than fulfilled the stipulations of the directors.
    It remains to speak of the other competing locomotives,

 the `Novelty,' the ` Sans Pareil,' and the ` Perseverance.'
 Scarcely had the ` Novelty ' commenced running when an
 accident to its machinery, or pipes necessitated a stoppage
 for repair. Another trial, on a subsequent day, was only

the occasion of another accident. It was therefore with

 drawn from the contest. The ` Sans Pareil,' built by
 Mr. Hackworth of Darlington, was also unfortunate. On
 being furnished with its complement of water, it was

144  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C11 IX.

found to exceed the stipulated weight by 5 cwt. Still,
though it was thus disqualified for competition, it was

permitted to display its powers over the course. Its

speed averaging fourteen miles per hour, with the ap
pointed load, was satisfactory; but an accident stayed
its operations at the eighth trip. As for the ` Perse
verance,' it was so far inferior to its antagonists-- never
travelling more than six miles per hour--that its name
was scratched from the list shortly after the commence
ment of the running.

    The result was that the ` Rocket ' was proclaimed the

winner, and the premium was consequently awarded by
the directors to Mr. Booth and the Messrs. Stephenson,
the former being the inventor of the multitubular boiler,
and the latter the manufacturers of the successful loco

motive.

    One principal feature of the ` Rocket' was the efficiency
of its blast, which scarcely in a less degree than the
boiler contributed toithe victory at Rainhill. With re

gard to the blast there has been much animated and some
acrimonious discussion; and more than one person has

been pointed to as the first to devise it. In the first

locomotive that ran with smooth wheels on smooth rails
--namely, the first of Mr. Hedley's Wylam engines--
the waste steam was emitted over the wheels at the side.

In the second of Mr. Hedley's Wylam locomotives, built,

as the reader recollects, prior to George Stephenson's first
locomotive, a different course was employed. To obviate

the noise and render the smoke less objectionable, a

chamber was constructed in the boiler, into which the

waste steam was conveyed from the cylinder by an
eduction pipe that was turned upwards. From this

1829.]      ` PUFFING BILLY.'  145

chamber the steam in an expanded state passed through

another pipe into the chimney. This arrangement pre

cluded anything like an efiicient blast, but doubtless the

passage of the steam up the chimney, as far as it was in

any way influential, quiekened the draught. This is a

fact which should be remembered. In the second Wylam

locomotive the waste steam was emitted into the chimney.

   In George Stephenson's first Killingworth locomotive

engine the waste steam (either from the first, or at a date
shortly subsequent to the completion of the engine) was

conveyed through a pipe directly into the chimney, with

out passing through any intermediate receiver; and the

noise of the steam forcing its way through the exit pipe

and up the chimney, soon procured for the engine the

sobriquet of ` Puffing Billy.' No attempt had been made

to deaden the noise. There was the blast in unquestion

able action, although of trivial efficiency.
   In the history of mechanical science there are few

points more singular than that the origin of such a
power as `the blast in the steam locomotive ' should be

involved in obscurity. Amongst the Wylain workmen,

it is a matter of firm belief that the ability of the waste

steam to quicken the draught through the fire-box was

discovered by accident. They state that two workmen,

the brothers John and Henry Bell, the one still managing,

in the autumn of 1860, a fixed engine at Blaydon, the

other driving, at the same date, a locomotive on the

Wylam line, effected the discovery in the following

manner:--It was their duty periodically to clean the

boiler of the Wylam locomotive, and also the exit pipe

communicating between the receiver and the chimney.

This pipe had a tendency to become furred up, and every
-
            L
   VOL. I.

146           LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Cm IX.

time the men scoured off the deposit they also removed

some of the metal. The pipe thus gradually became thin,
and in the course of years needed repair. After the

fashion of Northumbrian engine-drivers, who tinker up

their engines as unconcernedly as a Suffolk ploughman
ties up his horses' tails, the Bells inserted a small rim of

iron into the enlarged pipe, thus rendering the mouth far
more contracted than it was originally. The current of

vapour passing through the narrow orifice, was, of course,

much quickened by the alteration. Its upward passage

was proportionately accelerated ; and with corresponding
increase of velocity, the air rushed in from below through
the fire-box to fill the vacuum caused by the ascending

steam. So marked was the effect of `the iron rim' on the

speed of the engine, that when the men took their first

drive on after the work of cleaning and repairing, theya it,
were for few seconds positively alarmed by the speed of

their progression. This one story. Another tradition,is

credited by the present representative of the Stephenson

family, that James Stephenson hit on the secret alsois

by accident. According to this tradition, James Stephen
son, whilst acting as driver, turned the eduction pipe of
the first Killingworth engine into the chimney for the
purpose of abating the nuisance of the waste steam, which,

on being emitted from the side of the locomotive, covered

him with moisture and interfered with his line of sight.

     Certain  it        that the first Killingworth engine, at
                   is,      `

                                            ;'
                                                           is a
very early date of its existence, had the blast that

to say, the steam went into the chimney in distinct puffs.
The assertion that George Stephenson himself `applied

the steam-blast' to his first locomotive in order to in

crease the draught and the heating power of the fire,           is

1829.]              ` THE BLAST.'                                           147

improbable. The statement that the blast, when so ap
plied, ` more than doubled the power of the engine,' is
unquestionably erroneous-- although it was made to

Mr. Smiles in all good faith by Robert Stephenson

                    the size of the chimney and the
himself. The fact  is,
                       a

                                              a
                                                                         a
small power of the engine, the chimney being altogether
out of proportion to the power of two-horse engine,
precluded the possibility of having so efficient blast.

Mr. Nicholas Wood,  scientific engineer, intimately

acquainted with the locomotive in question, has publicly

stated *---`The blast in the chimney, which afterwards

formed so important an element in the evaporation

of steam, was then comparatively inoperative, from the

imperfect mode in which was applied, and from the
                    it

                             a
                                is

                                   it

                                                                a
low rate of speed at which the engine moved.'
   Of course George Stephenson knew that the tendency

of the ascending vapour was to quicken the draught up

the chimney. But not the less         true that the in

fluence of the blast was scarcely appreciable in the Kil

lingworth engines. Years were" to elapse before George

Stephenson was to awaken to knowledge of the full

capability of the blast. The inability to generate suffi

cient supply of steam was, from 1814 to 1829, the reason

why the locomotive, instead of being generally adopted

on railways, was regarded by sound judges as having

only slight advantage over the stationary engine--
        a

an advantage not great enough to secure for  it                             wide

                                                 a

popularity. Throughout the greater part of that time,

George Stephenson saw clearly that the two great needs

of the locomotive were- more heat, and better means

           " Mr. Nicholas 1Vood's Address.'
                    L
                        2

                                   `

148  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL IX.

of diffusing that heat. . Without a fierce fire, and a large
heating surface, it was impossible to generate the re
quisite amount of steam. He therefore racked his brains
to invent a boiler offering a wide field of contact for the

heat and the water, and to construct bellows that should

make his fire-box a perpetual furnace. The reader, of
course, bears in mind the agreement between George
Stephenson and Mr. Losh and the Messrs. James as to
boiler tubes, in 1821. In a former part of this work
a letter appears, which shows how George and Robert
Stephenson, i11 seeking to send an adequate current of air
through the fire of a locomotive, fixed their thoughts on
an artificial and not a natural draught. There are extant

many letters between the father and son, which accord
with the one referred to. Such was the state of things in
1828. Such, too, was the case in 1829, until, whilst the
` R00/cet ' was being built, George Stephenson became alive
to the full importance of a principle Which, notwithstand
ing the structure of his own early locomotives, he had for

fifteen years at least not duly estimated.
   During the building of the ` Rocket ' Mr. G. H.

Phipps had an engagement at the factory at Newcastle,
having charge of the drawing ofiice, and he was Robert

Stephenson's active coadj utor, and trusted friend. During
a temporary absence of Robert Stephenson from ` the
works,' Mr. Phipps received the following letter from

George Stephenson : --

                                                               Liverpool: August 13, 1829.

  IDEAR PHIPPS,----- As understand Robert is gone to Canter
I Ibury, may mention to you that have put-on to the coke

engine a longer exarsting pipe, riching nearly to the top of the

Ichimeney, but find it dose not do so well as putting it into the
chimeney lower down.  think it will be best near the level of

1829.]  `THE BLAST' IN 1828 AND 1829.                                                                          149

the top of the boiler, by doing so it will look neater. the
coke engine is doing extremely well--but the `Lankshire Witch '
is rely doing wonders. A statement of her performance you

Iwill see in the paper in a few days.

                                                   am, dear Phipps,
                                                        Yours truly,

                                                                          Gno. STEPHENSON.

    Had George Stephenson been-for fifteen years aware of
the full value of ` the blast ' as a natural bellows, he would

scarcely at so late a date have thought of putting the
mouth of his ` exarsting pipe ' nearly at the top of the

chimney. But it was at this very time -- August 1829 --

that George Stephenson, whilst he was making experi

ments on the eduction pipe, to see if the rapid current of

its vapour could not be employed with greater effect for
the creation of chimney draught, hit upon the full im
portance of a principle which for years he most probably

had regarded lightly.
   N o time was lost in giving the ` Rocket' the full benefit

of the new discovery. When the engine astonished the
spectators at Rainhill, the draught of the chimney was
accelerated by two blast-pipes. ` Mr. Robert Stephen
son's carriage,' says the ` Liverpool Courier,' Wednesday,
Oct. 7, 1829, `attracted the most attention during the

early part of the afternoon. It ran, without any weight

being attached to at the rate of twenty-four miles in
the hour, shooting past the spectators with amazing
velocity, emitting very little smoke, but dropping red-hot
cinders as proceeded.' The Sans Pareil had also at

Rainhill very powerful blast, but causes independent of
the waste-pipe shut out from success.

   The combination of the multitubular boiler and the

blast was most felicitous, and achieved the triumph of the
        a

           it
                         it it,

                                                        `

                                                                                                            '

150            LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL IX.

locomotive. They acted and reacted upon each with

beautiful effect. AJ- good fire was a necessary condition

for the proper action of the multitubular boiler; that good

fire was secured by the forcible jets of the exhaust-pipe ;
those forcible jets were a consequence of the boiler being

able to supply the cylinders continuously with steam.
Without the blast the multitubular boiler would have been

comparatively inoperative; and, apart from the multitu

bular boiler,  a Istrong,  continuous,  and regular blast was
                                                                     .

impossible.

     Robert Stephenson went home from Liverpool tri

umphant. It was a happy meeting between him and his

wife in Greenfield Place, whither she had preceded him.

He was a made man. Henceforth there was no fear for

the locomotive; its speedy and universal adoption had

been secured. Not less certain was it that Robert Ste

phenson and Co. would for many years be the first loco
motive manufacturers in the world; but the victory,

far from inducing the engineer to relax, only spurred him

to increase his exertions. He resolved to lose no time in

producing engines superior to the `Rocket.' Having,
however, done so much in the way of professional action,

he could afford a little time for professional polemics.
As long as the locomotive required him to labour in

the workshop, he had abstained from controversy; but

now he took pen in hand with the purpose of convincing
the public mind that the reports of Messrs. Walker and

Rastrick were not supported by the facts which they,
previous to the production of the `Rocket,' had under

taken to examine. It might seem that the time was past

for replying to statements which had been exploded by

events. But the fact was, Mr. Walker's report had taken

1829.]  ANSWER. TO MR. WALKER-S REPORT.                 1-51

a firm hold of the public mind, and its author was by no
means disposed to modify his views in deference to

recent improvements. .

   On December 17, 1829, Robert Stephenson wrote to

Mr. Richardson --

I am now engaged in preparing an answer to James
IWalker's report on locomotive and stationary engines.
                                                        am

induced to do this from the industrious manner with which he

has been circulating his report in every quarter of England.
He left one with Kingsford, the solicitor at Canterbury, doubtless

with some object.

  JIn the February of 1830, therefore, Robert Stephen

son, in conjunction with Mr. oscph Locke, published

`Observations on the Comparative Merits of Locomotive

and Fixed Engines.' In this treatise facts were closely

adhered to, and idle speculation was studiously avoided.

Robert Stephenson did not want to startle uninformed
readers with the marvels which he hoped to accomplish,

but to tell them how much he could assuredly achieve.
He was, therefore, content to say: ` On a level railway,

a locomotive engine weighing from four to five tons,
will convey twenty tons of goods, exclusive of carriages,
at the rate of twelve miles an hour.' The moderation

and caution of the writer were characteristics that marked

his entire professional career, and contributed in no small

measure to his success.

   A glance at the following extracts from Robert Ste

phenson's letters to Mr. Richardson will give the reader a
vivid picture of a portion of his professional life during
the next few months after the Rainhill contest.

IDEAR SIR,--                                  Newcastle-on-Tyne: Dec. 17, 1829.

                   was sorry that you passed through Newcastle
I Ibefore returned from Liverpool, as had many things to

152  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                   [OIL IX.

mention respecting railways which are projected in Cheshire and

Lancashire. . . . The proprietors of the Warrington and Newton

Railways a little time ago proposed a line from the former place
towards Birmingham, but at the outset only intended taking it

Iup as far as Sandbach, a distance of twenty-two miles from War

rington; the remaining distance to Birmingham is, believe,
about 53 miles. Should this line go on, it will join the Liverpool

and Manchester sixteen miles from Liverpool,through the medium

Iof the Warrington and Newton Railway, and will consequently be

of great advantage to both these lines now in progress. madea

survey about three weeks ago, and lodged the plans in the cus
tomary manner. This plan or line of communication to Bir

mingham did not meet the views of the Liverpool people. They

therefore employed Vignoles as engineer to survey a line from

Liverpool to Runcorn, where they proposed making a bridge

over the Mersey at an enormous cost, and in this direction

Iopening a communication to Birmingham. The Liverpool direc

tors were not agreeable that my father or should be concerned

in the Sandbach line, as it would be opposed by the Marquis of

IStafford; and as my father might be employed to oppose the line

in Parliament, he and would thus be brought into direct colli

Ision, which would certainly not be very pleasant. Having made

this survey, was of course bound in honour to sign the plan

Iand section. What will be the result in Parliament cannot

guess. There will doubtless be a strong opposition, and perhaps

a fatal one. It is averse to my feelings to be concerned with

any undertaking which might interfere with Mr. Locke's views,

Ias his kindness to my father has been very great. Being,
however, engineer for the Warrington directors,   could not

refuse with any appearance of consistency to attend to an exten
I Ision of this line -- an extension which, if made, will be of
immense benefit to that which  am now executing.  heard

from Liverpool the other day that another Birmingham line had

been suggested which was likely to obtain supporters. It is to

pass underneath the Mersey opposite Liverpool, continue on

Ito Chester, and thence to Birmingham, in the same route as the

line my father laid down in 1825. am not aware of the merits
of this line, but it strikes me that it will be a more expensive
one than that from Warrington by way of Sandbach, and it will

certainly never be of so much importance to the Liverpool and

1830.]      GOOD WORK AND HIGH PRICES.                         153

Manchester line. There are several other branch railways pro

jected in Lancashire. The trials at Rainhill of the locomotives

seem to have set people railway mad. . . . . We are getting

Irapidly on with four locomotive engines for Liverpool, which

am' confident will exceed the ` Rocket ' in powers. One of them

will leave here. about New Year's Day, and the other three

about the end of January.

                           Yours very faithfully,

                                             Ron. Srsrrmnson.

                                             Liverpool: Jan. 3, 1830.
IMr DEAR SIn,-- On my arrival here
                                             found your letter

I Iwritten after you left Newcastle.

      wish much had seen you at Newcastle, were it only for

receiving your instructions concerning the Duke of Norfolk's
Icoal-field and railway to Sheffield, which intend visiting on my
Iway to London the latter end of this month.
                                              am at present

engaged in getting up the parliamentary plans and estimate for

the Warrington and Sandback railway. As soon as they are

I Ifinished shall proceed to Canterbury. By that time hope

the line will be ready for opening. . . . .

                                                                Liverpool: Jan. 25, 1830.

IMr DEAR Sm . . . have consulted my father on the subject

of the Carlisle end of the railway. He is quite agreeable to take

the west end of the line and leave it chiefly to my management

for something between £500 and £700 a year. They would not

                                       it,
                                                    it
expect my whole time to be devoted to        as an assistant to be

always attending would be requisite; so that            would not

require me to confine my attention to that neighbourhood

entirely. should then have the Lancashire and the Warrington
        I

             I
and Newton to attend to. Amongst them should divide my
                           .

                                  I

                                              I

                                                                                 a
attention, and see no difficulty in doing that, when have

confidential assistant at each place to see that my plans are

carefully and strictly attended to. . . .

                           Canterbury: April 28, 1830.

DEAR SIR .      . regret we are too high for the Darlington
        I
                  .
                       .
               I
Bridge, but am afraid we are a. great deal too high for the

154      LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C11 IX.

winding engine at St. Helens, Auckland, but we really cannot

compete with those engine-builders in the neighbourhood of

Newcastle, who not only work for nothing, but who make bad

workmanship. The engine you require for St. Helens is the

same power as one we made for the Liverpool Railway Company,

Iand will require more workmanship. For the Liverpool engine we

had £1,600, but daresay you will soon have offers for £1,000;

Ibut it is useless attempting to make engines for such prices,I

because know it is impossible to make a good and substantial

job without reasonable prices.

                                             22 Broad Street Buildings : May 6, 1830.

  IDEAR SIR,-- returned from Canterbury on Tuesday, and
Iwould have answered your letters that day had not been

unwell.

The Warrington business is closed in the Lords, and the

ILeicester. committee sits to-day, when my business in London
for this session will be ended.  intend leaving London for

Liverpool, where, according to your letter of the 1st inst., you
will probably be. . . . .

The opening of the Canterbury Railway went ofi- remarkably

Iwell, without a single mishap. The paper will be forwarded to
you by Joshua.  have not seen any detailed acount published.

   Still only twenty-six years of age, Robert Stephenson
had made a distinguished position for himself, and every

succeeding year was henceforth to add to his dignity and

worldly prosperity. In the spring of 1830 was opened

the Canterbury and Whitstable line, constructed under

Robert Stephenson's supervision, his father being respon
sible for the engineering. The same season saw the Bill
for the Warrington Railway safe through both Houses of
Parliament, and Robert Stephenson forthwith began to

construct the line as engineer-in-chief--he having made
the survey, sections, and estimates for the parliamentary

application. In the same session permission was sought

1830.]   CHARACTERISTIC MODESTY.      155

to make another line from Leicester to Swannington ; and

the leave being granted, Robert Stephenson was appointed

principal engineer to that undertaking also. He had thus

two railways on his hands, whilst at the same time -he
continued to direct the operations of the Newcastle

factory, and was actively engaged in improving the loco

motive.

   The heads of most young men would have been

turned by such a tide of success. It was, however, re

marked that Robert Stephenson did not forget the

modesty of bearing which characterised him in youth.
Indeed, conscious as he was of his power, he in a cer

tain way mistrusted himself, and feared that he might

fail from want of experience, if not from want of in

nate force. Whilst he was in London, during the pro
gress of the Warrington Bill through Parliament, he was

accosted by an old comrade of his South American ad

ventures, whom he had not seen since quitting Colombia.

His friend, of the same age as himself, had recently

returned from America to seek fortune in his native land.

I`And here am back in Old England,' he said, `looking

about for something to do, whilst the business which fills

your hands is on every man's lips.' The friends dined
together at an hotel in Bridge Street, and over a bottle

of wine talked of past times, and discussed their future
prospects. ` Of course you congratulate me on my ad

I Ivance towards fortune,' Robert Stephenson said earnestly,

`but can assure you sometimes feel very uneasy

Iabout my position. My courage at times almost fails me ;-

and fear that some fine morning my reputation may

break under me like an egg-shell I '

As the works on the Liverpool and Manchester line

156  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [GIL IX.

 were being brought to a conclusion, the directors busied

 themselves with plans for a public celebration of their

labours. In August 1829 Mr. Huskisson visited Liver

pool, and was present at an inspection of the hne, and at

a celebration preliminary to greater rej oicings in the fol

lowing year. Writing by the hand of his secretary to

Mr. Longridge, George Stephenson (August 23, 1829) thus
described the preliminary entertainment :--

  IWe had a grand day last Friday--Huskisson visited the

greater part of the line with the directors, of course was one
of the party. VVe first went to the great viaduct, thence along
the line to the bridge at Rainhill: then to the commencement
of the deep cutting at Olive Mount, where we were met by the
locomotive engine, which took the whole party, amounting to
about 135, through the deep cutting at the rate of nine miles
an hour, to the great delight of the whole party: the engine
really did well. We next went to the tunnel, where a train of
waggons was in readiness to receive the party. Many of the
first families in the county were waiting to witness the procession
which, accompanied by a band of music occupying one of the
waggons, descended in grand style through the tunnel, which
was brilliantly lighted up, the gas-lights being placed at intervals
of twenty-five yards. The whole went off most pleasantly,
without the slightest accident attending our various movements.
Huskisson expressed himself to me highly delighted with what
he had seen. Mr. Huskisson and the directors dined with

IMr. Lawrence in the evening; the engineer was one of the

party, and a most splendid set-out there was, assure you.
The evening was spent in a very pleasant manner.

    So pleased was Mr. Huskisson with this demonstration
in 1829, that he exerted all his influence to assemble

people of high importance to witness the formal opening
of the line in the following year. Of that later event
the engineer could not say---` The whole went off most
pleasantly, without the slightest accident attending our
various movements.'

1830.] LIVERPOOL AND MANCHESTER RAILWAY.  157

On September 15, 1830, the Liverpool and Manchester

Railway was opened with an imposing ceremonial and a

disaster that struck to the heart of the country. Amongst

those who assembled to witness the event were some of

the highest personages of the land, the Duke of Wellington

and Sir Robert Peel being conspicuous amongst a crowd
of celebrities.

The morning of September 15, 1830, was fine and

bright, and the towns of Liverpool and Manchester were

in a state of great excitement. For several days exertions

had been made to clear the entire line of obstructions --

such as earth-waggons, machinery, and masses of timber
--which were collected at various points of the route.

The `points and crossings,' at that time by far the most

defective part of the railway system, were all carefully

removed, excepting at Huyton (about six miles from
Liverpool) and at the two termini, so that with these ex

ceptions there was one unbroken line of rails through

the whole way, the risk of carriages leaving the line being

thus reduced to a minimum.

At Parkside, the half-way point on the line, adequate

preparations were made for renewing the supply of water

to the tenders of the engines. The arrangements for ob

taining fresh water not being perfected at Manchester,

the requisite supply was provided at Eccles (about four
miles distant from the great cotton town)--directions
having been given that the engines and tenders should

be replenished at that station, after performing the entire

journey. The time occupied by the engines and tenders

in running out the four miles from Manchester to Eccles,

getting a fresh stock of water, and returning to Manchester,

would  (it  was calculated) be less than the time which the

158                LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.           [CIL IX.

visitors conveyed to Manchester by the trains would
require for a lunch provided by the Company in a build
ing adjacent to the terminus. The directors, also, having
good reason to fear that persons would put obstructions

on the rails, stationed men at intervals along the entire
line to see that the way was kept clear.

   Every precaution for safety and expedition having thus
been taken, the procession was formed of eight trains.
The following order of progress was drawn out by Joseph
Locke, with the assistance of Mr. T. L. Gooch, his

coadjutor in arranging the day's proceedings.

                   Directed by         Flagmen                     Brakesmen

Northum-           .                   Mark Thompson    [J as. Scott
brim
Phoenix          J}George Stephenson                    -L J. Mening, jun
                 . Rob. Stephenson, jun. as. Thompson
                                                           -$132318gggglilshields
North Star Rob. Stephenson, sen. W. E. Gillespie
                                                        {gfiglrfizz ggzfigg

Rocket           . Joseph Locke     ....                -I [J
Dart
                    Thos. L. Gooch  . Saml. Bennet           .gig gig:

                                                                                       ,
                                                                                                .
        . ..                                                   gtxratley
             ....                                         os. Copeland
                                                        Jno Cumming

Comet              Wm. Allcard .    . Josh. Richardson  gjlgllilgigssen
Arrow              F. Swanwick
          i        Anthony Harding     Jno. Birkinshaw                  Mmeod
                                                        {gjnmld.ofi ay.
                                    .

Meteor                              .  Wm. Gray .

                                                        %11(:)'sI%£%:-1§

    The principal train was drawn by the orthumbrian    `

engine, under the care of George Stephenson. It con      N
                                                                                                     '
sisted of four state-carriages, built for the occasion, open
at the sides, and made with the awnings and roofs so
high that passengers could walk about with ease. This
train, containing the Duke of Wellington, Sir Robert Peel,
and other personages of high distinction, was placed alone
on the southern line of rails. The seven other trains

were placed upon the northern line, an interval of about

     1t..t. g-.-- .._-.t..

1830.]  MR. HUSKISSON'S FATAL ACCIDENT.  159

six hundred yards being allowed between each train and
                                                                                      -

the one following it.
   The trains were started by bomb of cannon; and for

the first half of the journey all went well. At the com

mencementI the speed was slow, but as the carriages passed
through Olive Mount cutting the pace astonished the
thousands who lined the slopes. Crowds who had as
sembled at the bridges along the line testified their

satisfaction with renewed cheers. At Parkside, where a
stop was made for a fresh supply of water, an accident,

however, occurred that altogether changed the character
of the day's proceedings. Mr. Huskisson, who had made

the journey in the first of the seven trains on the northern
line, left his carriage at the station, and, crossing over to

the state-carriages on the southern line, paid his respects

to the Duke of Wellington, with whom he had for some

time been at variance. The soldier and the Member
of the House of Commons had just time to exchange

words of reconciliation -- the Duke retaining his seat, and

Mr. Huskisson standing on the line--when the ` Rocket '

engine, conveying its train at a moderate pace, swept up,

and bore the latter gentleman to the ground, crushing his

thigh bones. Without delay the injured man was lifted
into one of the state-carriages, and conveyed at the rate
of thirty-six miles an hour to Eccles, where in the vicar's
house he expired during the evening of the same day.

   The dismay of the passengers in the other trains, as
on reaching Parkside they received the sad news, was
followed by uncertainty as to what course it would,
under the circumstances, be best to pursue. Some
thought it would be more delicate to return to Liverpool
and leave the day's journey uncompleted. Others, think

160  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Cm IXL

ing of the multitude who awaited their arrival at Man
chester, and the panic their non-appearance would create

in that city, argued in favour of proceeding. The debate
lasted so long that an hour and a half slipped away
before the 600 or 700 passengers left Parkside. Finally,
it was decided to go on to Manchester. The engines on
the northern line were once more set in motion--the

three state-carriages on the southern line (one carriage
of the original train together with the ` Northumbrian'
engine was engaged in Mr.-Huskisson's service) having
been previously attached by chains to the two leading
locomotives on the northern line. No new difficulty
awaited the expedition until it reached the commencement
of the three miles of cutting, through which the line enters

Manchester. At that point, to the surprise and terror of

the engine-drivers, the slopes of the cutting on either side,

and the railway itself, were found in the possession of a
dense mass of people. Through this multitude the trains

had to pass before they could reach Manchester. The

authorities of the town and populous district had taken
the precaution of calling out a large military force to

guard the station from the encroachments of the mob.
But a Lancashire mob is never docile; and just then
political discontents had made the lower orders especially
unruly. The delay in the arrival of the trains, vague
rumours of a fearful accident, and anxiety to behold ` the

Duke,' whom they cordially detested, had put the excited
populace beyond the control of the military. Pushing
out into the country, the crowds soon outflanked the
soldiers, and took possession of the rails.

   It was a trying position for Robert Stephenson, who

headed the procession with the Phoenix engine, to which

AI-- ..t.~----,_.--~-.

1830.] TIIE DUKE'S RECEPTION AT MANCHESTER.  161

were attached the five carriages that constituted its train

at starting. The state-carriages on the south line (from
the windows of one of which the Duke of Wellington

surveyed the rabble) had been once more annexed to the
`Northumbrian.' Slackening speed, Robert Stephenson

proceeded cautiously. But caution had its disadvantages;
for the more reckless of the multitude caught hold of

the carriages and climbed up their sides whilst they were
slowly rolling alopg. To complete the confusion, the
political animosities of the mob broke out in acts of

insult and violence. At various points of the cutting

placards reflecting on the ministry were exhibited, and
weaving machines were set out for inspection with brief
announcements upon them of the prices of labour and

bread. Brickbats also were aimed at the state-carriages.

Eventually the trains reached Manchester without acci
dent or loss of life; but only to find the station occu

pied by another mob. All communication between the

different trains was cut ofi. Many of the excursionists

left their seats, and fought their way through the crowd

to the apartments where the Company had provided
lunch. The Duke of Wellington refused to descend from
his carriage, to which the mob continued to press. For
some time he kept the rioters in good humour by shaking
hands with their women and children; but the uproar

round the state-carriages increased so much and rapidly,
that, to secure the Duke from risk of assault, it was

thought necessary to remove him from the tumult.

Without much difficulty the ` Northumbrian ' engine was

brought round, and the train of state-carriages, contain
ing their due complement of occupants, slowly wormed

VOL. 1.  M

162  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL IX.

its way out of the station and through the excited multi

tude.

   At Eccles, on the return of the Duke's party, another
mishap was added to the tale of accidents. At that

station four of the seven engines from the northern were
found on the southern line, taking in a fresh stock of

water. Had it been possible to carry out the programme,

of course these four engines would have, returned to

Manchester and taken up their position on the northern

line before the `Northumbrian ' started; but it had

been found necessary to carry off the Duke without
delay at any cost of trouble and confusion. The con
sequence was that ` the points and crossings ' having

been all removed except at Huyton and the two termini,

there were only two moves on the board open to the

players -- either to take the state-carriages back to

Manchester, where the Duke would certainly be received
with insults, and not improbably with a shower of brick

bats, or to drive the four engines before the ` Northum

brian ' to Huyton (six miles from Liverpool), where they
could be passed over to the northern rails and find their

way to Manchester. The latter course was taken.

    The four engines were ordered on before the state-train
to Huyton, and the managers of the remaining three en
gines of the northern line, after taking in water at Eccles,

conveyed to Manchester the pleasant intelligence that

they were left to convey the excursionists back to Liver

pool. It was not till late that these three engines (the
`Rocket,' the `North Star,' and the `Arrow ') reached
Manchester. Darkness was rapidly coming on. In those

early days of the railway system -signal lamps had not
come into use. To lessen the chances ofcollision, which

     . . .-.-P-.._--_---..  _              _

1830.]  TIIE RETURN TRIP.  163

were strong in the case of three separate trains following
each other closely, the carriages were formed into one
train, and the three engines were connected. This long
train worked through the crowd, and safely reached
Eccles, where the train was stopped for the purpose of
enquiring after Mr. Huskisson. On starting again, the
couplings of some of the carriages broke, and had to

be supplied. with strong ropes. At Parkside the train

was met by three of the engines which had gone on to

Huyton: and these three engines, having at Huyton
crossed to the north line, were ready to assist in drawing

the carriages. It was determined still to adhere to the

plan of having only one train. Two of the recently
arrived engines were annexed to the load, and the third
engine, the ` Comet,' was directed to precede them at the
distance of half a mile, clearing the way before them, and

signalling obstacles by holding out a lighted tar-rope.

   All went on favourably till Rainhill was reached,

when the ascent brought the train to a standstill. To

lighten the load the male passengers quitted their seats
and walked up the incline, when the engines, relieved of
more than half their living burden, managed to get to
the summit of the rising ground. On the old racing
level of Rainhill a good pace was attained, a wheelbarrow

(maliciously placed on the line) being at` that point run
over and broken to pieces by the pilot-engine. Broad
Green embankment and Olive Mount cutting were in
like manner passed safely; and the train, after leaving
the locomotives at Edge Hill, rattled through the tunnel
to the terminus, the mile and a quarter of archway being
brilliantly lighted with gas, and the feelings of an anx
 ious multitude, who for hours had been waiting for

                                                                                M2

164  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.         [C1L IX.

the arrival of the excursionists, breaking forth in deafen

ing cheers.*             Stephenson     makes the following
   An old friend of Mr.           -

statement :--

     `Eventful as Robert Stephenson's life had been, the

year 1830 was perhaps as much marked as any by

important occurrences. In that year the Leicester and

Swannington Railway was commenced, to which under
taking he was appointed engineer, the object of the line
being chiefly to convey to Leicester the coal from the
collieries then existing in the neighbourhood of Swan
nington. Early in 1831, during the progress of the

Railway, the Snibston Estate, lying close to the line,

was advertised to be sold by public auction. Forming

his opinion from the geological features of the country,

and from the coal seams which had been already worked

near the surface, on a very limited scale, Robert Stephen

son was satisfied that other and more valuable seams

existed under the Snibston Estate. This opinion he urged

upon his father so forcibly, that the latter persuaded two
of his Liverpool friends, Mr. Joseph Sandars and Sir

Joshua Walmsley, to join him in purchasing the Snibston

~Estate. In 1831 operations were commenced, and two

shafts were sunk on the dip, or east side of the estate, but

after getting through the keuper, or new red sandstone
formation, which in that part of the district overlies the
coal measures, they came upon a narrow strip of " green
whinstone," which had descended in a fused state from

the neighbouring volcanic hills of the Charnwood Forest

range. This deposit proved a most formidable obstacle ;
    " The foregoing particulars of the  communication made by Mr. T. L.

opening of the Liverpool and Man-       Gooch.
chester Line are taken from a written

1830.]   THE SXIBSTON COLLIERIES.                                   165

but after a long process of sinking, during which so much

time was expended that even Mr. Stephenson's perseve

rance was nearly exhausted, the sinkers drove a bore-hole

through  it,and proved the coal measures underneath.
                   a
This strip of "whinstone" was 20 feet thick, and so

hopeless had the task of penetrating                                at one time
                                                                    a it
appeared, that second pair of shafts were commenced
                                                                                      a
to the westward, and in these latter pits this serious                                           a

difficulty was not encountered. After two years of labour

Mr. Stephenson's foresight was rewarded by discovering

aat depth of 200 yards from the surface an excellent
seam, called the " main coal," which was shortly after

wards worked scarcely more to the advantage of the

speculators than to the benefit of Leicester, the inhabi

tants of which town had in great measure depended fora

coal on Derbyshire, the coal being brought to Leicester

by canal. Upon the opening of the Leicester and Swan

nington Railway, the price of coals in Leicester fell nearly

40 per cent., whereby the town gained nearly £40,000

year. The Snibston Colliery, under the intelligent

management of Mr. Vaughan, has proved to be most

lucrative concern.'

   In 1830 Robert Stephenson became member of the
Institution of Civil Engineers. In that same year (1830), in

consequence of the success of the Stockton and Darlington

_~line, the triumph of the locomotive, and the satisfactory

state of works on the Liverpool and Manchester Rail
way,* project was revived that had slept for the pre
        a

                                                     a
                                                                 a
    A note ought to preserve story                                mind on the subject of railways gave
                                                                     new turn to the eccentric humours
connected with the construction of
                                                                  of disordered intellects. Many were
the Liverpool and Manchester Rn.il-                               the delusions and extravagances of
way. The excitement of the public

166  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.        [C11 IX.

ceding five years. As early as 1824 a proposal was made                                                                                       i
to lay down a railway between London and Birmingham.
The route of the proposed railway was surveyed in 1825,                                                                                       1
                                                                                                                                              l
but in those hard times for speculative enterprise the

project was set aside. The year 1830, however, witnessed
two proposals, instead of one, for an iron road between
Birmingham and the capital. The one set of projectors

advocated a line by Coventry; the other adventurers

being in favour of a route through Banbury and Oxford.
George Stephenson being applied to for an opinion by
the competing parties, decided in favour of the Coventry
route. The consequence of this decision was that the
rival Companies, instead of aiding the external enemies
who were ready to destroy both of them, prudently joined
their forces, and with united influence applied to Parlia

ment for a line through Coventry. George Stephenson
was at first employed in conjunction with his son as

engineer to make the surveys and plans, and carry the
                                                                                                                                           '

line through Parliament.

. The agreement (signed September 18, 1830) between
the Company and the engineers, stipulated that George

persons afiiicted with railway mania.  then near its completion. George
One inoffensive elderly gentleman,     Stephenson had heard nothing of
                                       the monomaniac's proceedings; he
residing in a suburb of Liverpool,     was, therefore, not a little astonished
conceived a passion for tunnelling,
and a noble ambition to surpass the    one morning, as he passed along his
                                       tunnel, to hear a noise of a human
achievements of George Stephenson.
Without making any unnecessary         voice cheering over his head, and on
noise he hired a number of workmen,
and amused himself for awhile with     looking up to see, through a hole
                                       knocked in the brickwork of the
driving trmnels under the surface of
                                       tunnel, the protruded face, glowing
his own grounds. At length, wish       with exultation, of an elderly gen
                                       tleman, who persisted in demon
ing to astonish the `professional      strations of satisfaction and excla
hands,' he burrowed beyond the         mations of ` How are you F '
boundaries of his own property, and

bored into the great railway tunnel,

1830.]  AN AGREEMENT.                   167

Stephenson was to receive for his time actually expended
on the work seven guineas per diem, and Robert Stephen
son five guineas, free of all expenses. George Stephenson's
appointment, however, was little more than nominal.
The surveys were made by Robert Stephenson, who in

the subsequent parliamentary battles was the engineering

authority of the projectors, and ultimately, on the Bill

being obtained, was made ` engineer-in-chief' for carrying
out the works, his father being in no way whatever

associated with him. It is right that this fact should be

borne in mind, as a succession of writers have credited

George Stephenson with the construction of the first of

our existing `great railways,'--the first railway connecting

London with a distant seat of industry. In some inac

crn.-ate works the ` London and Birmingham Railway ' is

spoken of as having been constructed by George
Stephenson, in others by George Stephenson and Son, in
others by Messrs. Stephenson. The line was, however,

constructed by Robert Stephenson alone, and to him is

   " As public interest may be gra      cessary plans, sections, and book of
tified, and undesirable discussion ob
viated, by the publication of the       reference for the proposed railway
agreement just alluded to, it is here   from Birmingham to London, and to
printed.
                                        do everything that is necessary for
          `Birmingham: Sept. 18, 1830.  that purpose in time to comply with
` Memorandum of Agreement entered       the Standing Orders of the House of

   into between Messrs. George Ste      Commons, so as to enable the soli
   phenson and Son, of . the one part,
   and the Committee of the London      citors to insert the necessary notices
   and Birmingham Railway Com           in the newspapers during three weeks
   pany, of the other part.
                                        before the sitting of Parliament, and
   `First, the said George Stephenson   to affix necessary notices on the
and Son undertake and agree, so far     doors of the several sessions houses
as their best and utmost exertions
will enable them, to make the ne        at the next Quarter Sessions, and to
                                        deposit the plan and book of refer
                                        ence, &c., with the clerks of the

                                        peace of the several counties, and in

                                        the Private Bill Office, on or before

                                        the 24th day of October next, and in

168  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                      [OIL IX.

due the entire merit of overcoming all the gigantic ob

stacles to its construction.

    Robert Stephenson made three distinct surveys for the
London and Birmingham line, besides several minor
surveys of different portions of the country, for the
purpose of ascertaining whether the route could not be
improved. The first survey was made in the autumn of

1830. In 1831 a second line was marked out, almost

identical with the one eventually executed. The plans and

sections having been deposited, and the requisite amount
of shares subscribed for, an application was made to Par
liament, and a Bill to enable the Company to make their
proposed railway was read the first time on February 20,

 every other respect to comply with     " (Signed) John Corrie, on behalf
 the Standing Orders of the Houses
 of Parliament, so far as the duty of   of the London and

 an engineer extends.                   Birmingham                   Com
                                        pany.
    `In consideration of which the                                   -

 Committee agree to pay to Mr.          Geo. Stephenson.
 George Stephenson the sum of seven
 guineas a day during the time that     Rob. Stephenson.
 he shall be occupied in the business,
 and to Mr. Robert Stephenson the       Witriess to the signature,
 sum of five guineas a day during            `Josiah Corrie.'
 such time as he shall be employed    it,
in the business, and to pay the usual          `The appointment made legally

 charges to surveyors employed by                               a itbinding by this unartistic and loosely
                                                                                  it
 Messrs. Stephenson and Son, and to     drawn agreement, was an appoint
pay to Messrs. Stephenson and Son       ment of George and Robert Ste
the usual travelling expenses.
                                        phenson to lay out--n0t to construct
    ` And the said George Stephenson
and Son agree that Mr. Brunton          and make ---the contemplated line.
shall be the resident engineer at the
London end, and fully undertake         It referred only to the su-rvey and
and bind themselves not to be con       parliamentary engineering. In the

cerned in any line of railway what      following year was superseded by
ever that can he injurious to this
Company's line, or any part of          another agreement. It was, there
during such time as they are em
                                        fore, in reality most unimportant
ployed as engineers to this Com
                                        feature of the history of the London
pany.
                                        and Birmingham line; but                      has

                                        misled numerous writers into think

                                        ing that the elder Stephenson was
                                        united with the younger in designing

                                        and carrying to triumphant comple

                                        tion the vast engineering operations

                                        on the railway in question.

1830.]  THE LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM LINE.     169

1832. The third survey was made in the autumn fol

lowing the last date.

The two first surveys were no slight addition to the

labours and responsibilities of a young engineer, with the

construction of two lines of railway already on his hands,

besides the superintendence of a .large engine-factoryI in

Northumberland, and extensive mining operations in
Leicestershire. In every parish through which Robert

Stephenson passed, he was eyed with suspicion by the

inhabitants, and not seldom was menaced with violence.

The landed gentry were not alone in expressing aversion

to a set of men tramping through their fields, and pro
posing to drive a road, with their leave or without
                                            a
across their property. The aristocracy regarded thea

irruption as an interference with territorial rights. Theit,

humbler classes were not less exasperated, as they feared

the railway movement would injure those industrial in

terests by which they lived. To the residents of market

town on turnpike road, with its ten or fifteen coaches
        `a
                             a
per diem, dropping passengers at its chief hotels, rail

way engineer and ruiner of trade were convertible

terms.  Suppose railroads answered,' asked critics,

`what would be the result? would not the wealthier

residents of the neighbourhood invariably travel up to

London to make their purchases, and leave the poor

country shopkeepers to starve?  '

   Nor was the opposition confined to the rural population.
In London, journalists and pamphleteers, whilst they

professed to discuss the new project dispassionately and

`without prejudice,' distributed criticisms which at the

time of their delivery were manifestly absurd, and pro

phecies which time has signally falsified.

170  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.       [C1I. IX.

    ` Investigator ' * (in 1831), taking for the motto of his

pamphlet ` No argument like matter of fact is,' undertook

to prove by facts, that a railroad between Birmingham
and London could not answer. The success of the

Liverpool and Manchester Railway he accounted for by
the peculiarities of the trade between those two towns,
and maintained that the same system of locomotion
which was admirably adapted for bales of cotton wool
would fail when employed for the general convenience of

the public.
   Touching on the dangers and inconveniences of railway

travelling ` Investigator ' says --

   That there are other dangers, and most formidable ones too,

besides accidents to the engine, there have been too many and

too melancholy proofs on the Liverpool and Manchester line.
There was the late Mr. Huskisson, there was the engineer's own
brother, and there has been a number of others; the amount of

whom there is said to be considerable reluctance in disclosing.

In short, during the few months that elapsed between September

15, and December 15, 1830, there occurred more fatal accidents

upon the thirty-one miles of railway between Liverpool and
Manchester, than upon all the road between Birmingham and
London in as many years.'[-

   The causes of greater danger on the railway are several. A
velocity of fifteen miles an hour is in itself a great source of

danger, as the smallest obstacle might produce the most serious
consequences. If, at that rate, the engine, or any forward part
of the train, should suddenly stop, the whole would be cracked
by the collision like nutshells. At all turnings there is a danger

   * Remarks on the Proposed Rail-    `No argument like matter of fact is.'
way between Birmingham and Lon-       By Investigator. London: T. M.
don, proving by Facts and Argu-
ments that that Work would cost       Richardson, 23 Cornhill; J. Ridg
Seven Millions and a Half; that it
                                      way, 169 Piccadilly.
would be a Burden upon the Trade          1- The reader must bear in mind

of the Country, and would never pay.  `Investigator's' motto --` No argu
                                      ment like matter of fact is.'

1831.]  OPPOSITION TO RAILVVAY TRAVELLING.  171

that the latter part of the train may swing off the rails; and, if

that takes place, the most serious consequences must ensue before
the whole train can be stopped. The line, too, upon which the
train must be steered admits of little lateral deviation, while a

stage coach has a choice of the whole roadway. Independently
of the velocity, which in coaches is the chief source of danger,
there are many perils on the railway: the rails stand up like

so many thick knives, and anyone alighting on them would
have but a slight chance for his life. On a road crowded with
engines, the escape from the rails would avail him but little, as
before he could recover himself from a slight stunning, a train
on the next rails would be up, and before the conductor could
arrest the progress of that he would be cut asunder. . . . .
. . . Another consideration which would deter travellers,
more especially invalids, ladies, and children, from making use
of the railways, would be the want of accommodation along the
line, unless the directors of the railway chose to build inns, as
commodious as those on the present line of road. But those
 inns the directors would have in part to support also, because
they would be out of the way of any business except that arising
 from the railway, and that would be so trifling and so accidental

 that the landlords could not afford to keep either a cellar or a

 larder.

    Commercial travellers, who stop and do business in all the
 towns, and by so doing render commerce much cheaper than it
 otherwise would be, and who give that constant support to the
 houses of entertainment which makes them able to supply the
 occasional traveller well and at a cheap rate, would, as a matter of
 course, never by any chance go by the railroad; and the occa
 sional traveller, who went the same route for pleasure, would
 go by the coach-road also, because of the cheerful company I and
 comfortable dinner.

     Not one of the nobility, the gentry, or those who travel in

 their own carriages, would, by any chance, go by the railway.
 A nobleman would really not like to be drawn at the tail of a
 train of waggons, in which some hundreds of bars of iron were
 jingling with a noise that would drown all the bells of the
 district, and in the momentary apprehension of having his
 vehicle broke to pieces and himself killed or crippled by the
 collision of those thirty-ton masses.

172  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [GEL IX.

   An unfair attempt has been made in various quarters
to throw obloquy on the aristocratic classes of the

country, by representing them as the especial opponents
of the earlier railways. As the chief owners of property
required by the projectors of the new roads, the functions
of opposition were principally discharged by them; but

their antagonism to the novel system was admired and
encouraged by all sections of society. Corporations of

provincial boroughs, tradesmen of petty towns, small
yeomen, trustees and mortgagees of turnpike tolls, in
short, all holders of vested interests, were zealous to

crush at their first appearance undertakings which were
sure to disturb and not unlikely to prejudice existing
arrangements. Small proprietors fought against the
Stephensons to their utmost. The great ones of the earth

could do no more. At this date the reader laughs at

` Investigator's ' arguments and fears; but thirty years
since, before railways were affairs of familiar knowledge,
many a reader who now despises ` Investigator ' would

have thought him very clever, sound, and practical.

   In spite of the prevailing antagonism to railways the
Bill for the London and Birmingham line passed the
Commons in 1832 after hard fighting. In the House of

Lords, however, the result was different. The Lords'
Committee came to the conclusion, `That the case for

the promoters of the Bill having been concluded, it does

not appear to the Committee that they have made out
such a case as would warrant the forcing of the proposed

railway through the lands and property of so great a
proportion of the dissentient landowners and proprietors.'

   In the parliamentary progress of the Bill, Robert

Stephenson was subjected to searching cross-examination,

1832.] LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM CONTEST OF 1832.                                    173

but, ready as well as resolute, quick as well as patient, he
was a difficult witness for opposing lawyers to deal with."'

    " The following extracts from the      ` " Do you mean to state that the
evidence will give the reader some
idea of the duels fought on this oc        line so marked on the section has

casion between Robert Stephenson           not always invariably been considered
                                           at all times as the surface line F "
and Mr. Harrison, who, in conjunc
tion with Mr. D. Pollock, appeared            ` " Certainly, in my practice it
as counsel for the trustees of the
                                           never has."
tolls of the Sparrow's Herne Road.            ` " Then how came you to describe

` Cross-ervamincd by Jllr. Ilarrison.      it as the surface ? "

                                             ` " It is the surface of the em

` " That piece of board would also         bankment before the rails are put

have to be put on the top of the em        on it."
                                              ` " \Vill not common people sup

bankments P"                               pose that the surface of the embank
` " It would."
                                           Iment means the   top of  the  place  on
` " The line given in the section                            travel  ?"
                                           which the things
deposited with the clerk of the            ` " do not think any engineer
                         that will ulti    would ever so consider it; they al
peace, is not the line  the railroad F "
mately be the line of                      ways look on the line laid down in
. " It is the surface of the em
                                           the sections as top of the cuttings."
bankment before the metaling is
                                             ` " If every one of the engineers

laid on."                                  have made a mistake in supposing
   ` " Any embankment would be
                                           the direct contrary, should you at
two feet   "  higher  than what     is de  tribute it to their ignorance ? "
scribed ?
` " Yes."                                     ` " There was not a single discus

` " Have not marks been put in             sion that took place on that point
                                           with me. The engineers that were
describing the line of the surface ?"
   ` " Yes."                               employed to make the estimate went
   ` " And have they not since been        through the estimate without asking

Iscratched out P "                         a question as to what the line repre
   ` " believe not."
   ` " Were they on the section de         sented."
                                           If` " That is not an answer to my
                                           question.   all the engineers em
pos` it"edYeins."the other House?"         ployed by the opposers of the Bill to

" " Any individual who looks at            examine the line as to the injury done

                                           to their land, and estimate the quan

the section will see that this line is     tity of it taken by the embankments
                                           --if theyhave all considered that that
ultimately not to' be the surface line
by two feet P "                            is the surface on which the carriages

  "It` is the line that is always          run, do you attribute that to their
                                           ignorance ? "
put on the section to represent the
                                              ` " Not to their ignorance, but to
surface invariably."
                                           a disposition to increase the cost of
  I` " Do you mean to state that? "
                                           the work."
   ` " do not know a single excep
tion to it."

174          LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                               [(J1I. IX.

   It was, however, a trying ordeal---- trying alike to his
temper and his knowledge. His want of professional

   ` " Do you think that they would      I I` " do not know that that may
                                         be the ease.         am only evzgineer for
Iwilfully do that P "
   ` " do not believe that any im        the time being."

partial engineer would suppose the          ` " As long as you and your father

Iline to mean anything different to      are the engineers, you are the people
                                         to decide what engines shall be used
what suppose it to mean." '              by other people ? "

On a subsequent day Mr. Harrison,          If` " there is any fear of preju
                                         Idiced opinions being given by us,
having in vain endeavoured to show
that Robert Stephenson's ` borings '

were wrong, and his estimates for        apprehend the committee may easily

bridges and arches altogether incor      find a remedy by calling in other

reet, proceeded to throw out insinu      eng` in"eeTrhsereto  decide  the point."
                                                              would   be no remedy
ations which were immediately seized     the Bill? "                                in

upon by Dr. Lardner, and formed an       ` " He would still be the Com

important feature of his well-known

attack upon the Stephensons in the       pany's engineer."
` Edinburgh Review ' for October,           ` " The engines to be used are to

1832.                                    be approved of by the engineer for

   ` " In page 115 there is a clause     the railroad company; and there is

preventing any horse being driven        no appeal from this decision, if he
or ridden on the railroad. Is that to
                                         says he does not like the engines?"
preclude the use of horses in dragging
                                          I` " may not be the engineer for
Icarriages on the railroad ? "           I Ithe Company.
                                                                      apprehend  may
   ` " suppose it is."
. ` " Are persons to be allowed to       be done with the railroad as soon as
                                         Ithe railroad is completed, if am
Idraw railway carriages by horses? "     Ithere so long.
    ` " conceive that is totally in      resident engineer." '        may not be the

compatible with a line where loco        On the next day Mr. Harrison re

motive engines are used."                sumed his cross-examination of the

  ` " All the engines are to be ap       young engineer, whom, in his zeal
                                         for his clients, he had depicted as
proved by the Company?"                  one who would recommend his own
` " Yes."
` " The engines are not to be ex
clusively furnished by the . Com         inferior locomotives, and exclude by
pany ? "                                 base influence the superior produc
` " No."                                 tions of rival manufacturers. On

` " Are you and your father great        the present occasion the colmsel

manufacturers of steam-engines ? "       endeavoured to break down Robert

`    "  \Ve  do manufacture them."       Stephenson's evidence on the subject
`    "  For  this railroad, do you not,  of `friction,' by the statements ad

                                         vanced in his `Answer' to Mr.

and for others?"                         Wa`lk"erY'os uresptoartetdthreferomyearssixbteefeonre. to
` " For any railroad."
   ` " You are the
to be applied to ? "  persons  who  are  twenty feet of elevation is equal to
                                         a mile. Is it not more than that? "

experience was superciliously suggested, his answer was

-~a curt statement of what he had done. It was insinuated
1832.]                                                                                                      -             -- -1cw

                                      INSIN UATION S OF COUNCIL.

          I` " am quite convinced it is not                   have stated                at eight. He took
                                                                                         it
          more."
                                                                                                              :

                                                                                                                         it
          ` " Then it is not twenty-six ? "                   at twelve or thirteen upwards of

          I` "I                       it is not."             thirty per cent. more than experi

          `"        am quite sure     you, in order           ments proved to me to be correct."``
                    only caution                                   " He took at twelve. Did you
                                                                                         it

          that you may be supposed to commit                  not in your answer put                                   at in
                                                                                                               is
          yourself too hastily to that answer.                200 ?"                                                   it
          l)o you stand by that answer? "                          " Yes; which
                                                                                                                                        1
             ` " That elevation --that equal                                                                           the friction

          to mile going round. It depends            is,      actually existing on the coal wagons
                                                              in the north of England on very
          a                                                                                                            a

          very much on the friction of the                    bad raih-cad, when compared with

          wag"onWs hematployed    on  the railroad."          good ones. On the Liverpool and
                                the    friction on
          ``                                                  Manchester am quite sure there
                                                          a                  P                                         it 1
            I?                                                                                                                       is
          level "           is                                not wagon moving with the frictionaI
                                                 is               `8
              " It varies from 6lbs. to 9lbs.                         a                     1
                                                              of lbs. to ton."
                                                                         " \Vhat would that be instead of
          \Vhat consider 8lbs. amply suf                               to 200 "

          ficient for friction on level ground.               1          " It will be to 280."

          am quite sure am overstating the                      ``       " Instead of its being
I                     is I
                         I
       ``
         a                         8
          thing when say lbs."                                                                                         to 200,

              "Eight equal to the friction                    the calculation you put at, you

for ton, you say?"                                            now put        is it       at to 280?"
              " Eight                                                                    calculated to give an un
                                supposed to be so.                " It                  1
                       a is                               it it
                                        a
You might overhang pulley and                               I favourable impression. The reason
                                                                      `
would draw ton. The experiments                                        put at to 200 at that part was
                                                                         it

                                                                                    1

I         have made with wagons make                          this ---that the wagons on the rail
                                                              roads in the north of England are
considerably less. They are liable to                         employed there with axle-trees of

get           out of  order."
              " You     abide
          `                     by    your           answer,  considerably larger size than in the

and state distinctly                       not twenty         Liverpool and Manchester. There
                                it
six feet, but sixteen and twenty?"  is                        the bearings are put on the outside
     " Yes, do."
     " Now you published some cal``II           P             of the wheels; the size of the axle
                           it,
culations on did you not "                                    trees are reduced to each one inch
      " No, did not."
     " Did you not publish some ex                            and three-quarters. For coal wagons

          ``                                                  in the north of England the diameter

                                                              of the axle-trees                                a       a full three
                                                                                                                   is
periments in reply to the report made                         inches."
by Mr. James VVa-1ker "                                                  " These are
                                      P                         `1 `      to 280 "         reasons                     for taking          it
                                           1
          ``  " Yes."                                         at             ;
              " Was                                                             P
                  I         not put at to 200 on                         " Yes from the improvement
                        it
a         plain surface? "                                    in the wagons."
                                                                    " The construction of wagons in
          `   " If     had taken the greatest                   `

advantages of the circumstances that                          the north creates                                greater degree of
                                                              friction "
were allowed me in reply to Mr.                               `
                                                                          P
James \Valker's report,                    I         should              " Most decidedly."

176                      LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                    [OIL IX.

that he and his father would supply the petitioning
Company with inferior locomotives, and shut out from
competition the superior engines of rival manufacturers.
His reply was that the Company would know how to
take care of themselves.

   Of the exertions made by Robert Stephenson to get
the Bill through Parliament the following story will aflbrd

` "That was the report of Mr.             ` " Have you ever," was the en

James Walker on the Manchester            quiry, "constructed a public work
and Liverpool Railway? "
                                          of that sort yourself?"
   ` " Yes, it was."                        " " Yes; the Warrington Railway
   ` " The Court of Directors desired
                                          and the Leicester Railway."
                                          ` " What length is the Warring
him to take into consideration the        ton ? "

difierence between locomotive power       ` " Only five miles."
                          ?"
and stationary   engines                     ` " Is it
   ` " Yes."                              structed ? "                 or
                                                         constructing      con

` " He made a report, on which            ` " It is completed some time."

you made observations, putting it at      ` " VVhat is the length of the

1 to 200?"                                Leicester P "
   ` " Yes."                              ` " Sixteen miles."
` "You would not wish to be
Ibound by that? "                         ` " Is it now at work P "
   ` " Certairzly not ;                   ` " More than twelve or thirteen
                          am making
                                          miles of it ought to have been
calculations on  reeemf  facts."
                          you took  from  opened yesterday, but they deferred
   ` " At that   time
the Liverpool and Manchester ? "          it till the 9th of this month."
` " Mr. James Walker went to                 ` " Between what points is it ? "
                                             ` " Between the town of Leicester
the north of England by way of
                                          and the coal field of Swannington."
examining circumstances connected            ` " Where is Swannington ? "
with locomotive engines travelling        ` " Near Ashby de la Zouch.'

and stationary engines working               ` "` The only two you constructed
                                          yourself ? "
there. He took the friction at twelve
                                             ` " The only two under my own
and a half; and he cannot produce a

Isingle instance where it was twelve      charge." '
and a half.      took the friction of
                                          (Vide Mz-nutes of Eviwzce taken
wagons in the district he had been        before the Lords'  Committees to wlwm
examining." '                             was referred the
                                                             Bill, intituled, `An
   Unable to shake the witness, the
                                          Act for making a Railway from
counsel proceeded to suggest that so      Landon to Birmz-ngham.')

young a man necessarily lacked ex

perience, and was, indeed, merely

his father's puppet.

1832.]   CROSS-EXAMINATION.  177

an example. The opposing counsel directed all their
powers before the Commons' Committee to show that
Robert Stephenson was ignorant of the geological con
ditions of the country, and consequently proposed to
make his cuttings through the Tring Ridge at so small an
angle that the sides of the excavation would fall in upon
the way. The argument of course was that, since this

mistake had been made by the engineer, the estimates
were enormously beneath the sum required for the
undertaking, as the increase of the angle of a cutting
would greatly increase the labour and expense at which

it could be completed. It was to no purpose that Robert

Stephenson offered to stake his reputation that his cal
culations were reliable. The barristers ridiculed his as

surances, and the Committee were evidently impressed
by the objection. Leaving the Committee- room with his
examination still unfinished, though he had been subjected
for three days .to a cross-fire of questions, Robert Stephen
son took counsel within himself what he should do. He

remembered that there was at Dunstable a cutting through
the same formation. The cutting was Telford's work.

How could he ascertain the angle of Telford's cutting?
How could he establish the point? The question was
soon answered. He had not been in bed for four nights,
and he had work before him that would keep him in
town till past midnight; but nevertheless he determined
to visit Dunstable before again entering the Committee
room. At midnight he supped, and then had a short
nap, from which he roused himself to get into a post
chaise with his friend Mr. Thomas Longridge Grooch.
By dawn the two young men were at Dunstable. By
ten o'clock they were in counsel's chambers in London,

VOL. I.  N

178  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C11 IX.

with the intelligence that they could go into the Com
mittee-room and testify that the angle of Telford's cutting,
which had stood.the test of time, was the same as the
angle of the cuttings provided for in the estimates.

    But toil, patience, forbearance, were all thrown away.
The result of the enquiry, foreseen as it was by those
who were better acquainted with the animus of the
Committee, had not been anticipated by Robert Stephen
son, and he was deeply chagrined at the rejection. His
mortification was so manifest that Lord Wharncliffe, the

chairman of the Committee, took him aside and said with
characteristic kindness, ` My young friend, don't take
this to heart. The decision is against you; but you
have made such a display of power that your fortune is

made for life.' These words of sympathy and commen

dation, coming from a nobleman who, as one of the

`grand allies,' had been amongst his father's earliest

employers and patrons, went to the young man's heart,
and with emotion he often recalled them in after life,

when he reviewed the earlier battles of his career, or

himself held out an aiding hand to struggling merit.
   The adverse decision which called forth Lord Wharn

cliffe's generous sympathy was the signal for the enemies of
the two Stephensons to renew their efforts to make both
father and son the objects of public suspicion. Robert
Stephenson was no exception to the rule that envy is the

shadow of success. At this date it would be an un

grateful and a useless task to drag into notoriety the
persons who from private pique or professional jea
lousy used unworthy means to lower the reputation of the
two greatest engineers of this or any other age. Robert

Stephenson wisely paid no attention to malicious rumours.

1832.]  MEETING AT THATCHED HOUSE TAVERN.  179

But when a distinguished scientific writer, who had been
misled by detractors, availed himself of his position, on
the staff- of the ` Edinburgh Review,' to give the stamp of
authority to erroneous statements, Mr. Charles Lawrence,
the chairman of the ` Liverpool and Manchester Railway,'
officially published a complete refutation of the writer's

groundless accusations!`

  - Notwithstanding the rejection of their Bill, the projec
tors of the London and Birmingham Railway Company
were not disheartened. On Friday, July 13, 1832, the
first Friday after the rejection of the petition, a public
meeting of persons favourably disposed to the Railway
was held at the Thatched House Tavern. Sixteen peers
and thirty-three members of the House of Commons were
present. The chairman of the Commons' Committee was
one of the representatives of the Lower House, and Lord
Wharnclifi-e, the chairman of the Lords' Committee, pre
sided at the meeting. Two resolutions were put and
carried unanimously. The first resolution, moved by the

_Earl of Denbigh, and seconded by Sir J. Skipwith, M. P.,

was

~That, in the opinion of this meeting a railway from London

to Birmingham will be productive of very great national
benefit.

   The second resolution, moved by the Earl of Aylesford,
and seconded by Sir Edward D. Scott, Bart., M. P., was

   That the Bill for effecting this important object having

passed the House of Commons after a long and rigorous exami
nation of its merits, it must be presumed that its failure in the
   "` Liverpool and Manchester Rail-  article in the ` Edinburgh Review '
way. Answer of the Directors to an    for October 1832. Liverpool, 1832.

                                      N2

180  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C1L IX.

House of Lords has arisen from apprehensions on the part of
landowners and proprietors respecting its probable effect on their
estates, which this meeting firmly and conscientiously believes to
be ill-founded.

   This demonstration had an immediate effect on the

country. It was felt by those who had opposed the

measure from jealous anxiety for the interests of pro

perty, that they had not much to fear from the new road,
when landed proprietors of high character and hereditary

possessions could be found to support such resolutions. It

was learnt also that Lord Sefton and Lord Derby, the
strenuous opponents of the Liverpool and Manchester

line, had become so far converts to the railway system as
to have been supporters of the London and Birmingham
project. The opposition, which refused to be influenced

by such authority, was found not unwilling to listen to
other considerations. The bribe reached where reason

could find no entrance. In some cases enormous sums of

money were paid for the acres of obstinate landowners.
The consequence was that in the session of 1833, on the

renewal of the petition (Robert Stephenson having in the

meantime made a third survey of the line) a Bill was

obtained, giving the directors power to construct their

line.

   It now remained for the directors to appoint an engineer

for the accomplishment of the task. Robert Stephenson
had high hopes of getting the post. His energy in making

the survey, and his conduct as a witness before commit
tees, had won for him many new and powerful friends.
But he was still young--very y0ung--to be engineer-in

chief to such an undertaking. In the directory, there
were of course several persons who honestly mistrusted

young genius.

     ._. .  7--_...._-__ 4..     __

1833.]  REMOVES FROM NEVVCASTLE TO LONDON.           181

   Writing to Robert Stephenson on May 28, 1833, Mr.

Creed, one of the secretaries of the Railway, says --

`Nothing is said as to the appointment of engineer or

Isolicitor, but think you may be easy on that head.

You have friends here and at Birmingham who appreciate

your merits and services.' It was not, however, till just

four months after the date of this letter that Robert

Stephenson signed the  contract   that secured   to  him the
post for which he had  fought so  zealously.         his note
                                                In

_book, under date September 20, 1833, is the following

entry: `Signed contract with the London and Birming

ham Railway directors, before Mr. Barker, at the Hum

mums, Covent Garden. Dined with Stanhope directors.'

On receiving the appointment of engineer-in-chief to the

London and Birmingham Railway, Robert Stephenson

broke up his modest establishment in Greenfield Place

and took a comfortable house on Haverstock Hill, Hamp

stead Road, where he continued to reside for many years.

From this time London became his home, and though

he frequently visited Newcastle (the spirit of which enter
prising and noble town had contributed greatly to form

his character) and continued till his death to superintend
the affairs of the engine manufactory, he never again had

a home on the banks of the Tyne.

His residence in Newcastle had been broken by repeated

periods of absence, during which he superintended works

for his father, made trips to London and the continent,

constructed the Warrington line, and the Leicester and
Swannington Railway, surveyed the route for the London
and Birmingham line, and directed the first operations at
the Snibston colliery. These periods of absence reduce the
time of his Newcastle life to a comparatively short term.

182  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                   [CIL IX.

Still into that brief space much work and happiness hada
                                                            it,
been compressed.
   Numerous engagements left him little time for society.

His domestic life, therefore, was strictly private, only
three or four close friends being admitted to his house.
One of those few intimate associates still lives to recall
the happy evenings they occasionally spent in Greenfield
Place, with music, talk, and cigars.

   To these evening parties the pupils at the works were
frequently invited. To limit the number of these pupils
it was soon found necessary to raise the premium. Even
at the increased rate there were found too many candi
dates for admission to `the works ;' and Robert Stephen
son, whose sense of duty would not allow him to pocket
a premium and give just nothing in return for reso
lutely declined to receive more than such number of
pupils as he conscientiously believed would profit by the
opportunities offered them of acquiring information.

   Inasmuch (Robertwrotefrom Dieppe,July11, 1833, to his partI
ner Mr. Richardson) as my own feelings are concerned, should
have no objections to receiving another apprentice into our esta

blishment. Theobj ections that exist are these. We haveat present

as many, indeed more, young men than we can sufficiently employ.

If we increase the number (which we have very frequent op

portunities of doing) we should only be doing the young men

injustice, because they would not have proper and suflicient ex

perience to learn the profession. They would be inadequately

employed, and would consequently contract habits not calcu

lated to advance them in after life. We are at present under

an engagement to take friend of Mr. Lock's (the Marquis of
Stafford's agent), and when he comes our oflice will be really
     I
               a
too full, even when look forward to the London and Birming

ham Railway going on. Taking young men, although may be
                                                  it

a profitable part of our business, one that incurs great responis

sibility, which we feel  is  now as great as  it  ought to be. If

i~ -~

1833.]  OLD PUPILS.                                       183

these objections had not existed, it would have afforded  both
                                                          man
my father and self very great pleasure to take any young
introduced by you.

    One of the pleasant features of Robert Stephenson's
career was the strong personal attachment he formed for
his pupils when they were young men of capacity and

character. He never forgot or lost sight of them. A

pupil of the ` right sort ' was sure to win his approval and
notice, and the pupil who had so earned his good opinion
was sure to reap advantage from it. On the other hand,
Robert Stephenson never considered himself either bound,
or at liberty, to recommend for advancement an old

Iapprentice, when he could not do so honestly. ` can do

nothing for you, unless you like to stop here as an

ordinary workman,' he said to more than one pupil when
his time was out: but then the young men to whom he

so spoke merited no other treatment.

184  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.           [GIL X.

                           CHAPTER X.

CONSTRUCTION OF THE LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM RAILWAY.

                           (ETAT 29-34.)

     Appointment as Engineer-in-Chief to the London and Birmingham
     Line -- Contract Plans -- Drawing-Ofiice in the Cottage on the

     Edgeware Road, and subsequently at the Eyre Arms,' St. John's

     VVood--Hea1th and Habits of Life-- Staff of Assistant and Sub
     Assistant Engineers--The principal Contractors --Primrose Hill

     Tunne1--Blisworth Cutting--Wolverton Embankment and Viaduct
     --- Kilsby Tunnel -- Interview with Dr. Arnold at Rugby--Conduct

     and Character of Navvies --Anecdotes --Robert Stephenson proposes

     the Extension of the Line from Camden Town to Euston Square

     Proposition first rejected and then adopted by Directors-- Act of
     Parliament obtained for Extension of the Line -- The Incline from

     Camden Town to Euston Square originally worked by Stationary
     Engines and Ropes -- Lieut. Lecount's Comparison of Labour

     expended on the London and Birmingham Railway, and Labour

     expended on the Great Pyramid-- Conduct of a certain Section of
     the Directors to Robert Stephenson --Opening of the Line --Dinner

     at Dee's Royal Hotel, Manchester --Robert Stephenson's Anger with

     a Director--- Dinner and Testimonial given to Robert Stephenson at

     D1mchurch--Br1me1 uses Robert Stephenson's System of Drawing

     on the Great Western-- Robert Stephenson's Appointment as Con
                        .
     sulting Engineer.

THE labours of three surveys having been accomplished,
        the inordinate demands of landholders of every
rank and condition having been satisfied, and a defeat as
iniquitous on the part of the conquerors as any to be found
in the chronicles of parliamentary warfare having been
sustained, the London and Birmingham Railway Company
had at length obtained their Bill. They had gained their

                                                                         I

1833.]  ENGINEER-IN-CHIEF.       185

point on a new trial: but when Parliament reverses the

unjust decision of a preceding session, the injured party
has still to pay the costs of previous injustice. The sum
of £72,869 recorded in the Company's books as paid for
obtaining their Act of Incorporation is an eloquent me

morial of a conflict that stirred Westminster thirty years

since.

   The Bill however was won, the Royal assent being

granted on May 6, 1833. Mr. Isaac Solly, the first
chairman, was succeeded in I834 by Mr. George Carr

Glyn, M.P., under whose able direction the line was
completed, and was brought to its present high state of
prosperity. The appointment of an engineer was the
next affair for consideration. Three years' indefatigable
attention to the interests of the Company gave Robert

Stephenson a claim upon their gratitude. His display

of capacity during successive examinations before par

liamentary committees had raised him high in the esteem

of his profession and the public. A strong party, com

posed principally of his father's Liverpool antagonists,

spared no pains, however, to snatch from him the ap

pointment of engineer-in-chief.  ` He is a promising

young man, but still he is only a young man,' these
gentlemen repeated in every quarter, forgetting that public

railways were young things, and that the men best

qualified to construct the new roads were all young men--
the pupils of George Stephenson, who was himself still in

the middle period of life.

Fortunately Robert Stephenson's enemies were borne

down by more prudent and more honest directors; and

on September 7, 1833, the board resolved -- ` That Mr.

Robert Stephenson be appointed engineer-in-chief for the

186  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.         [OIL X.

whole line at a salary of £1,500 per annum, and an addi

tion of £200 per amium to cover all contingent expenses,
subject to the rules and regulations for the engineers'
department, as approved by the respective committees.' *

On Mr. Brunel's appointment as engineer to lay down

the Great Western Railway, with an annual stipend of
£2,000, Robert Stephenson's smaller salary was increased
to the same amount, the directors of the London and

Birmingham line rightly thinking that their character was

concerned in treating their engineer not less liberally than

Brunel was treated by a similar association.

   In their next published report, dated September 19,

1833, the directors thus speak of their engineer's appoint
ment ---` The directors, considering it indispensable that,

in the execution of the works, one engineer should have

entire direction, and that his time and services should be

exclusively devoted to the Company, have under these con

ditions appointed Mr. Robert Stephenson engineer-in-chief
for the whole line ; and they are persuaded that to no one

could this charge be more safely or more properly confided.
He has received instructions to stake out the line without

delay, and the directors have reasons to expect that the

railway will be completed in about four years from the
commencement of the work.'

Having at length secured the post, Robert Stephenson

quitted Newcastle and came to the scene of his next five

years' labour. For a short time he resided in a furnished

____.i~cottage in St. John's Wood; but as soon as it was fitted
                                                                                                                       .
    " The above resolution was, for
the purpose of this work, extracted  at the time of his lamented death
from the Minutes of the London       was chairman of the Company, to
                                     which at its first outset he acted as
and Birmingham Railway, by the
late Admiral Moorsom, R.N., who      secretary.

     _-*2;-1'" -' - ~  ~-            _

                       __

1833.]  STATE OF HEALTH.  187

up and ready for his reception, he moved into the house
on Haverstock Hill, which continued to be his home as

long as his wife lived.
    He had undertaken a stupendous task. Up to that

time no railway of similar magnitude had been attempted.
The line from Liverpool to Manchester was by comparison
a trifling work. Its length was little more than a quarter
of the length of the new road, and its most important
works, including the Sankey viaduct (with nine arches
each of fifty feet span thrown over the Sankey valley, and

running seventy feet above the Sankey canal), its principal
tunnel, 2,250 yards long, and its firm highway over the
bogs of Parr Moss and Chat Moss, are in respect of mag
nitude not to be compared with the Kilsby tunnel, the
Blisworth cutting, and the Wolverton embankment and

 viaduct.

   A man of iron nerve would have experienced some un

 easiness at the commencement of such an undertaking.
 But Robert Stephenson, unlike his father, had throughout
life to contend with a distrust of himself, which was
 partly due to innate modesty of disposition, and partly

 attributable to a delicate nervous organisation. Though
 the climate of South America had saved him from pul

 monary consumption, he had by no means acquired the
 soundness of constitution which young men ordinarily
 enjoy. He was never a really strong man; and the
 exertions of the four preceding years brought him to
 London in 1833 in a very unsatisfactory condition of

 health.

    Had circumstances left him free to follow his own incli

 nations, Robert Stephenson, instead of taking a conspicuous
 position in London society, would have passed his whole

188      LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL X.

life at Newcastle in comparative retirement. Naturally
no man was more averse to the turmoil of public life;
no man more prized the tranquillity of home. He had

also become intensely fond of the mechanical part of his
profession. His labours in the Newcastle factory had been
attended with so much genuine pleasure, .that he did

not without reluctance give them up for a more am

bitious career; and in his later years he repeatedly de

clared to his intimate companions the regret he felt at not

having remained at Newcastle as a builder of locomotives,

though he had risen to be the most successful civil en
gineer of his time.

   The engineer wished to ascertain with accuracy the
amount of the work before him. To effect this, before

                                                                                                                             '

cutting a turf, he went over every inch of ground, and
endeavoured to calculate the exact cost of every opera

tion necessary for the accomplishment of his task. Hither

to, in laying down railways, engineers had been accus

tomed to do their work piecemeal, making a commence

ment, working up to difficulties, and then seeing how those

difficulties should be overcome. In laying down the Liver

pool and Manchester Railway, George Stephenson had

at the outset of the undertaking only a general notion of

the labour before him. The details were not considered

till their consideration could no longer be deferred.

Robert Stephenson saw that this plan of leaving each day

to take care of its own evils was little calculated for

so vast an undertaking as the London and Birmingham
Ifline.
         the 112 miles of the proposed railway between

Camden Town and Birmingham were to be completed

within four or five years, the works must be advanced at

various points simultaneously, and the engineer-in-chief

         -5-1-$1--3

1833.]  CONTRACT PLANS FOR THE NEW LINE.  189

must, at their commencement, have an accurate know

ledge of their minutest details.
    Robert Stephenson also resolved on making plans of

every part of the entire line, with unprecedented minute
ness and completeness of detail. He not only had a full
survey made, showing every natural feature of the route,
but prepared complete drawings for every work that
was to be executed, in all its details, accompanied with

full descriptions and specifications and accurate calcula
tions of all the labour and material it would require. As
 each portion of the line was thus mapped out it was let
 to a contractor, who engaged to complete the work for

 a certain sum, and at the same time specified the exact

 sum charged for each portion of the contract. In those
 days there were no gigantic contractors, a contract for
 £100,000 being regarded as very large. Men who in
  he course of a few years made enormous fortunes were
 then modest speculators, and had not sufiicient funds in
 hand to keep a regiment of ` navvies ' at work for more
 than a month. The first contractors on the London and

 Birmingham line were paid monthly, and in facilitating
 these monthly payments the accuracy of the contract plans
 was of the greatest service. As the end of each month

  came round, the assistant-engineer appointed over each
 division of the line marked out the exact quantity of
  work each contractor had accomplished, and for that

  quantity payment was made.

     It is difiicult to give the reader any adequate idea of

  the labour expended on these plans; for they had not
  only to be made with the greatest attention to accuracy,
  every separate calculation relating to them being three
  or four times verified, but when they were made they had

190  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                    [OIL X.

to be multiplied. The original contract drawings, signed
by the engineer-in-chief and the contractor, were pre
served as documents of legal testimony; and of each of
them three copies were made--one for the use of ~the
committee, one for the engineer-in-chief, and one for the
assistant-engineer superintending the district in which the
work was situated. The entire line, as far as contracts were

concerned, was divided into thirty separate divisions, each

requiring distinct drawings, estimates, and specifications.

All these works, with two or three unimportant excep

tions, were let to various contractors between May 1834
and October 1835. - From these data it may be seen
that the demands on Robert Stephenson's drawing estab

lishment were very heavy. It was calculated that, for

eighteen months, as many ` as thirty drawings per week,
each requiring two days' work from one pair of hands,
were turned out from the engineer-in-chief's office.'

    Robert Stephenson was fortunate in having good subor

dinates. Reserving a district, extending nine miles from
Maiden Lane, Camden Town, for his own especial super

                                                                                                    .

vision, he divided the remaining 103 miles into four

districts, each district having an assistant-engineer to

superintend and each assistant-engineer being supported

by staff of three sub-assistants. For purposes of con
struction the line was thus apportioned--
     a
                     it,

                                               I.
     District N0.

   This district, reserved for the engineer-in-chief's especial
personal supervision, extended from Camden Town for about

nine miles, and on its completion comprised the Camden Town

station, the Primrose Hill tunnel, the tunnel under Kensal

Green, and the bridge over the River Brent. The principal
engineer of this district, under Mr. Stephenson, was John

1834.]  ENGINEER-IN-CHIEF'S STAFF.  191

Birkinshaw, who was assisted by Mortimer Young, whose place
was subsequently filled by Timothy Jenkins.

                          District N0. II.

   Assistant--engineer G. W. Buck; sub-assistant engineers, Mr.,

now Sir J. Charles Fox, F. Young, and Capt. Cleather, R.S.C.

This district, extending from Harrow to Tring (23 miles) con
cluded with the Watford tunnel.

                        District N0. III.

   Assistant-engineer, John Crossley; sub-assistant engineers,

S. S. Bennett, E. Jackson, J. Gandell, and M. Farrell. This

district, extending from Tring to Wolverton (22 miles), in
cluded the Tring cutting and the Wolverton viaduct.

                            District N0. IV.

    Assistant-engineer, Frank Forster, who (on his succeeding to
the post of assistant-engineer of District No. V.) was succeeded by
G. H. Phipps ; sub-assistant engineers, H. Lee, E. Dixon, C.

Lean, and J. Brunton. This district, reaching over Wolverton

and Kilsby (24 miles), included the Kilsby tunnel.

                                      District No. V.

    Assistant-engineer, Thomas Longridge Gooch, who (on his
appointment to be the chief-engineer of the Manchester and
Leeds Railway) was succeeded by Frank Forster; sub-assistant
engineers, John Reid, B. L. Dickenson, M. Monteleagre, R. B.
Dockray, and Lieut. P. Lecount, R.N. Extending from Kilsby
to Birmingham: this district had for its principal works the
Avon and Lawley Street viaducts.

    The foregoing table assigns more than three sub

assistant engineers to the three last districts. There were,

however, only three sub-assistants acting on any one
 district at the same time.

    Robert Stephenson's first drawing office, whilst he was

preparing the contract plans, was a small cottage standing
on land which the Company purchased, near the point
where the railroad passes under the Edgeware Road. This

modest tenement was soon found to be too small for the

192               LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                 [OIL X.

engineer's purpose. Luckily the Eyre Arms Hotel, St.

John's Wood, was just then vacant. The Company hired

it for their engineer's use, and `the great room,' familiar

to many of the London public as a place of assemblage

for lectures, soirées, and political business, was speedily

furnished with drawing-tables and peopled with between

twenty and thirty draughtsmen. Amongst the gentlemen

employed at the Eyre Arms was Mr. Cr. P. Bidder, who

recently filled the office of President of the Institution

of Civil Engineers.                .

     Eventually the line was let out in the manner indicated

by the following table:--

Name of Contract  Original Contractors   Dale          Second Contractor

Euston Extension VV. and L. Cubitt . Dec. 1835
Primrose Hill
                  . Jackson and Sheddon May 1834 The Company, Nov. 1834
Harrow        . . Nowell and Sons . May 1834`

Watford       . . Copeland and Harding May 1834
                  . W. and L. Cuhitt
King's Langley    . W. and L. Cubitt     . Sept. 1835
Berkhamstead      . W. and L. Cuhitt
                                         . Sept. 1835
Aldbury       .                          . Sept. 1835

            . . . T. Townsend .          . Sept. 1834 The Company, Oct. 1837
TLeriingg ton Buzzard . James Nowell .   . Sept. 1835
Stoke Hammond     . E. W. Norris
Bletchley .       . John Burge        .  . Sept. 1835
Wolverton .       . William Soars     .  . Sept. 1835
                                      .
                                         . Oct. 1834 The Company, June 1837
Wolverton Viaduct James Nowell .         . Feb. 1835
                  . William Soars .      . Oct. 1834 Craven& Sons, July 1835
Castlethorpe .    . William Hughes
Blisworth .                              . Feb. 1835 The Company, Dec. 1836
                  . John Chapman .
Bugbrook .                               . Feb. 1835
                  J.. John Chapman .
Stowe Hill .                             . Feb. 1835

Weedon        .   . Edward Boddington . May 1835 W. and      Simmons, May

Brock Hall .      J. J. and G. Thornton                1836
Lon Buckby
Kilsby L .        . J. and G. Thornton   . May  1835                      '
                                         . May  1835
                  . os. Nowell and Sons May
                                                1835 The Company, Feb. 1836
                  J. Samuel Hemming . Nov. 1835.The Company, Oct. 1837
Rugby .       .
                  . W. and . Simmons . Feb. 1835
Long Lawford  . . Samuel Hemming . Feb. 1835;The Company, Jan. 1838
Brandon

Avon Viaduct      . Samuel Hemmin        . Nov. 1835

Coventry      .   G1-eenshieldsandCudd Nov. 1834 The Company, May 1837
Berkswell     .   . Daniel Pritchard     . Nov. 1834

Yardley       . . Joseph Thornton        . Aug. 1834
Saltle . . . James Diggle . . Aug. 1834
Rea Yliaduct      . James Nowell .
                                         . Aug. 1834

1834.]           PRIMROSE HILL TUNNEL.  193

In this table may be seen the fortune attending the

engagements of several contractors. The chief contracts
--those, namely, for the tunnel at Primrose Hill, the

Kilsby tunnel, and the Blisworth cutting-returned to

the hands of the Company unfinished, and were perfected

by the Company without the intervention of contrac

tors: and in addition to these larger works, numerous

smaller operations were beyond the powers of the com

mercial agents. It is not difficult to account for this

collapse of contractors. Railway enterprise was still only

in its infancy, and, though allowance had been made in

estimates and contractors' agreements for a large rise in

the price of labour, iron, and other materials, that allow

ance fell far short of the enormous and rapid advances

made in the value of those commodities. Again, railway

work was new, and the engineers were scarcely more

prepared than the contractors for some of the difficulties

with which they had to contend.

   The Primrose Hill tunnel was one case of unexpected

difficulty. The tunnel, passing under the high ridge
between Hampstead and Primrose Hill, near Chalk Farm,

is driven through a formation of blue clay, the extreme

mobility of which, on exposure to moisture, offers peculiar

difficulties to engineers. Years before the construction of

the London and Birmingham line an attempt to drive a

tunnel through this formation had terminated in failure,

in consequence of the clay bearing down the brickwork.

Warned by this case, Robert Stephenson proceeded at

Primrose Hill with the greatest caution. As soon as a

length of about nine feet of the excavation was finished,

that portion of the tunnel was supported with strong

timbers, and carefully lined with brickwork in mortar

        VOL. I.  o

194  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL X.

before any more earth was removed. - Even this care,
however, was insufficient. The pressure of the clay first
forced out the mortar from the joints, and then crushed
the bricks of the arch. To meet this difiiculty, Robert
Stephenson used only the hardest possible bricks,
and laid them with Roman cement instead of mortar.

This cement dries and becomes hard much sooner than
mortar. The consequence of this change of material was
the construction of a firm and durable lining of brick
work before the weight of the clay above was able to
break in the walls of the passage. The experiment
having proved successful, Robert Stephenson made him
self doubly secure by making the brickwork much

thicker than the estimates proposed it should be. In
some portions of the Primrose Hill tunnel the thick

ness of the brickwork is only eighteen inches, but the
larger portion is laid with a thickness of twenty-seven
inches. And throughout the work costly Roman cement

is used. No reader of these particulars will be surprised

to learn that the difference between the estimated cost

and the eventual cost of the tunnel was £160,000. The
Primrose Hill contract was let for £120,000; it was

not accomplished without an outlay of £280,000. No
wonder, therefore, that the Company had to take back
the work from the contractors unfinished.

   Again, the operations of the Blisworth cutting ex
ceeded the limits of the estimates so far that there was
no prospect of their completion until the Company
parted with their contractor. This excavation, which

according to the estimate was to have contained 800,000

cubic yards, was not finished till nearly 1,000,000 cubic
yards of earth and rock had been removed. At this

1835.]  TROUBLES AT VVOLVERTON.  195

point of line 700 or 800 men, under the immediate com
mand of the assistant-engineer, Mr. Phipps, were for
many months continually employed. For blasting the
limestone, there was for some time a weekly consumption
of 2,500 lbs. of gunpowder.

   The Wolverton embankment, another of the contracts

which came back to the Company for completion, gave

the engineer much anxiety. In an embankment a mile

and a half long, exclusive of the Wolverton viaduct,
some difficulty was anticipated; but human foresight
could not have provided for all the disasters attending
its construction. The embankment on the north side

of the viaduct gave comparatively little trouble. Com
posed of blue clay, lias, limestone, gravel, and sand,
it stood well, except at one place where it slipped, not
from its own weakness, but because the ground gave

way beneath its enormous weight. On the south side
of the viaduct, however, a grievous mishap occurred,
in the form of `a slip,' that was not overcome for
months. No sooner was the way seen how to fill up

the slip, than Robert Stephenson was informed that the
troublesome embankment had caught fire. In its com
position was a portion of alum shale, containing sulphuret
of iron. This material decomposing afforded a striking
instance of spontaneous combustion. Great was the con

sternation of the peasants at beholding a railway on fire.
Roguery was, they were convinced, at the bottom of the

catastrophe.

   This same embankment was also the cause of difficulty

and litigation, which must be detailed at some length.

   It would be a mistake to suppose that, withithe pass

ing of their Act, there was an end of vexatious opposition

                                                                   02

196  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL X.

to the London and Birmingham Railway Company.

Beaten in Parliament, in a great measure through

their bribery being exceeded by the bribery of their
opponents, the persons interested in the Grand Junction
Canal would not consent to relinquish the fight without

another struggle.

   The 85th, 86th, and 87th sections of the Act had re
ference to the rights and privileges of the Grand Junction

Canal, over which the London and Birmingham Company
proposed to carry their railroad in the parish of Wol
verton. The 85th section provided that

   Nothing in the Act contained should diminish, alter, prejudice,
affect, or take away any of the rights, privileges, powers, or au
thorities, vested in the Company of proprietors of the Grand
Junction Canal, or authorise or empower the plaintiffs to alter
the line or level of the canal or towing-path thereto, or any part
thereof, or to obstruct the navigation of the canal or towing
path thereto, or any part thereof, or to obstruct the navigation
of the canal, or any part thereof, or to divert the waters therein,
or which supply the canal, or to injure any of the works thereof,
and that it should not be lawful for the plaintiffs to make any
deviation from the course or direction of the railway, as deli
neated in the maps or plans.`

    With regard to the bridges which the Railway Com

pany was empowered to make over the canal, the 86th

section enacted that they should be

    Good and substantial bridges over the canal and the towing
path thereto, with proper approaches to each such bridge, and
the soflit of each such bridge should be at least ten feet above
the top-water level of the canal at the centre of the water-way,
and no part of the arch over the towing-path should be less
than eight feet above the top-water level of the canal, and each
such bridge should be of such width and curve as should leave

   1 Railway and Canal Cases.  Nicholl, Hare, and Carrow's Reports,
vol. i. p. 224.

1835.]  LITIGATION.  197

a clear, uniform, and uninterrupted opening of not less than
twenty-two feet for the water-way, and eight feet for the towing
path under each bridge.

    The Railway Company was also

    Required during the progress of constructing each such
bridge over the canal, and of the necessary repairs or removal
thereof, from time to time, and at all times, to leave an open
and uninterrupted navigable water-way in the canal of not less
than sixteen feet in width, during the time of constructing and
putting in the foundation walls of the abutment of each of the
bridges, and of the new towing-path along the same, up to one
foot above the top-water level of the canal, and which time
should not exceed fifteen days; nor should less than twenty-two
feet for the water-way, and eight feet for the towing-path, be
left during the remainder of the period of constructing or re
pairing or removing each such bridge, and that the then present
towing-path should remain undisturbed until the new towing
path wall should be erected, and the grounds made good and
properly gravelled and open for the free passage of horses
under each bridge.

    The 87th section fixed certain penalties to be paid by
the Railway Company, and specified the manner in which

the Canal Company might recover such penalties, in case
any of the provisions of sections 85 and 86 should be

neglected. Such were the precautions taken by the
Act to preserve uninjured the property of the . Canal

Company.

    The country at Wolverton, through which the London

and Birmingham line now runs, lies high upon the south

bank. Southward of the canal the railway passes through
extensive cuttings until it arrives within 150 yards of

the water. At that point it enters upon an embank

ment which leads to the viaduct over the canal, and

extends 2,450 yards beyond it upon the northern side.
The entire embankment, comprising the small distance

198  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL X.

on the south side and the large extent on the north,

contains 927,000 cubic yards of earth. In order.to con

struct the 2,450 yards of the northward embankment,

Robert Stephenson decided to convey 600,000 cubic
yards of earth across the canal from the many deep
cuttings in the southward country. To convey this enor
mous quantity of earth across the water, it was necessary
to make a temporary passage of communication, the
construction of which involved the necessity of sinking

piles into the bed of the canal. In the December of 1834

the embankment on the south bank had been carried

within twenty yards of the water, and it was time to

commence the embankment on the opposite side.
Robert, therefore, took his preliminary steps for construct

ing the temporary bridge. At this juncture the Canal
Company intimated that the Act did not empower the

railway engineer to interfere with the water way.

Thinking the best way to avoid a dispute was by prompt
action, to change the discussion on what he might do into
a discussion on what he had done, Robert Stephenson
concentrated a strong body of engineers and navvies at
Wolverton, and without advertising his proceedings in the
papers or sending a notice of them to the office of the

Canal Company, proceeded to drive piles on the night of
December 23. Relays of men carried on the work
without intermission by day-light and torch-light. The
piles were driven into the bed of the river ; other piles or
supports were driven into the land on the north side, for
the purpose of sustaining the bridge; beams were laid
from the piles in the water to those on the north shore;

and by noon on December 25 (the toil having been
carried on through Christmas Eve into Christmas Day) the

1835.]  PETITION TO CHANCERY.  199

temporary bridge was completed. The indignation of the
Canal Company at such a desecration of Christmas Day
may be imagined. Forthwith the directors of the power
ful interest held counsel, and the result of their delibera

 tions was that on December 30 Mr. Lake, their engineer,
and a strong party of workmen, proceeded to the bridge
(which had been carried over the canal in little more
than a day and a half)` and removed the piles which
supported it.

    The next step was a petition on the part of the Rail
way Company to the Court of Chancery to restrain
the Canal Company from interfering with the operations
of the said Railway Company, and particularly from
 ` putting down, taking up, or destroying all or any or
either of the works to be made by the plaintiffs, their

servants or workmen, for the purpose of making, construct

ing, or otherwise hindering or preventing or delaying the
plaintiffs in making and constructing a passage of com
munication over and across the canal at Wolverton

aforesaid, in order to construct and complete the before
mentioned embankment, and for transporting, by means

of such communication, the earth and materials whereof

the same embankment is to consist, over and across the

canal,' the plaintiffs of course undertaking to observe all
the stipulations, conditions, and provisions, of the 85th
and 86th sections of their Act, so as not to injure the

property of the Canal Company.

   The case was argued, January 19, 1835, before the
Master of the Rolls, Sir C. C. Pepys, Mr. Pemberton and
Mr. Bacon being in support of the motion, and Sir C.

Wetherefl and Mr. Turner appearing on the other side.
' For the Canal Company it was not contended that the

200          LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C1L X.

piles and works of the temporary passage injured in any
way the bed of the canal, obstructed navigation, or im

peded the tow-paths. The defendants only maintained
that the Act gave the Railway Company no right to make
such bridge, and therefore they would not let the founda

tions of such temporary bridge be put in the bed of their

water-passage. It was true the 8th section of the Act

authorised the Railway Company to ` make or construct,

upon, across, under, or over the railway or other works,
or any lands, streets, hills, valleys, roads, railroads, or
tram-roads, rivers, canals, brooks, streams, or other

waters, such inclined planes, tunnels, embankments, aque

ducts, bridges, roads, ways, passages, conduits, drains,
piers, arches, cuttings, and fences,' as they should think
proper for the purpose of carrying out their undertaking.

But it was maintained that the 85th and 86th sections

restricted the privileges granted by the 8th clause.
   Of course the counsel in support of the prayer con

tended that, whereas the 8th clause authorised the plaintiffs

to construct any temporary bridge necessary for making

their line, the 85th and 86th clauses referred only to per

manent and not temporary bridges, and therefore could

in no way be construed as qualifying the prior permission.

Much to the delight of Robert Stephenson, who sate in

court throughout the hearing of the cause, the Master of

the Rolls in a lucid and admirable judgement granted the

injunction.  `

     But the most obstinate and costly of all the contests

involved in carrying out the works came off at the Kilsby

Tunnel, about six miles from the Rugby station. Robert

Stephenson's original plan was to lead his road from Bir

mingham to London by way of Northampton, but the inha

1835.]  THE KILSBY TUNNEL.  201

bitants of Northampton raised so effectual an opposition to

the scheme, that the engineer was necessitated to choose a

route along which adverse influence was less powerful.
   The consequence of the opposition was hurtful alike to

the town and the Company. The inhabitants of the town,

after repenting their folly, had to petition humbly for a

branch line, and the Company were driven to bore a way
for their rails through the Kilsby ridge at the stupendous
outlay of more than £320,000. The length of this costly
passage, situated about six miles on the London side of

the Rugby station, is just 2,400 yards. A few facts,

briefly stated, will enable the reader to form some con
ception of the labour expended upon it. Thirty-six
millions of bricks were used in its construction. The

two shafts by which it is ventilated and supplied with
light are sixty feet in diameter, and the deeper of
them contains above a million of bricks. These two

enormous shafts the walls of which are perpendicular,
were built from the top downwards, small portions of the

wall (from six to twelve feet long and ten feet deep) being
excavated at a time, and then bricked up with three feet

depth of bricks, laid with Roman cement. At one time

1,250 labourers were employed in building the tunnel.
To lodge and cater for this army of navvies, a town
of petty dealers soon sprung up; sheds of rude and
imstable construction rose on the hill above the turmel,

and in them a navvy could obtain at a high rent
the sixteenth part of a bed-room. Frequently one room
containing four beds was occupied by eight day and eight
night workmen, who slept two in a bed, and shifted
their tenancies like the heroes of a well-known farce.

    The disasters of the Kilsby excavation were dimly

202  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.     [GIL X.

foreseen and predicted by Dr. Arnold. On his first visit

to Rugby after the Bill for the London and Birmingham

Railway had received the Royal assent, Robert Stephenson

called on the great schoolmaster to offer him his respects.

The young man brought no letter of introduction, and

either was, or imagined himself to be, received with cold
ness and hauteur. Dr. Arnold was certainly polite, but

perhaps formal, his manners being of a school with
which, at that period of his life, Robert Stephenson was

not familiar. Anyhow the interview left on the mind

of the engineer an unpleasant impression, which was
doubtless in-some part due to Arnold's last words :- ` Well,

Isir,' he said, pointing in the direction of the Kilsby ridge,

` understand you carry your line through those hills.

I Iconfess shall be much surprised if they do not give

you some trouble.'                  Trial shafts sunk at

   In due course the trouble came.

various points ascertained that the line of the proposed

tunnel ran for the most .part through lias, shale, and beds

of rock with sand. They proved also that in places there

Jwould be a considerable quantity of water. The difficulties

apprehended were not trivial; but Messrs. . Nowell and

Sons felt that they could cope with them at an outlay

short of £99,000, and for that sum they undertook the

work. It was not long before they had reason to repent

the bargain. To afford exit for the soil removed, Robert

Stephenson ordered the sinking of eighteen working
shafts. The second of these shafts came upon a bed of

gravel and sand, containing a great deal of water,
overlaid by forty feet of clay. Repeated borings disco

vered this quicksand to be a basin, lying along one side
of the hill, and extending 400 yards over the line of

     _ -=~

1835.]     CAPTAIN MOORSOM'S VISIT TO KILSBY.                            203

the tunnel. As the evil fortune of Messrs. Nowell and

Sons and their employers would have this treacherous
                                      it,
                                                                      a
basin had been missed by the trial shafts only by

few feet. Ruin stared the contractors in the face, and
Mr. Nowell, whose health had for some time been declin

ing, died shortly after the discovery of the quicksand, his

death being doubtless accelerated by the fulfillment of Dr.

Arnold's prediction.

The calamity which had prostrated, not killed, their
                                      if

                                                       it

                                                                      '
principal contractor was not without its influence on the

directors. Amongst them were those who seized as an

occasion for insinuating that their `young engineer was

at fault, and that, had he had more experience, -the trial

shafts wo11ld have discovered the dangerous spot. The

consternation of both committees (the London committee
and that which sate at Birmingham) was at its height when

Captain Moorsom, in his official capacity of secretary and

business adviser, was deputed to visit Kilsby, hold an in

terview with Robert Stephenson, and urge upon him the

propriety of calling in further engineering advice. Without

delay Captain Moorsom acted upon his instructions, and

arriving at Kilsby, hastened to the ofiice, where he found

Robert Stephenson holding consultation with his as
           I
                                        `
                                             a

                                     I
sistant and sub-assistant engineers.

VVhen Captain Moorsom made his presence known, and

stated with delicacy the anxiety of the directors, and

the satisfaction they would feel in calling in other

engineering advice, Robert Stephenson answered cordially

and without irritation, No; the time has not come for

that yet.  have decided what to do.             mean to pump

the water all out, and then drive the tunnel under the

dry sand. Tell the directors not to be frightened, and

204  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                  [CIL X.

I IIfsay that all ask is time and fair play.  can't get
Irid of the water, 'll then think about going to other

engineers for help.'

Captain Moorsom then knew but little of Robert Ste

phenson. He had seen him occasionally in parliamentary

committee-rooms, and had heard him spoken of by friends

as a young man fortunate in the possession of extraordi

nary intellects- spoken of by enemies as a young man

fortunate in the possession of an extraordinary father.

From that time, however, Captain Moorsom became

Robert Stephenson's enthusiastic supporter ; and, returning

to the directors, he told them to rest assured that their
                                              '
engineer deserved their entire confidence.

   With the aid of 13 steam-engines, 200 horses, and

1,250 `navvies,' the engineer again set to work. A short

distance from the line of the tunnel, shafts, cased with

wooden tubbing, were forced through the sand, and
from them headings were driven into the sand, through
which the water flowed freely to the pumps. For nine
months was the pumping continued, and for the principal
part of that time each minute saw 1,800 gallons of water

sucked from the basin. At length the difficulty was

overcome. The tunnel was then shot under the sand,

and the gentlemen who had anticipated the failure of
their `young engineer,' and who during the protracted
trial had never ceased to worry him with impertinent

criticisms, received a welcome and salutary lesson.

   In November 1836, another trouble occurred in the
irruption of an enormous body of water into a part of

the tunnel where there were no pumps. The water rose
rapidly, and (to save a portion of the tunnel) it was
necessary forthwith to complete the lining of brickwork.

                      -

`--7\.v --- ~ --. ----.-..-.-t.. _  - _.

1836.] LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM RAILWAY ACT.  205

 To effect this workmen were floated up the tunnel on a
large raft; and, as fast as hands could move trowels

 and adjust bricks, the task was accomplished. Before
 it was completed, however, the water rose so high and
 with such increased rapidity, that the men on the raft
were in danger of being jammed up against the roof of
 the tunnel. To save the party, Mr. Charles Lean, sub
assistant engineer, jumped into the water, and, swimming
with a tow-line between his teeth, tugged his men to the
foot of the nearest working shaft, through which they were
drawn from their perilous position `to bank.'

    When the reader bears in mind that the last few pages
relate only to three or four out of thirty or forty

contracts, and also remembers that great exertions were
made to carry out all the contracts simultaneously, he

will not be surprised at learning that `the navvies'in
Robert Stephenson's army were numbered by thousands.

    The original Act for the London' and Birmingham Rail
way empowered the Company to make a line `com
mencing on the west side of the high road leading from
London to Hampstead, at or near to the first bridge
westward of the lock on the Regent's Canal at Camden
Town, in the parish of St. Pancras, in the county of
Middlesex, and terminating at or near to certain gardens,
called Nova Scotia Gardens, in the parish of Aston juxta
Birmingham and Saint Martin Birmingham, in the county
of Warwick.' At the time of the parliamentary contests
the projectors thought it would be more prudent not to
alarm the public mind with a proposal to carry their
road nearer London. As it was, the timid were predict

ing all sorts of evil consequences from an iron-way, by
which all the evil-doers of London could in a moment

206  LIFE OFROBERT STEPHENSON.  [GIL X;

fly beyond the police. A consideration, however, that

had yet more weight with the Company was Lord South
ampt0n's opposition to their undertaking.

   When their petition was rejected by the peers, Lord
Southampton had been a principal cause of their defeat.
His lordship owned much of the land between Camden
Town and the streets of the capital, and it was under a
strong conviction that his property would be prejudiced
by the railway that he opposed the project. To conciliate
this powerful enemy, the projectors determined to inter
fere as little as possible with his estate. Scarcely, how
ever, had the line been begun, when Lord Southampton
began to. entertain difierent views with regard to railways.
The success of George Stephenson's lines, the Stockton

and Darlington and the Liverpool and Manchester, was
admitted to be beyond a doubt. The value of land ad
jacent to them had everywhere increased, in some places
had increased enormously. London residents began to
see that it would be to their interest to get the London

and Birmingham terminus as near them as possible; and
Lord Southampton perceived that the extension of the
line through his estate would greatly increase its value.

    Robert Stephenson was the first to detect the change
in public feeling, and to suggest to the directors the
advisability of getting another Act of Parliament, em
powering them to carry their line to Lancaster Place,

Strand, abutting on the Thames. Nervous and retiring,
he could not get up courage to proffer this advice until
he had talked the matter over many times with Mr.
Charles Parker, the solicitor of the Company, and his
own intimate and valued friend. Mr. Parker rallied him

for being ` afraid of the board,' and urged that it was his

     _i.~

1836.]  ACT FOR EXTENDING THE LINE.  207

duty to tell the Company what he honestly believed

would promote their interests. In consequence of Mr.

Parker's repeated exhortations Robert Stephenson laid his
views before the directory, and for so doing was re
warded with an emphatic and almost unanimous snubbing
by the gentlemen assembled, who feared to take so bold
a step. He was told that he was an engineer; and it
would be more becoming in him, as an engineer, to
confine his attention to the matters of his profession,
and not to concern himself with the affairs of others.

Indignant, and for the moment humiliated, Robert

Stephenson hastened to Mr. Parker, and communicated
the result of his Quixotic attempt to benefit the Company.

Again his friend rallied him, and, laughing at his mor
tification, told him that before the next meeting of the
committee his suggestions would have favour with those
same directors who had displayed such want of courtesy.
The solicitor was no bad judge of the question and the
men. Before many weeks had passed Robert Stephen
son's scheme was supported both by the London and the

Birmingham committee, and more especially urged
forward by Mr. Wilson, the agent for Lord Southampton.

In due course a new Act empowered the Company to

extend their line, `commencing in a field on the west
side of the high-road leading from London to Hampstead,
being the site of the depot or station intended to be
 made for the use of the said railway, in the parish
 of St. Pancras, in the county of Middlesex, and thence

 passing across the Regent's Canal, between the first and

second bridge westward of the lock at Camden Town,
 into and through the said parish of St. Pancras, and ter
 minating in a vacant piece of ground in a place called

208  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                  [OIL X.

Euston Square, on the north side of Drummond Street,

near Euston Square, in the same parish.' Thus part of
Ifthe engineer's scheme was adopted.
                                                 the whole

design had been approved, Robert Stephenson would

have had the further credit of originating the system

which has extended the lines across and through the

metropolis.

   Euston Square lies much lower than Camden Town;
and the portion of the railway that lies between those

points was worked for some years by ropes and stationary
engines, on account of the steepness of the incline, and

for no other reason. The trains from Euston Square were
drawn up the incline at the rate of twenty miles an hour
by an apparatus consisting of 10,000 feet of rope (six
inches in circumference) and two stationary engines.
These engines and their ropes cost £25,000. The up

trains were disjoined from the locomotives at Camden

Town, and were carried down the inclination by gravity
alone into the Euston station, and were prevented from
attaining too great speed by the use of powerful brakes.

The line between Euston Square and Camden Town was

thus worked till the July of 1844, in which month loco

motives were employed to draw the laden carriages up

the incline.* It may interest some readers to know that

   " The late Admiral Moorsom,R.N.,     ` It will be necessary to notify to
amongst other papers supplied by
him for the biography of his friend,  the locomotive department at Cam
furnished the following extract from
the Minutes of the London and         den the weight of the engines, thus--
Birmingham Line : ---                    `When likely to be 16 carriages,

            `Friday: July 12, 1844.   one signal about 8 minutes before

   `On and after Monday next the      Ifthe time of departure.
use of the rope will be wholly dis
continued, and all the trains taken      ` likely to be 21, one signal 8 or
from Euston by the locomotive en      10 minutes, and a second 4 or 5

gines.                                minutes before the time.

                                      `(Signed)  H. P. Bruyeres.'

1838.]   LIE or. LECOUNT, R.N.  209

the stationary engines, discarded from Camden Town, are
at the present time doing duty in a silver mine in

Russia.
    Thus Robert Stephenson and the army under his com

mand began and completed in less than four years and
three months the first metropolitan railway that was
worked by locomotives. The first sod was cut at Chalk
Farm on June 1, 1834, and the line was opened on Sep

tember 15, 1838. On an average 12,000 men were
throughout that space of time employed upon the works,

i.e. rather more than 107 men to each mile. Estimating

the labour expended upon the vast operations of these
12,000 men, Lieut. Lecount, R.N., one of the assistant

engineers of the line, says --

The great Pyramid of Egypt, that stupendous monument

which seems likely to exist to the end of all time, will afford a
comparison. After making the necessary allowances for the

foundations, galleries, &c., and reducing the whole to one

uniform denomination, it will be found that the labour ex

pended on the great pyramid was equivalent to lifting fifteen
thousand seven hundred and sixty-three million cubic feet of

stone one foot high. This labour was performed, according to

Diodorus Siculus, by three hundred thousand, and according to

Herodotus, by one hundred thousand, men, and it required for its
Ifexecution twenty years.
                           we reduce in the same manner the

labour expended in constructing the London and Birmingham

Railway to one common denomination, the result is twenty-five

thousand million cubic feet of material (reduced to the same
weight as that used in constructing the pyramid) lifted one foot

high, or nine `thousand two hundred and sixty-seven million

cubic feet more than were lifted one foot high in the construction
of the pyramid. Yet this immense undertaking has been per
formed by about twenty thousand men in less than five years.

The reader will observe that Lieut. Lecount in making

his calculation takes, not the average number of workmen

VOL. I.                    P

210      LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.     [OIL X.

employed on the line, but the highest number acting

together at a timeof special exertion.

   It should be borne in mind that throughout this

period, although the majority of the Directors did him
full justice for integrity and talent, yet Robert Stephenson

was harassed with the vexatious opposition of a section

of those directors whom he was so zealously serving. It

would do no good at this date to rake up the animosities

of a generation fast disappearing from the world; but it

is right, for the consolation and encouragement of honest
men suffering under similar persecution, to publish the

fact that, in addition to the anxiety and toil imposed upon
him by his responsible position, he had to endure un

generous treatment from his employers.  -

     At length, after innumerable delays and an enormous

excess of expenditure beyond the estimates, the line was

opened with suitable, but modest, ceremony. The Com
mittee of London Directors, accompanied by the principal

officers of the line and a few friends, made a trip in one

train to Birmingham and dined with the Birmingham

committee at Dee's Royal Hotel, Robert Stephenson

taking charge of the engine during the excursion.
   To him the day was far from being a day of pleasure.

In bidding adieu to a work magnificently completed,
which had taken up several of the best years of his life,

he felt that sadness which Gibbon experienced whilst

penning the last lines of his history. To this depression
was added the irritation of an insult offered to his father

by one of his own principal enemies. That very morn

ing, before mounting the engine to drive to Birmingham,
Robert Stephenson had read in a newspaper an article
full of base insinuations against, and reflections upon, his

father.

a1837 THE DUNCHURCH DINNER. 211
                       a it,
   In the evening a party of about one hundred people
                              a
assembled at Dee's Royal Hotel. The banquet passed ofi"
heavily, and on the following morning Robert Stephenson
met, after breakfast, the person who was supposed to be
the author of the article which had caused him so much

pain, and immediately asked him whether he had written
it. The charge was admitted; and Robert Stephenson,
having expressed in the strongest terms his opinion on the
subject, left the room. The writer of the article, who was
also a director of the Company, appealed for protection to
Mr. Glynn, the chairman, who was not present at the scene.

The latter replied briefly that if directors chose to attack

the engineer of the Company or his father in the public
journals, they must do so in their private capacity and at
their own risk. Some years afterwards the director met
Robert Stephenson on the station platform at Rugby, and,
expressing his regret for the old quarrel, extended his
hand to the engineer, who instantly accepted and the

feud was forgotten.

   A more agreeable celebration of the successful conclu

sion of the London and Birmingham line was dinner
given to Robert Stephenson towards the close of the pre
vious year (December 23, 1837), at Dunchurch in War
wickshire, when the acting and assistant engineers pre
sented the engineer-in-chief with silver soup-tureen and
stand, worth 130 guineas, as an expression of their affec
tionate admiration. Mr. Frank Forster was in the chair,
 and Lieut. Lecount, R.N., the historian of `the works,' in

the vice-chair. George Stephenson was present as
guest. The host of the Dun Cow,' Dunchurch, had

 never before entertained so distinguished party.

    An anecdote connected with the Dun Cow' dinner
                                           r
`
     2

                         `

                           a

212  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.      [OIL X.

must not be omitted. The subscription for the soup
tureen and stand was confined to the engineering officers
of the Company-- a restriction which excluded several
persons who were anxious to subscribe. Mr. Charles

Capper, who, having merely supplied a quantity of ma

chinery to the line, could only be regarded as a sub
contractor, in vain endeavoured to force his contribution

on the committee, who declined to accept it because, if

they set aside `the line' agreed upon, they should not

know where to draw another. At the dinner, however,

the enthusiastic sub-contractor was present in all his glory
and admiration for Robert Stephenson. `Anyhow,' he
exclaimed to some of the committee, as he entered the
room, ` you will allow me to dine with Mr. Stephenson.'
As the dinner was public, there was of course no oppo

sition. In the dining-room the testimonial was placed on

a buffet for inspection; and as the guests assembled, they

surrounded the soup-tureen and criticised it. At length

the sub-contractor, with a glow of triumph in his face,

exclaimed, `It is a handsome tureen, but it wants a

ladle.' And as the critic spoke, he supplied the deficiency

by taking from his pocket a large and very handsome
ladle, and putting it into the silver vessel.* The ladle
formed part of the testimonial, and Robert Stephenson in
after life was very proud to tell his friends how he became
possessed of his large soup-ladle.

   Thus was completed the construction of the London

    * The following inscription was  of the Engineering Department who
put on the tureen : --               were employed rmder him in the
                                     execution of that great work. Pre
   `To Robert Stephenson, Esquire,   sented on the eve of their gradual

Engineer-in-Chief of the London and  separation.'
Birmingham Railway, a tribute of

respect and esteem from the members

1838.] BRUNEL ADOPTS STEPHENSON'S PLANS.  213

 and Birmingham Railway, with which line Robert
Stephenson maintained his connection up to the time of
his death, acting as its consulting engineer with a salary
of £100 per annum, and his expenses when called to

attend on the line. It was the first of our great metro

politan railroads, and its works are memorable examples
of engineering capacity. They became a guide to suc
ceeding engineers; as also did the plans and drawings
with which the details of the undertaking were ` plotted '
in the Eyre Arms Hotel. When Brunel entered upon
the construction of the Great Western line he borrowed

Robert Stephenson's plans, and used them as the best
possible system of draughting. From that time they

became recognised models for railway practice. To have

originated such plans and forms, thereby settling an

important division of engineering literature, would have
made a position for an ordinary man. In the list of

Robert Stephenson's achievements such a service appears
so insignificant as scarcely to be worthy of note.

214  LEE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XI.

                           CHAPTER XI.

AFFAIRS, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE, DURING THE CONSTRUCTION

             OF THE LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM RAILWAY.

                                                         (zarsr. 29-35.)

     Stanhope and Tyne Railway Company --- Robert Stephenson ap
     pointed their Engineer--- Opening of the Line and its rapidly in
     creasing Embarrassments--R0bert Stephenson visits Belgium with
      his Father --Offices in Duke Street, and George Street, Westminster
     --The Session of 1836---Various proposed Lines between London
     and Brighton: Sir John Reunie's, Robert Stephenson's, Gibbs's,
      Cundy's--London and Blackwall Railway, and the Commercial Road
     Railway--Robert Stephenson strongly opposes the Use of Locomo
     tives in Towns---Life at Haverstock Hill--Readi-ng, Friends, Horses,
     Sunday Dinners -- Newcastle Correspondence -- Mrs. Stephenson's
      Accident to Knee-Cap--Professor Wheatstone's and Robert Stephen
     son's Adoption of the Electric Telegraph--Robert Stephenson as
     sumes Arms -- That ` Silly Picture.'

                        the terms of Robert Stephenson's agree

ALTHmOenUt GwHith the directors of the London and Bir

 mingham Railway Company precluded him from
 undertaking the personal superintendence of any other
 engineering work during the construction of that line, he
 was at liberty to act as a consulting engineer in the civil
 department of his profession, to advise on questions of
 parliamentary tactics, to appear as a professional witness
 before committees, and to visit any part of the kingdom
 or continent, for brief periods--either to superintend
 the interests of his private undertakings, or inspect the

1833.]  STANHOPE AND MEDOMSLE Y.  215

 scene of new public works. Haverstock Hill was his

 home; and the course of the London and Birmingham
 line was the route on some part of which he might, on
 five days out of six, have been seen getting over rough
 ground on horseback--or walking from point to point, at

 such a pace that his companions, puffing at his heels, were
 frequently compelled to cry out for breathing time. But
 by careful distribution of his time he made leisure for

 many matters distinct from the first Metropolitan Railway.
    His connection with the Stanhope and Tyne Railway

 had already become to him a source of serious uneasiness.
As it for years caused him grave anxiety, and at one time
threatened to plunge him in pecuniary embarrassment, it
is fit here to speak at some length of that signal instance
of rash speculation and grave mismanagement of amateur

 directors.

    As early as 1831, a scheme was concocted by certain
speculators to work some lime-quarries near the town of
Stanhope, in the county of Durham, and certain portions
of the extensive coal field at Medomsley, in the same
county, and to connect the two works by a railway. The
chance that such a line would answer was very slight; for
the fifteen miles of rugged country through which it ran
by a succession of unusually steep inclines was sparsely

populated, and (for Durham) poor in minerals. A

company was nevertheless formed, and the iron road was

laid down. A few months' trial was sufficient to prove

what ought to have been foreseen, that such a line could
never pay. Two of the original projectors slipped out of
the affair on profitable terms, leaving their companions to

adopt a bold, and by no means unwise, suggestion, for
making good their loss. The line from Stanhope to

216  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XI.

Medomsley was a failure for obvious reasons; but it was

argued that if the way were carried on twenty-four miles

further, to South Shields at the mouth of the Tyne, it
would pass through the heart of an extensive and
productive coal field, and find abundance of business.
This second scheme was just as sound as the original
undertaking was bad; and had it only been carried out
with prudence, it would have been eminently successful.

    The new scheme immediately took, and the shares
were subscribed for by people of credit, and in some
cases of wealth, for the most part residing in London.
The capital of the new Company was stated to be
£150,000, consisting of 1,500 shares of £100 each. Of

these shares, however, only 1,000 were ever paid upon,
the remaining 500 being gratuitously allotted to the two
projectors of the undertaking, who, in addition to this
remuneration for their services, secured for themselves

one half the profits of the line, after the proprietors
had received 5 per cent. on their shares. Power was
given to the directors to raise £50,000 more capital by
the creation of new shares, and £150,000 on loan.

   In the North of England it has been an ancient custom

for speculators to lay down colliery tramways, without
going through the tedious and costly process of parliamen
tary incorporation. Running from coal fields to neigh
bouring ports, these lines are never very long. As a ge
neral rule they run through the lands of but few owners,

the value of whose property they enhance. It is therefore

usual for projectors of such tramways to make their
own agreements with landowners, paying a certain
annual rent for right of way, or way-leave as it is called,
and taking such way-leave for ninety-nine years, with

1834.]  STANHOPE AND TYNE LINE.  217

a reserved power to abandon on giving twelve months'
notice. The Stanhope and Tyne line was made on this
plan; but so badly were the negotiations with land
owners managed, that when the line (in all thirty-five miles
long) was completed it was burdened with a way-leave
rental of more than £300 per mile. This was bad. But
a far worse consequence of the arrangement was one

inseparable from the system above described. Having no

act of incorporation, an ordinary way-leave railway is a
simple partnership affair, in which every shareholder is a
partner. And that meant, in times prior to the Limited
Liability Act, that every shareholder in an ordinary way
leave tram company was personally responsible for all the
liabilities of the company.

    From first to last, method and business exactness were

neglected in the affairs of the Stanhope and Tyne line.
The new Company's deed of settlement was not executed
till February 1834, but the first way-leave agreements
were entered into with landowners in April 1832 ; and as
far as confused accounts can be trusted, it would appear
that nearly the whole of the capital was paid up and
expended, and heavy debts were incurred before the
execution of the deed. One of the first acts of the Com
pany was to draw a bill of exchange ; and when the pro

prietors at length decided to dissolve the association, the
bills in circulation for which the Company were respon
sible amounted to £176,000.

   In an evil hour for Robert Stephenson the directors of

the Stanhope and Tyne line agreed to consult him as an
engineer. At first he was well pleased with the summons.
The remuneration for the services required of him was to

be £1,000 ; but he was persuaded to accept in payment

218  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.               [CIL XI.

of that sum ten shares in the Company's stock. At first,

Robert Stephenson liked his £1,000 all the better for being

in that form, since his own judgement, as well as the obser

vations of bystanders, assured him that the new railway

must eventually answer. He did not calculate with a fore

knowledge that the undertaking would be mismanaged.
And he was at the time ignorant of the difference be

tween the legal positions of a shareholder in an incorpo
rated railway, and of a shareholder in a line without an

act of incorporation.

     The ultimate fate of this ill-starred Company will not

at present be set forth. It
     ;                                        however, best to notice, at

                                         is,
this point, the course of its affairs during the construction.

of the London and Birmingham Railway. At great outlay

the directors built staiths, and purchased freehold and

leasehold houses, buildings, wharves, and quays at South

Shields and in the March of 1835, on the projection of

the Durham Junction Railway, in which the proprietors

of the Stanhope and Tyne deemed themselves deeply

interested, the directors of the latter Company subscribed

£40,000 out of £80,000 to be raised for the new line.

For the most part these purchases and new engagements

were based on good considerations, and were such, that  if

the pecuniary obligations consequent upon them had been

originally made on proper scale, and had then been met
     a
                                   a
in proper way, no objection could have been preferred

against them. But not content with buying at exorbitant
prices, the new Company started with the ruinous system of

borrowing on bills, instead of raising from amongst them
selves, or by the creation of new shares, the sums necessary

for liquidating debts. The fact was, the directory lay in the

hands of persons whose circumstances precluded any other

     --§.~

1834.]  PECUNIARY EMIBARRASSMENT.  219

system of raising money. From first to last an important
department of the business of the directors was to raise
money on accommodation bills on terms averaging 11 per
cent. per annum. In June 1834, following the February
in which their deed of settlement was executed, the

directors obtained on mortgage £60,000 from the Al

liance Assurance Company. The railway and collieries
commenced working in September 1834, and by the end
of the year the entire expenditure of the Company
amounted to £226,485 17s. 0d.; of which amount

£100,000 had been received from payments on the 1,000
paid-up shares, £60,000 had come from the Alliance

Assurance mortgage, and the remaining £66,485 17s. 0d.

had been raised on bills. Twenty-four thousand

pounds were soon afterwards raised by debentures.
Thus affairs began, and thus they went on. Loan was
raised on loan, bill accepted after bill. Every month
affairs looked worse ; so that in 1838, when the London

and Birmingham line was opened, instead of finding
himself the owner of £1,000 in a railway the shares
of which were at a premium, Robert Stephenson
found himself with ten shares in an affair that was

throughout the money-market a byword for failure
shares which he would gladly have been able to throw
into the sea, since they rendered him personally liable for
an enormous sum of money. Thus was Robert Stephen
son paid for engineering services. He had done good
work, and as a reward for the service he found insolvency

staring him in the face. It was a salutary lesson to him.

Ever afterwards he resolutely refused to take the shares
of any company in payment for work done. He took,

indeed, thirty shares in the London and Birmingham

220  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XI.

 previous to the Act being obtained; when the directors,
 finding great difiiculty in getting the proportion of sub
scriptions required by standing orders, called on all their
principal officers to put down their names for shares.
But that was a different affair ; and moreover, he had not

then the experience of the four succeeding years to guide
him. To speculation of all sorts he had a dislike amount
ing to repugnance. His investments gave modest divi
dends, but they were safe. He believed in the maxim
that a high rate of interest is only another name for bad
security. This distaste for pecuniary risk was seen in
little things as well as great--in his amusements as well
as his commercial arrangements. He liked horse-races,
and during the last years of his life always endeavoured
to be at Epsom and at Ascot, but his most intimate
friends never knew him to bet a shilling on any horse.

In the same way, he enjoyed a rubber, but he never

played for high stakes.

   In the May of 1835, Robert Stephenson accompanied

his father to Brussels; the elder and the younger

engineer having been summoned by King Leopold to
advise as to the construction of a complete system of
railways for his kingdom. On that occasion, when the
father obtained the decoration of the Order of Leopold,
theson was also admitted to familiar intercourse with
the King. Two years afterwards, on the public opening
of the railway between Brussels and Ghent, when George
Stephenson was received by the Belgians with an
enthusiasm of admiration, Robert Stephenson renewed
his acquaintance with a country which enjoys distinction
amongst continental nations for an early and cordial
adoption of railroad locomotion, and was again hospit

1836.]  GREAT GEORGE .STREET, WESTMINSTER.  221

ably entertained by the sovereign, who in 1841 conferred
on him, as he had six years before conferred on George
Stephenson, the decoration of the Order of Leopold.

    On his return from Belgium, Robert Stephenson found
himself overwhelmed with work. The scant leisure left

him by the London and Birmingham line was more than
fully occupied with examining projects for new lines
which sprung up in every direction, and concerning

which his advice was sought alike by engineers and by
the public. For two years he managed to attend to this

extra-official business at his office at Camden Town, on

the London and Birmingham works. In 1836, however,

finding he could no longer, either with comfort to himself
or with the approval of the Company, receive his daily
levy of projectors and engineers at Camden Town, he

took an office in Duke Street, Westminster. In the fol

lowing year this office was relinquished for one in Great
George Street, Westminster, with which street the Ste
phensons and their profession are intimately associated in

the public mind. In that street Robert Stephenson, with

the principal members of his staff, had offices up to the
time of his death. On the doors of 24 Great George Street
country sight-seers still read the name of the great construc
tor of railways and builder of bridges ; and in the adjoining
mansion is established the Institution of Civil Engineers.

    The years 1836 and 1837 were remarkable for railway

enterprise. In the thick of the parliamentary fight

Robert Stephenson appeared as professional witness, and
more especially as the projector and engineer of a line
between London and Brighton, which unfortunately
miscarried, but was not shelved until it had engrossed

a large amount of attention and discussion. As early as

222  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XI.

 1833, and indeed before that year, his attention was

called to the subject of railway communication between
the metropolis and the most fashionable watering-place of
the country. In 1834 and in 1835, he was again con

sulted as to the lines projected between those points, and

finding none of the proposed routes such as he could in
all respects recommend he sketched out a line of his
own. The consequence was that the session of 1836 saw

four distinct applications to Parliament for different lines

between London and the Sussex cliffs. The rival pro
jects were Sir John Rennie's, or the direct line; Mr.
Robert Stephenson's line; Mr. Joseph Gibbs's line; and
Mr. Cundy's line. Here was a noble fight for Westminster,
spoil for lawyers, agents, surveyors, and witnesses. Each
of these proposed lines availed itself of a terminus already
constructed, Stephenson's line taking the terminus of the
London and Southampton Railway at Nine Elms, a little
above Vauxhall, with a depot on the banks of the Thames,
and branching from the line at Wimbledon Common, five
miles and a half fi"om the terminus; and the direct line

and Gibbs's both adopting the Greenwich Railway Ter
minus at London Bridge, and availing themselves of the
railway, already sanctioned and under course of construc
tion, as far as Croydon.

   Mr. Cundy's projected line was a freak of daring such
as can only be found in times of unusual excitement. In
these comparatively sober days it can scarcely be be

lieved that just five and twenty years ago a company
should have contemplated the construction of an impor
tant line of railway, and, with full attention to all the
costly forms of law, have applied to parliament for leave
to construct their line, without having made any survey

1836.]                           CUNDY'S LINE.                         223

(in the engineering sense of the word) of the country
through which the line was to pass, --having in fact

trusted to the Ordnance map for knowledge of the

natural features and levels of the ground. Mr. Walker,

in his report on the project, drily remarked, `The line

of country, with the levels, Mr. Cundy shows would be
Ivery desirable and easy,
                                            they could be found; but

have not succeeded in doing so, my levels being consider

ably different from Mr. Cundy's.' To well-informed en
gineers the bare mention of ` Cundy's line ' was a signal

for hearty laughter. As soon as Robert Stephenson put

forth his plan, Crmdy fired up with virtuous indignation,
and was shocked at the immorality of the engineer of the

London and Birmingham Railway, who had pirated" his

plans. No better illustration of the comic side of railway

gambling a quarter of a century since could be made

than a drama reproducing all the circumstances connected

with ` C1mdy's line.'

  `If* the Committee will permit            of mile distant from that on which
Ime, will just say one word with            a
                                            he himself relies. Mr. Cundy has
                                                   of
respect to Mr. Cundy's line, which          also made some very extravagantof
had escaped me. Now Mr. O1mdy's
                                            use of his engineering powers, for he
Ifaccusation against Mr. Stephenson
                                            has made the River Mole ten feet
     that he has pirated his line.          higher than the stream which runs
is,
                                            into it; and he has told you 74
    I
he has, do not know that matters
                           I it                                     of J.
Ifmuch, except with regard to Mr.           gun ship may float upon the flood of
                                                                               of a
Stephenson's character.          he had     that river, that you may go down
                                                                                         vi
been Red Rover amongst engineers,           there some Saturday night, that you
        a

and had taken from another the fruit        may sleep there on Sunday night,

of his skill and labour, do not             and on the Monday morning you
                                            may see Mr. Stephenson, and his
think the Committee would attach
                                            railroad, and his embankment gone,
much importance to         it,  as against
                                            washed away by the fiood.'--»Ste
the promoters of this Bill. But    it       phen.son's London and Brighton Rail

is  impossible that can have beenit
so; for when Mr. Cundy comes to
put in the Ordnance map, with his           Eway. Qreech the Hon. C'. Talbot,
section of Mr. Stephenson's line
                                            on smnming up the Eng1-neerz-n_q

                                            dence given in support  Stephenson's

marked upon  it,  it       found that he    line before the Committee  the
                                            House Commons.
                       is

actually lays down this line quarter
                                a

224  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.        , [OIL XI.

     The contest, however, between Stephenson's line and

Rennie's and Gibbs's lines was honest, and involved many

delicate points of consideration.   It was, however,

proved by the personal examination of the Committee,

that the alleged survey for the latter of these lines was

not much less incorrect than that of Cundy's line. Unable

to superintend the details of the survey himself, Robert

Stephenson committed them to the care of Mr. Bidder,

who, not without an appearance of justice, was regarded

Jby the public as being really and truly the engineer of

the line. As its name implies, the chief object of Sir oh11

Rennie's direct line was the shortest possible passage be

tween the two termini, the natural obstacles of the coun

try being boldly met, instead of being adroitly avoided.

Robert Stephenson and Mr. Bidder, on the contrary, aimed

at a line which, without being widely circuitous, should

at the expense of a few miles' extra distance save the ne

cessity of the cuttings and tunnels which a route through

the chalk ridges, known as the North and South Downs,

would involve. The most prominent point of distinction
between Sir John Rennie's and Robert Stephenson's plans

may be seen in the one fact; that while the earthwork of

the latter, estimated on slopes averaging at one and a
half to one, was 6,000,000 cubic yards, the earthwork of

the former, estimated on slopes of less than one to one,
was 8,000,000 cubic yards. Thus, calculated with

Robert Stephenson's slopes, of one and a half to one, Sir
John Rennie's earthwork would at the least have amounted

to ten million cubic yards, or four millions of cubic yards

more than Robert Stephenson's.*     4

  ' `Now the most important part    earthwork in these two several lines.
                                    Now the amount of the earthwork
of the comparison is the amount of

1837.]   CAPTAIN ALDERSON'S REPORT.                                 225

   In the following session of 1837, in accordance with a
resolution of the House of Commons requesting the Crown
` to refer- to some military engineer the .statements of

engineering particulars furnished by several engineers in
support of the several lines of Brighton Railway now

under the consideration of the House,' Captain Alderson,

R.E., reported on the merits of the various proposed routes.

In his report, dated June 27, 1837, the referee said--

  I Ihave the honour to state, that have carefully read the

evidence given before the committee, as well as their report,

Iand attentively compared the several plans and sections com

mitted to me; that have also taken a general survey of the
sites of the different lines, examining more attentively those
portions where important works are proposed, and have no
hesitation in stating that the line proposed by Mr. Stephenson,

considered in an engineering point of view, is preferable to
either of the others. Availing himself of the valleys of the

Rivers Mole and Adur, he avoids the heavy cuttings necessarily
consequent on forcing a passage through the chalk ridges known

upon Mr. Stephenson's line is           Iknow that need repeat it by-and

6,000,000; his slopes averaging at      bye. Even supposing Sir John
one and a half to one. Sir John
                                        Rennie could do what he proposes
Rennie's, with slopes averaging at
                                        to do, in the time and at the expense
less than one to one, are 8,000,000
of cubic yards. Now Mr. Stephenson      Ihe proposes, may admitmy friend's
                                        I Icase, and say can do the same.
has formed an erroneous estimate of
                                        Instead of its costing me a million
Sir John Rennie's earthwork, it ap
                                        of money, it will cost me £700,000 :
pears, because he assumed the same
                                        instead of taking me two-and-a
slopes as he himself took; and          half to three years, it will be done
taking those of Sir John Rennie's
                                        Iin eighteen months. VVhat you can
at 8,000,000 cubic yards, to 6,000,000
on Mr. Stephenson's line, would, if     do, can do; and you derive no

Mr. Stephenson's slopes are adopted,    benefit from taking fallacious ac

Ifbecome 10,000,000.  Mr. Stephen       counts of earthwork and slopes that

son adopted Sir John Rennie's slopes    Icannot stand; because you must

                                        admit, that what you can do can
of course his earthwork would be        do nlso.'--Hon. J.
                                                            of 6'.  Talbot's A%ee(!h
very much diminished. And here
                                        before Committee          House of Com
Iarises a remark which applies to the
                                        mons, May 17, 1836.
whole of this case, and do not

VOL. I.

226       LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                    [CIL XI.

as the North and South Downs; and, with the exception of two

short tunnels, one at Epsom and the other at Dorking, arrives
at Brighton, via Shoreham, having only such ordinary difliculties
to contend against as are necessarily consequent on under
takings of a similar nature and extent.

   Having borne this emphatic testimony to the engineering
excellences of Robert Stephenson's line, Captain Alderson
entered on the examination of Gibbs's and Sir John

Rennie's proposals, giving the latter the palm over both

its rivals; its superiority to Robert Stephenson's line

being discerned in the greater advantages which, the

Captain judged, it offered to the sea-ports on the South
`ICoast.
          therefore,' concludes Captain Alderson's report,

`adhere to the opinion already given in favour of the

Direct Line.' Robert Stephenson was greatly chagrined

at this decision. As the line between Brighton and

London was one to which the attention of London

residents was especially directed, his defeat had all the
additional mortification which a crowd of spectators
imparts to the overthrow of a combatant. Moreover, he

sincerely felt that the conclusion was not only erroneous,
but that it was arrived at by a one-sided consideration of

the very points which ought to have led to a judgement
in his favour. As he had done years before in the case

of Messrs. Walker's and Rastrick's reports against the
locomotive, Robert Stephenson again defended himself
with his pen, and in a short pamphlet*--which is a
model of criticism, in temper, conciseness, completeness

and perspicuity--gave a clinching response to the fallacies
of Captain Alderson's report.

  ' London and Brighton Railway.  Weale, Architectural  Library, 5
                                  High Holborn: 1837.
Mr. Robert Stephenson's Reply to

Captain Alderson. London: John

1836.]  LONDON AND BLACKWALL.               227

   Amongst the parliamentary contests of this period,
in which a conspicuous part was assigned to Robert
Stephenson, that of the London and Blackwall line, in

1836, deserves notice, as the proceedings before commit
tees sitting upon that line exhibit both the elder and

younger Stephenson as opponents of the locomotive system.
Amongst the many railway projects of 1825, one much
favoured by Sir Edward Banks and other capitalists was
a proposal for an iron flange railway (similar to those
tramways which a citizen of the United States recently
placed in some of our wider thoroughfares) which should
be laid down upon the Commercial Road for the accele
ration of traffic to the West India Docks. As the rails

were to be laid upon the public road, the employment
of locomotives was of course no part of the project. The
trustees of the Commercial Road liked the scheme, and
with their approval a Bill for the construction of the tram
was brought into Parliament in the session of 1827-28,
but after two readings it miscarried through want of
support. The defeat, however, did not deter the trustees
of the road from doing something for public conve

nience. At their command Mr. James Walker in 1828

began to lay down the stone tramway from Severn's sugar
warehouse, 200 or 300 yards below Whitechapel Church,
to the gate of the West India Docks, the granite blocks
of which tram remain to this day?` The road was

   " Mr. James Walker, examined      much work in drawing that ten tons,

before the Committee of the House    as if he had been drawing thirty

of Commons, on the London and        tons on a level.
Blackwell Railways, April 14, 1836.     `Do you conceive that a horse's

  ` Committea] All the way ?--Yes,   draught is equal to three hundred

the Commercial Road rises towards    Iand sixty pounds on a level tram
London: the horse was doing as
                                     road.E'--The horse did the work

                                     Q2

                                         -

228            LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                                                     [CIL XI.  l

completed in 1829, and was in its day deemed a great                                                                    1|
success, although the rapid improvements made in the
next few years in the construction of iron roads and steam
carriages soon rendered it of comparatively small impor

tance.

   In 1835, the Company whose Bill had been thrown out

in 1827-28 renewed their exertions, and, having grown
bolder by experience, resolved on applying to Parliament
for leave to make a new road, to be worked by steam
power. The proposal was no longer for an iron-tramway

on the Commercial Road. George Stephenson was the

engineer of this Company (the London and Blackwall),
and at the outset advised a route along the south of the

Commercial Road. -Subsequently taking a different view,
he induced the Company to adopt a line on the north of
that thoroughfare; upon which a new Company, styling

Ihave stated.  was just going to                            tramway would be ten tons gross;

add, he was a very powerful horse,                          but as the Commercial Road rises

and it was too much for him: it                             towards London, deduction must
                                                          a is,
was a kind of trial of strength, and                                 `be made from this for its gravity,

the horse did it. That is quite as                                IIthe amount of which depends on
                                                                                  a
Imuch as two horses could have done.                                                                       athe inclination of the road, andI is

   will read the paragraph if you                           common to all kinds of roads, of
please. The full average work of a
horse per day is one hundred and                            tramways, and railways; and, there

                                                            fore, take all things into considera

fifty pounds moved twenty miles                             tion, am of opinion that six tons

over a pulley; that                        a is,raised one  gross from the Docks to Whitechapel,

hundred and fifty perpendicularly:                          and a greater weight from White

the horse, therefore, was doing the                         chapel to the Docks, may be con
work of two horses and half. He
                                                            sidered as the proper weight for one

appeared to go easily, but the exer                         horse on tramway--six tons up,
tion was too great to be continued
                                                            think  may also say twelve tons

for any considerable time, so as to                         down, on the tramway.

form the basis of calculation, but                             `On what supposition? with its
it                                                          present inclination? -- Yes.
   a if a

         I
                                        a
was extraordinary work to draw

on turnpike road thirty tons. Upon                          You stated that this horse drew

the whole, think the conclusion                             ten tons from the Docks to the end

that the roads were level the work                          of the road? --- Yes.'

of London draught horse on

                                                                                                                        I

1836. `COMMERCIAL ROAD RAILWAY COMPANY.'                                       229

itself the "Commercial Road Railway Company,' with Sir
John Rennie for engineer, started up, and, adopting the
relinquished southern route, entered into competition
with the original projectors. The Commercial Road
Railway would have started from Glass-House Yard,
on the east of the Minories, and have passed on aviaduct
supported by arches to its terminus near the Brunswick
Wharf at Blackwall. This line Sir John Rennie proposed

to work with locomotives. On the other hand, George

Stephenson maintained that no line passing through such
dense and valuable property as that which lay on the
banks of the river between London and Blackwall ought
to use steam carriages, on account of the danger from
sparks, which he apprehended might cause serious losses
by fire. Robert Stephenson* fully concurred with his

    * House of Commons' Committee       cidedly ; and that decision was not
on the London and Blackwell Rail        rashly come to.'
ways, May 17, 1836. Mr. Robert
Stephenson examined by Mr. Alex            `Mr. AIe.rander.] Do you know
                                        of danger having arisen from loco
Iander.
    ` want to know whether you          motive engines having set fire to
have directed your attention to their
                                        Iproperty of any kind F -- Yes.
extension in towns?--Yes; the              `On what line ?--VVhy have

mode of having tunnels under            seen them set fire to the gorse on
towns.                                  the Liverpool and Manchester line;
                                        on the Leicester and Swannington
    ` Has your attention been directed
to the best means of avoiding incon     Railway, which had a farm-house
venience to the property in the line
of railway?----Yes; and in almost       Iburned, the premises were consumed.
every case, after the best considera       must mention there that the rail
tion, we have adopted stationary
                                        way was extremely near.
engines.'
                                        cau`sCeomofmtithteea]fireWF a--s  the  engine the
   ` Committea] In acrowded metro                                         The  immediate
polis and a great town like this, you
appear to think that the stationary     cause.

Iengines are less objectionable than       `Had the Company to pay the
                                        damage ? -- Yes, they had.
the locomotives ?-- think so, de
                                           ` Do you think the proposed gauze
                                        that covered the funnel would be a
                                        remedy against all danger of this

230  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                [OIL XI.            I
                                                                                   E

                                                                                   l

                                                                                    l

father, and gave emphatic testimony as to the hazard
of setting fire to towns by driving steam carriages through

them.

    Thus far had the position of the locomotive changed
in public estimation. The Stephensons who, ten years
before, led the scanty band of its supporters, could
now venture to state boldly what they regarded as its
serious disadvantages, and could find courage to check
the anxiety of speculators to use it under all circum

~_stances. Doubtless there was real danger of fire from

passing locomotives. A recent cause, by which a railway

company was compelled to pay heavy damages for certain
agricultural property ignited by sparks thrown from a
steam-carriage, attests that the Stephensons had foundations
kind?--Not a remedy against all            `The danger arising from loco
danger, but it would materially miti    motives is one of the elements which

gate the danger.                        led you to form your opinion as to

   `You agree with Mr. Bidder in        Ithe propriety of locomotives in the

what he stated with respect to the      neighbourhood of a town ?--Yes;
gauze, the making it of a suificiently  consider it of the greatest importance
fine nature would reduce the power?
                                        to bring the Blackwall Railway as
---The reduction of the power by
the gauze has been carried to as        Inear to the city of London as pos
great an extent as is desirable, or
rather more so, because it has been     sible; and when considered the im

taken to that point that if you go      Imense `value of the property on every
beyond it the effect of the engine is   side,  came to the conclusion even

reduced.                                Itually that, rather than have locomotive

   `Now, even with the gauze in         enyines, thought the railway would

that state, have you seen sparks of     have to be abandoned.

ignited coal carried through by the        `C'ommittee.] You think locomo
force of the draught, or blast ?--Yes.  tive engines through that line of

    ` VVould that be dangerous in such  property, with such a trade as is
places as rope-walks, or timber
yards, or ship-yards, which are full    carried on, are objectionable? ---

of combustible materials P --Yes ; it   Yes.

Iis in consequence of the property         ` Because dangerous P -- Yes, that

that objected to the use of loco        Iis the sole objection--in fact, a chief

motives under these circumstances.      one; and the other referred to is

                                        the great space necessary for adepot,
                                        and the enormous expenses which

                                        are requisite for its formation.'

1836.]  PURSUITS AT HAVERSTOCK HILL.  231

for their fears. Not less certain is it that their fears were

excessive. At the present date, when the ropes and

stationary engines with which the Blackwall line was long
worked have been for years discontinued, and when
locomotives are shooting to and fro through every quarter
of London at every variety of distance above the level of
the streets, and passing through every description of
property, a person of the humblest intelligence would
smile at an assurance that London ran any risk of being
destroyed by sparks thrown out from the chimneys of
locomotives. That the Stephensons so miscalculated on
a point relating to the locomotive, is a matter worthy of
reflection; that their error was on the side of caution, is
a fact that illustrates one of their principal charac
teristics, and points to the cause of a large part of their

success.

   Notwithstanding the steady increase in the number of
subjects demanding his attention, Robert Stephenson
resolutely adhered to a rule which he had laid down on

first settling at Haverstock Hil1,--a determination to

read something every day. He was an early riser, and
always managed to get two hours of study before break
fast. The time was short, but he used it to such good
purpose that, with the aid of scientific periodicals, he was
always well up in the recent discoveries of science.

Mathematics, chemistry, geology, and physiology, were

his favourite departments of study. For light literature,
his active life left him scarcely any leisure; but few
weeks passed over in which he did not find an hour to
devote to an English poet. For the political articles of
newspapers he cared little; so that, notwithstanding his

232  LIFE OF ROBERT S'l`EPIIENSON.                                [OIL XI.

strong political convictions,* there were few men worse
informed than he usually was on the contentions and
party warfare of the Houses.

   In his domestic life Robert Stephenson was, with the
exception of one circumstance, a happy man. He had

not misjudged the character of the lady whom he mar
ried and took to his home in Newcastle, at a time when
he had no prospect. of speedy advancement to eminence
and wealth. The young wife, who ` ruled her husband
without ever seeming to rule him,' was much liked by all
Robert Stephenson's friends, and contributed in no slight

measure to secure his position amongst his professional
brethren by the amiability and tact with which she pre

   " From first to last, as boy and     both lines, you had better at once
man, Robert Stephenson was a            consider the propriety of putting in

staunch, unswerving, uncompromis        some points and crossings, so that
ing Tory--not a Conservative, but
a Tory. As occasion will be taken       011r line may be passable over that
to show in a future chapter, he never
                                        portion of the Hill Morton embank
allowed his opinions on public affairs
to interfere with his private friend.   ment (and through Kilsby) which
The conclusion of the following note    may, perhaps, not be quite closed.

to his friend Frank Forster will        The state of the permanent road is

show how generous a politician he       not of so much consequence as the
                                        existence of it throughout, so that
was:--
                                        Ithe trains may be able to pass upon
                                        it at a very slow speed.  shall be

     KEngineering Department,           coming down to Coventry on Satur
             ` Camden Town :
                    ` Aug. 29, 1838.    day night or Sunday morning. Could

                                        Iyou drop me a line by return to say

                                        where shall meet you ? Will you

     `DEAR Fo1rsrEn,--At the meeting    go to Cracow to make a line from
                                        Ithat place to Warsaw?
of our Board to-day, the importance                               have an
                                        Iapplication ; but fear your Liberal
of opening on the 17th of September

was so strongly urged on the score      principles will give rise to some ob

Iof the immense expense and incon       jection on the part of the Autocrat

venience of the coaching, that felt     of all the Russias. The line is 100

Ibound to promise them that it should   miles in length. More of this when
be practicable on that day.  must,
                                        we meet: in the meantime try if

Itherefore, lean upon you again, and    you can't convert yourself into a

  do so with confidence ; but if you    Tory.'

should find it impossible tocomplete

1836.]  AT HOME.                                233

sided over a household where men of incongruous

dispositions and rival interests frequently met. The cloud
over the domestic life of Mrs. Stephenson and her hus
band was their want of children. Robert Stephenson

greatly desired to become a father, but his wish was not

to be gratified. The part assigned to him was to con

ceal his disappointment from his wife, and to find cheer

ful companions for her in that home which was never to
be musical with the prattle of babes. To achieve this

latter purpose he encouraged her to S11I-rollI1d herself

with the members of her own family. One of her rela
tions became the commercial manager of the Newcastle

factory and Robert Stephenson's confidential agent in all

his North Country affairs. Another, a young lady, was

an almost constant visitor at Haverstock Hill.            .

A week seldom passed in which Robert Stephenson

neglected to write to Newcastle; and in his letters de

spatched to ` the works,' occasional glimpses are caught

of his private habits and amusements. Relating for the

most part to orders for new engines, the solvency of com

mercial houses, and other ordinary topics of business
interest, they occasionally contain scraps of information

relative to Mrs. Stephenson's doings and wishes, all such

passages being pervaded by a spirit of simple manly love,

and standing out all the fresher and brighter for the

prosaic communications in which they are bedded. In

one letter Robert Stephenson enquires anxiously about a
`Smuggler' to be sent him from Newcastle, the said

Smuggler being a painting which he wished to add to his
collection of art treasures, already growing numerous.

In another letter he is earnest about the qualities of a
new horse. In those days he thought £60 a rather high

234  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XI.

price for a horse. A third long letter (dated Feb. 27, 1837)

concerning boilers and prices, Robert Stephenson finished
off with an additional word about the `Smuggler,' and
one curt line on his domestic affairs : ` We are all tolerably
well at Hampstead ;' when the pen was snatched from his

hand by the young lady before mentioned, and a post

script added----

   MY DEAR UNCLE,--- Cousin Fanny would have filled up this
part, but she is in bed with a sick headache. Tell Mr. Hard
castle Mr. G. Stephenson's brother Robert is dead, the new

groom has been thrown from his horse, and both horse and man
are at present perfectly useless. This is what Mr. Stephenson
calls being tolerably well at Hampstead.

   About two months later another of those prettily or
namented business letters to `Uncle Edward ' contained

a sketch and three or four lines from Mrs. Stephenson's

pencil. A few days before, Mrs. Stephenson had met

with an unusual accident. She was driving from a friend's

door, where she had been making a call, when she stood

up in her phaeton, and, looking backwards, waved and
nodded another ` good-bye' to some acquaintances at the
drawing-room window. Scarcely had she done this when
she fell back on the seat of her carriage, frightened and
faint, and saying she had broken her knee. On examina
tion it was found that the ligament uniting her right
knee-cap to the muscles of the thigh had given way.
During her tedious cure Mrs. Stephenson had to lie night
and day on a double-incline bed, and in the rather
awkward posture which that couch compels, she drew a
humorous picture of herself.

   The men with whom Robert Stephenson was most
familiar at this period were his firm friends throughout

1837.]  ROBERT STEPHENSON'S FRIENDS.  235

life. Amongst them were Mr. Bidder, Mr. Thomas
Longridge Gooch, Mr. Budden (who acted as his secre
tary), Mr. John Joseph. Bramah, Mr. Frank Forster, Mr.
Birkinshaw, and Mr. Charles Parker. Robert Stephenson
was `a man of few pleasures. Music he cultivated to a
certain point to please his wife; but at this period he
rarely touched his flute. His profession was to him both

business and pleasure. On Sundays, however, he relaxed.

In the morning he usually went to church. In the after

noon he wrote letters and took a walk, and finished up
the day with receiving a few professional friends at din

ner, immediately after which the cigar-box made its ap

pearance.
    Amongst Robert Stephenson's more distinguished asso

ciates at this period was Professor VVheatstone, the joint
inventor with Mr. William Cooke of the electric tele

graph. Their memorable invention was patented in June
1837, and before the autumn of that year was at an end,
the correspondence necessary for business purposes be

tween the Euston Square and Camden Town stations was

carried on by electricity. `Robert Stephenson's London
and Birmingham line ' has the honour of being the scene

of the first successful working of electric telegraphy.

   In Dr. Andrew Wynter's ` Curiosities of Civilisation,'

the following interesting passage occurs in the article on

the ` Electric Telegraph ':--

    Following up his experiment, Professor Wheatstone worked
out the arrangements of his telegraph, and having associated him
self in 1837 with Mr. Cooke, who had previously devoted much
time to the same subject, a patent was taken out in the June of
that year in their joint names. Their telegraph had five wires
and five needles ; the latter being worked on the face of a lozenge
shaped dial, inscribed with the letters of the alphabet, any one

236  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.          [CIL XI.

of which could be indicated by the convergence of the needles.
This very ingenious instrument could be manipulated by any
person who knew how to read, and did not labour under the dis
advantage of working by a code which required time to be un
derstood. Immediately upon the taking out of the patent, the
directors of the North Western Railway sanctioned the laying
down of the wires between the Euston Square and Camden Town

stations, and towards the end of July the telegraph was ready

to work.
    Late in the evening of the 25th of that month, in a dingy

little room near the booking-oflice at Euston Square, by the
light of a flaring dip-candle, which only illuminated the sur
rounding darkness, sat the inventor, with a beating pulse, and a
heart full of hope. In an equally small room at the Camden
Town station, where the wires terminated, sat Mr. Cooke, his
co-patentee, and, amongst others, two witnesses well known to
fame--Mr. Charles Fox and Mr. Stephenson. . . . . Mr.
Cooke in his turn touched the keys and returned the answer.

I` Never did feel such a tumultuous sensation before,' said
Ithe Professor, ` as when all alone in the still room heard the
I Ineedles click; and as spelled the words, felt all the magni

tude of the invention, now proved to be practical beyond
cavil or dispute.' The telegraph thenceforward, as far as its

mechanism was concerned, went on without a check, and the
modifications of the instrument, which is still in use, have been

made for the purpose of rendering it more economical in its
construction and working, two wires at present being employed,
and in some cases only one.

   Professor Wheatstone, whilst making valuable com

munications for the purposes of this work, bore emphatic

testimony to the zeal displayed by Robert Stephenson

from first to last--from 1837 up to the time of his death

--to advance the science and protect the interests of

telcgraphy.*

    " Those who are curious in the his-  telegraphic inter-communication of
tory of the telegraph will find a
distinct proposition for a system of     thought in the `Scot's Magazine"
                                         (vol. xv. p. 73) of February 1753.

1838.]  `THAT SILLY PICTIIRE.'       237

   Since he fixed himself in town Robert Stephenson had

enjoyed a fine and rapidly increasing professional income
--an income to be measured by thousands. He had, there
fore, begun to live with the luxury and some of the osten

tation, usual with persons of wealth. In compliance with

Mrs. Stephenson's wishes, but not without reluctance, he
visited the Heralds' College, and informing the heralds that,

according to a family tradition, he was descended from
` the Stephensons of Mount Grenan in Scotland,' asked per

mission to use the arms of that house. In what estima
tion the officers of the college held `the tradition ' it is

needless to enquire. On the whole, they acted with
discretion. Taking a middle course between their own
interests and the rights of the Mount Grenan Stephensons,
they took some of the fleur-de-lis and -mullets from the
shield of the Mount Grenan family, and, having dished
them up with a crest and other garnishings, granted them

as an heraldic bearing to Robert Stephenson and his
father and their descendants. These arms Robert Stephen
son took (November 21, 1838), and without haggling paid
the sum at which they were priced. Honestly bought,

they were perhaps obtained not less honourably than
many ancient devices tricked in the College archives.
But Robert Stephenson, truthful, honest, and simple, with
a repugnance to flattery and a detestation of shams, never
liked them.

    Not long before his death, his eye chancing to fall on
an object ornamented with his arms, he blushed slightly,

Iand said to an old friend by his side-`Ah, I wish

had n't adopted that foolish coat of arms! Considering
what a little matter it you could scarcely believe how
often have been annoyed by "that silly picture."'
I
                                is,

238  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C1I. XII.

                        CHAPTER XII.

FROM THE COMPLETION OF THE LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM

    RAILWAY TO THE OPENING OF THE NEWCASTLE AND DAR

    LINGTON LINE.

                                           (aznr. 35-41.)

     Railways undertaken in various Directions ---Brunel, Giles, Braith
     Waite---Robert Stephenson's Trip to Italy-- On his Return again
     immersed in Projects --The Contractors' Dinner at ` The Albion '--
     Letters to Newcastle-- Cigars for the Continent-- Stanhope and
    Tyne Crisis -- Robert Stephenson threatened with Insolvency---Acts
     for the Pontop and South Shields and the Newcastle and Darlington
     Junction Railways--Robert Stephenson appointed to execute the
     Newcastle and Darlington Lines-- Robert Stephenson created a
     Knight of the Order of Leopold-- Mrs. Stephenson's Death --
    Opening of Newcastle and Darlington Line--Public Dinner and
    Speeches -- Continental Engagements--Leaves Haverstock Hill and
     moves to Cambridge Square -----Fire in Cambridge Square-- George
     Hudson and Robert Stephenson--A Contrast.

THE railway system was fixed. To disturb that system

       attempts were made by men of intellect and high
character ; but those attempts were futile. The principal
r-ules laid down by the Stephensons between 1820 and
1838 are the rules of railway engineering at the present
day. The example set by the great leaders was followed
successfully in all directions. The younger Brunel, a man
dear to all lovers of genius, was at work on the Great
Western; Mr; Francis Giles was laying down the line
between London and Southampton ; Mr. John Braithwaite
undertook the London and Colchester, bringing life and

l839.]  ROBERT STEPHENSON'S LINES.  239

increased trade to the eastern counties. In the north,
George Stephenson had under his supervision the Man

chester and Leeds, the North Midland from Derby to

Leeds, the York and North Midland from Normanton to
York; the Grand Junction Railway projected by the

father (but executed by Joseph Locke) having already
united his magnificent Liverpool and Manchester line

with his son's road terminating in Euston Square. It

would be beside the purpose of this work to enter into
the details of each of these works, and of the other lines

that followed them in quick succession--details for the

most part closely resembling each other. It will be suffi

cient to select for description those roads alone on which

Robert Stephenson's distinctive powers found most em

phatic expression.
   The engineer-in-chief's labour on the London and

Birmingham Railway was by no means at an end when
the line was opened. Works on it still remained to be

completed, and improvements had to be made at various
points before ` the chief' (as up to the day of his death
Robert Stephenson's staff were wont to call him) could dis
miss the line from his thoughts. As soon as he was able
to give his attention to the matter, the North Midland
line from Derby to Leeds was on his hands. He was
also needed on the continent. The grand cross lines from
Ostend to Liege and from Antwerp to Mons were under
construction and requiring his superintendence. Invita

tions also reached him to visit France, Switzerland, and

Italy, to advise on lines contemplated in those countries.
Entrusting the superintendence of his home-lines to his
father and the execution of them to his subordinates, and

quitting Westminster when the business of the committee

240  L]I`E OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XII.

rooms was daily becoming heavier, he left England for
three months to answer in person these calls from foreign

countries. At this period he became intimately ac

quainted with Mons. Paulin Talabot, a civil engineer who

for many years has held a leading position amongst the

civil engineers and capitalists of the continent. At a
subsequent period Robert Stephenson, Signor Negretti, and
M. Talabot surveyed the Isthmus of Suez, and ascer
tained that the levels of the Mediterranean Sea and the

Red Sea were identical.

    On his return he was soon busy again with the affairs

of English railways. On July 1 he attended the meeting

of the Council of the Railway Society. The next day saw
him giving evidence before the Select Committee of Rail
ways. On the 16th of the same month he was at Derby
about the railway station of that town ; the next day at
Clay Cross to look over his father's coal mines ; the next
day at Sheffield and over the Shqflield and Rotherham
Works; the next day at Tapton to negotiate the purchase
of land for a railway station; the next day at Birmingham
to meet the Committee of the London and Birmingham
line; the next day in town for examination before parlia

mentary committees.

   In the autumn of this year, Robert Stephenson received
an expression of the high esteem in which he was held by
an influential division of the business men engaged in the
construction of the railways of the country. As the

reader is by this time well aware, a large number of the
contracts on the London and Birmingham line came back
to the Company uncompleted. Of course the contractors
did not get quit of their engagements without much.

delicate and painful negotiation with the directors. In

1839.]       THE TESTIMONIAL.    241

other cases where the contracts were fulfilled, the course of

their performance was marked by misunderstandings and

disputes between the Company and the master-employers.

To arbitrate in such disputes, and to adjudicate in such

difficulties, Robert Stephenson was by temper, information,
and reputation, peculiarly fitted; and it adds not a little

to his fame that in nearly all the disagreements between

directors and contractors he was appointed sole umpire.

   The course thus commenced on the London and Bir

mingham line was continued on the North Midland, the
Derby Junction Railway, and the York and North Mid
land. Whenever a contractor on one of his lines was

contending with directors about the terms of an agree
ment, it was left with Robert Stephenson to arrange the

diflerence.

Such services merited signal reward; and in 1839 a

movement was set on foot to make an appropriate ac

knowledgement of them. A party of gentlemen, who

were assembled (April 2, 1839) in Birmingham on a dif
ferent business, suggested the propriety of presenting the

popular engineer with a testimonial. The proposition was

so well received, that before the meeting separated the

affair had been well started. A committee, with Mr.
J. D. Barry, of Manchester, for honorary secretary, had

been appointed, with powers to ask for subscriptions----it
being arranged that no contribution should exceed £5 and

that no one should subscribe but `gentlemen who had

been engaged as contractors for the construction of rail

ways or for the supply of permanent materials. A sum of

£200 was subscribed in the room, and by the following

November the committee held more than £1,250 for the

accomplishment of their object.

VOL. I.      R

242  - LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XII.

   In the previous July a committee of taste had been
appointed to decide on the form of the testimonial. In
this committee Sir John Guest, M.P., and Mr. Crawshay

represented the iron trade, Mr. Bramah and Mr. Maudslay
the engine manufacturers, Mr. Freeman and Mr. Bazley
VVhite the stone and cement trades,. Mr. Dowson and

Mr. Holland the timber trade, Mr. David M`Intosh and

Mr. Thomas Jackson the operative railway contractors.
They selected a service of plate, of which the principal

ornament was a candelabrum.

    This service was presented to Robert Stephenson on
Saturday, November 16, 1839, when he was entertained
at a grand dinner in the Albion Hotel, Aldersgate Street.
The banquet was attended by more than two hundred

gentlemen, several of whom came from Lancashire. In

the absence of Mr. Crawshay, who was to have taken the
chair, Mr. William Routh (Mr. Crawshay's partner) pre
sided, the vice-presidents being Messrs. Joseph Dowson,
John Joseph Bramah, Thomas Grissell, and Thomas Jack
son. On the chairman's right sate Robert Stephenson,
the hero of the evening. On the left of the chairman

was George Stephenson. At present, the father had

received no similar acknowledgement of his services, as
` the Author of the Railway System.' Indeed, his achieve
ments had for the moment been eclipsed by those of his
son. The fine old man, whose kindest teacher had been

adversity, was even yet not duly appreciated in the metro
polis. His manners were rugged and far from prepossess
ing, and his personal connections were for the most part
in his own ` old country.' For one inhabitant of London
who visited the Liverpool and Manchester line, ninety and
nine were familiar with the works on the London and

1839.]                 THE TESTIMONIAL.                  243

Birmingham Railway. Moreover, the father, with the

appearance and reputation of having seen more years than

he actually numbered, was in the decline of life, whilst

the power and fortunes of the son were in the ascendant.

It is therefore easy to account for the fact, that ` the

Father of the Railway System ' saw his son thus publicly

honoured, whilst he himself had been comparatively un

noticed.

George Stephenson had still to wait for his ` railway

testimonial    '  but  not  the  less was  he delighted  with his
             ;

son's triumph. Indeed, why should he grudge ` the lad '

the world's homage? To make him ` a great man ' had

been his aim from the time when he wrote down the boy's
name as `engineer ' on the plans of the Stockton and

Darlington line.

   In his life of turmoil and many cares Robert Stephen

son had few opportunities for domestic repose. Whenever

he could manage to do so, he spent Sunday at Haverstock
Hill, often posting for hours in order that he might have

a quiet day with Mrs. Stephenson. From 1838 to 1844

the urgent calls upon his time in different parts of the

country made his presence in his own house almost a

surprise to its inmates; but whenever he was there the

home was the merrier. Amongst the thousands of letters
perused for this memoir, the following was found tied up
with epistles relating to improvements in the locomotive

and the execution of orders at the Newcastle factory.

                                         ~ Feb. 1840.

  IDEAR EDWARD, -- bought when last in Newcastle two plaids,

which have been intensely admired, and this compels me to
venture on troubling you to purchase two more of the same
pattern. The ladies have determined upon sporting plaids of

                                              R2

244      LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.           [OIL XII.

this character in the precincts of the metropolis, and in a

season or two they expect to be designated Scotch lassies.

The above sketch is made with the view of guiding you in
selecting the same pattern, by which you will perceive that the

Iground is green with stripes of red and what call black, but
Iwhat call the black stripes seems to partake of the qualities
Iof the chameleon, for Fanny declares it to be lavender. Now

am obliged to confess total ignorance of this peculiar colour
Ilavender; suffice it to say still consider it to ordinary eyes
Iblack.  would therefore advise you, if you meet with a colour

Ibetween black and lavender, to consider that you have hit the
mark.    purchased these said admired plaids at Robson and

Henderson's, and they may perhaps recollect a strange out

landish-looking gent purchasing two plaids, and requesting
Ithem to be forwarded to the Queen's Head.
                                              mention this
Ias a sort of collateral aid to you in your commission, which fear

you will consider a difficult one. The sketch shows the exact

distances and the relative widths of the stripes, for it is made

by laying the plaid upon the sheet of paper.

IShould you succeed, you will be good enough to send them by
coach.   paid one sovereign each for mine, and they are of fine

quality. This is essential, as they are infinitely warmer than

coarse ones.

  IFanny, think, is going on well, although she is still grazing

on macaroni, and occasionally a little marine flesh, vulgarly

called fish. She desires to be kindly remembered to all, and

requests me to say all the  are well.

                            Yours sincerely,

E. J. Cook, Esq., Newcastle-upon-Tyne.        Ron. Srarnnusou.

   By this time the incumbrances of the Stanhope and
Tyne Railway had grown with fearful rapidity. In 1839
the portion of line between Stanhope and Medomsley

was declared to be so ruinous, that the directors deter

mined no longer to work it. The railway being thus
disused, the lime quarries held on lease at a rent of

£2,000 per annum could no longer be worked with

1839.]  PECUNIARY EMBARRASSMEN TS.  `Z45

even a semblance of profit, and were consequently per
mitted to lie idle. Thus nearly the whole of the
original scheme was deserted as bad, when its desertion
entailed on the speculation an annual payment of rent
amounting to £2,300. By the end of the following year
(1840) the debts of the Company were so great that
creditors began to clamour. Bills for which the Com
pany was responsible were floating about in all directions,

and the holders refused to renew them.

- Until the close of 1840, Robert Stephenson was in
ignorance of the exact nature of his position. He knew
that, as payment for professional services, he held shares in
a line that had turned out badly; and somewhat vaguely
he had for two years feared that the consequence of his
holding £1,000 of stock would be that he would have to

pay up some hundreds more to make an arrangement

with the creditors of the association. In 1840, however,

he learnt to his horror that, as a shareholder, he was

personally responsible for the entire debts of the under

taking. It was also frankly intimated to him that, unless

certain bills were met on their falling due, the holders
would come upon him for the money. He could
scarcely credit the announcement. Without his know
ledge insolvency had long been staring him in the face.

   Of all the shareholders, he was perhaps the one from
whom the creditors of the Company were most secure of

payment. It was known that he had for years been

earning a magnificent income, not one half of which he had

expended on his pleasures or his establishment. It was

known also that he disliked speculation, and invariably

put his savings into investments that were secure, and

could be easily realised. His professional position and

246     LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                                                                  [CIL XII.

public reputation also would spur him to a prompt liquid

ation of legal claims on his purse. To him, therefore,
was brought the first bill which the directors could not

meet. To Robert Stephenson, who throughout life was

strangely ignorant of the simplest rules of law, the appli

cation at first seemed little more than an awkward joke.

He soon regarded the affair in a different light; and

coming in great agitation to his friend and solicitor

Mr. Parker, asked what ought to be done. Writing to

Mr. Cook at Newcastle on December 2, 1840, when the

blow was still new, Robert Stephenson said--

  I Ihope you will be able to make a dividend soon : wish this
Ifor two reasons--firstly, because want money, and secondly
I Ifbecause don't like your bankers.*
                                        they are not speculating
I Ibeyond what is prudent am deceived. And in that opinion

am borne out by several circumstances which have lately been

Ibrought before me in a way likely to affect myself very seriously.

That prince of rogues has, am sorry to say, involved all parties

Iconnected with the Stanhope and Tyne and almost all the banks

of Newcastle and Sunderland. When first became acquainted

with the awful responsibilities which the Stanhope and Tyne had

Iincurred, and the utter inability of the concern to meet them,

was perfectly stunned, and your bank has lent them on bills

I£51,000, which are at this moment floating. Some become

due next Saturday, on which day, have no doubt, the Stanhope

and Tyne Company must stop payment.     This exactly what
   am most anxious to do, for to allow
                                        and ---- to proceed
I
            I
                    I

                          I
                                                                                                               is-
further would be madness.  have got parties in London to

write down to the bankers not to accept or renew any more

bills.  left town last night for the purpose of getting them

to do so, but expect am in time to stop his reckless career.

   At Mr. Parker's advice, an extraordinary general

meeting of the proprietors was summoned for December

  ' This suspicion, as the business men of Northumbria  can testify, was

signally justified by subsequent occurrences.

1840.]  THE STANHOPE AND TYNE COMPANY.  247

20, 1840, which was adjourned to January 2 next
following. At this adjourned meeting it was decided to

dissolve the Company, and to form a new Company with
a capital of £400,000, such new concern taking, at the

same time, the property and the debts of the bankrupt

association and applying to Parliament for incorporation.

This bold plan offered the shareholders the only chance

of extrication from their embarrassments. The intention

of the new projectors was to apply their subscribed capital

to the immediate liquidation of their debts, and by

stringent economy to endeavour to carry on the concern
Ifwithout loss.
                 they should succeed, all would be well.

But even if failure should be the fate of the new Company,

acting under parliamentary sanction, individual share

holders would be defended from ruin.

  There was no room for loss of time. It was neces

sary that the capital of the new association should be

subscribed and paid up without delay, for creditors were

importunate. On February 5 another meeting of share

holders was held, when the resolutions of January 2 were
confirmed and the old Company was dissolved. At the

time of the dissolution, there were forty-nine interests in

the proprietary of the Stanhope and Tyne Company. Of

these thirty-six absolutely consented to the dissolution; of

five other interests, where the original holders were dead,

four executors gave in their consent, the fifth executor
being abroad and not opposing. Four other shareholders

were bankrupt.

   Of course all the shareholders were invited and urgently

pressed to subscribe to the new speculation. Equally a

matter of course was  it,  that the smaller shareholders

were disinclined to embark their hundreds on another

248  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.        [OIL XII.

venture between Stanhope and Tyne. They were only
too glad to put their liabilities on shoulders stronger than

their own. It remained for the greater men with greater

interests at stake to advance their thousands on the effort

of retrieval. The assets of the dissolved Company, at a
liberal computation, did not exceed £307,383, whilst the
liabilities of the affair were £440,852. To deal with this

accumulation of debt, the monied men made great efforts
to contribute effectually to the capital of the new under

taking.

    On the committee of the new Company Robert

Stephenson's name was placed, and, regarding the venture

as the only possible means of escaping from his perilous
position, he threw himself heartily into its interests. The
line of action once decided on, his mind became easier;

and with the soothing assurance that the best measures
had been adopted, he resolved to persevere in them and
await their result with calmness. On the evening of the
29th he wrote to Newcastle.

     35% Great George Street, Westminster : Dec. 29, 1840.

  IDEAR EDWARD,-- We have this day had a meeting of the

Stanhope and Tyne Railway, and hope its result portends
good, but it is still somewhat uncertain. The Company's affairs

are awfully deranged, and the precise consequences no one can

venture to predict. We may possibly struggle through, but this
I Ihope may prove fallacious. . . . .
     dare say                          shall very
Ishortly be at Newcastle, when can explain more at length all

ii_I ~ Ithe outs and ins in this affair, which are too painful and too

lengthy for an epistle of an ordinary character. When was
last at your canny town intended to have gone into the

Imatter with my friend Stanton,* but, as you saw, was too
   " Mr. Philip Stanton--one of the many friends whom Robert Stephenson
attached to himself in early life, and kept close to his heart till death.

1840.]  MEETING OF STANHOPE AND TYNE.               249

much occupied and too anxious to sit down to talk over matters

involving such consequences. The history of the Stanhope and

Tyne is most instructive, and one miss of this kind ought to
I I Ifbe, as it shall be, a lesson deeply stamped.
                                                    the matter get

through, promise you shall never be similarly placed again.

IOrdinary rascality bears no relation to that which has been
brought into play in this affair.  conclude from what has
transpired that all the ---- will shortly be in the Gazette, and

how many they may drag after them into the same position it

is impossible to predict.

    On January 12, just ten days after the adjourned
general meeting, £250,000 of the proposed capital of
£400,000 were subscribed for the new association,

the rest of the required sum being in due course found.

Robert Stephenson put his name down for £20,000

and, like his fellow-subscribers, promptly paid the amount
of his subscription as the instalments agreed upon
became due. To fulfill this engagement he had to raise
money by all the means in his power, and to transfer one
half of his share in the Newcastle factory to his father.

                                                                   Hampstead: Jan. 4, 1841.

  IDEAR EDwARD,-- Your view as to my wishes respecting one

half of my interest in the factory is exactly what wish. The
transaction is not intended to be otherwise than bond fide

Ibetween my father and myself. The fact is, owe him nearly
I I£4,000, and have not now the means of paying him as expected
I should have a month or two ago. All my available means must
Inow be applied to the Stanhope and Tyne. On the 15th of this

month have £5,000 to pay into their coffers. The swamping
of all my labours for years past does not now press heavily on

Imy mind. It did so for a few days, but feel now master of
I Imyself; and though may become poor in purse, shall still

have a treasure of satisfaction amongst friends who have been
friends in my prosperity. The worst feature in the case is the
all-absorbing character of my attention to the rectification of

its embarrassments, which if produced by legitimate misfortune

250  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XII.

Iwould have been tolerable, but when produced by . . . . men

who are indebted to me, they become doubly afflicting. am
not without hopes that before the 15th of this month we shall

Ihave succeeded in bringing the affairs into a tangible state, and

about that date hope to be in Newcastle.

                                                     Yours sincerely,

                                                                          ROB. Srnrrmnson.

   Anxious to get rid of a bad name as well as bad fortune,
the new association petitioned Parliament for incorporation
under the title of `The Pontop and South Shields Railway
Company.' Their prayer was successful, but they did not
gain the Royal assent without a struggle. The same evil
influence which had brought the affairs of the Stanhope

and Tyne into so disastrous a condition, opposed to the

utmost the Pontop and South Shields line. Through

that influence, a petition was concocted imploring
Parliament that the Act desired by the new Company

should not become law. Readers unacquainted with the
daring of reckless and embarrassed speculators, and
ignorant of the ease with which such persons can work
on the passions` of the ill-informed, will scarcely believe
that a most vigorous opposition was maintained against
so honest and necessary a project. The opponents of

course represented that the `Pontop and South Shields'
scheme was simply a conspiracy on the part of the rich
to oust the poor shareholders from an undertaking just
as it was about to become profitable. Absurd as such a
charge was, it gained so much credit that on the second
reading before `the Lords,' Lord Canterbury denounced

the Bill as `a measure of spoliation.'

    Amongst other plans for effecting their objects, the
directors of the ` Pontop and South Shields' line entered

1841.]          GEORGE HUDSON.  251

into a compact with the projectors of the Newcastle and

Darlington Railway, which line had for some time been

sketched out by those who were bent on uniting the

Tyne and the Thames by an iron road. The chief points

of the contract can be stated in a few words. Five miles

of the Stanhope and Tyne line formed a connecting link

between the Durham Junction Railway and the Brandling

Junction Railway, and were used for conveying passengers

between the towns of Newcastle, Gateshead, South Shields,

Sunderland, and other important places. It was proposed

to make these five miles of railway a part of the Great

North of England Railway, which was to unite Newcastle

with London and the southern and western parts of the
country. Of course such a proposal took from Robert

Stephenson and his brother directors a heavy weight of

anxiety, opening up to them, as it did, a profitable market

for a portion of their encumbered property, and ensuring

them powerful cooperation in their approaching par

liamentary battle. The two Companies agreed to assist

each other.  t

This arrangement is worthy of notice ; for George

Hudson was appointed chairman of the Newcastle and

Darlington Junction line, and to watch the Bill through

Parliament in the session 1841--42 he quitted York and

came up to London, where he speedily became powerful

in the railway world. One of the consequences of the

arrangement between the two Companies was that Robert.

Stephenson became the engineer of the line in which the

Railway King was interested.

   It was an anxious session for Robert Stephenson, and

he had reason to dread the advent of George Hudson

upon the scene. Fortunately, however, the chairman of

252  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XII.

the Newcastle and Darlington Junction Line was the fit
man for the occasion. Human nature round West

minster Abbey closely resembles human nature round
York Minster ; and when Hudson entered the committee
rooms of the House of Commons, he found the weak,
there as elsewhere, obedient to the stronger will. He
found throngs of men, eager, grasping, shrewd, and un
scrupulous, but lacking the nerve and definite purpose
which are necessary for success in commercial gambling ;
he saw, in fact, an army without a commander, yet sorely
wanting one. Delicacy and fine tact would have stood in
Hudson's way. The leading characteristics requisite for

a chief over such men, battling and struggling on a new
field of enterprise without organisation, are imperious

temper, shrewd selfishness, and fierce bull-dog resolution
to overcome every antagonist. These qualities George
Hudson possessed in an eminent degree, as well as a
natural force of intellect beyond that of the inferior sort
of ordinary men.

    The result of the session was fortunate alike for Robert

Stephenson and George Hudson. The Pontop and South
Shields and the Newcastle and Darlington Junction Bills
both passed; and Robert Stephenson not only saw his
way to the end of the Stanhope and Tyne difficulty, but
secured the direction of a work destined to afford him
much gratification. To connect London and Newcastle
by railway communication had long been a favourite
object of Robert Stephenson's ambition, and nowlhe was
called upon to construct the last link of the chain. Con
gratulations poured in upon him from all sides. `Many
thanks,' he wrote to one friend, ` on your kind con
gratulations on the Stanhope and Tyne business; for

1841.]        MRS. STEPHENSON'S DEATH.                                                253

next    not equal) to one's own pleasure in one's own
        is (if
                   it
success that of knowing our friends participate in it.'

Before the Stanhope and Tyne affair dismissed from
                       a
                                         is
consideration, may be well to state that the Pontop and

South Shields line turned out great success, and was,-in

the course of few years, sold on good terms to the
              a

Newcastle and Darlington Junction Railway Company.

   The anxious and trying year of 1841 was marked

to Robert Stephenson by one pleasing event. In the

August of that year the King of the Belgians created him
   Knight of the Order of Leopold, the honour being
a

                                                                                ,

                                                                          a
conferred as `a testimony of his Majesty's satisfaction
with improvements made in locomotive engines, which
improvements have turned to the advantage of Belgian

iron roads.'

The cloud of the Stanhope and Tyne trouble had,

however, scarcely been dispelled, when far darker cloud

took its place, and Robert Stephenson was called upon
to endure the great sorrow of his life. Mrs. Stephenson

had for two years suffered from malignant cancer, when
she expired, without experiencing the weary duration of

agony which that malady sometimes inflicts upon its

victims. Tender and true to the last, she studied to

lighten the blow which was soon to fall upon Robert

Stephenson, and which, as he long afterwards remarked

to friend, took away from him half his power                                          of
a                      `
                                a
enjoying success.' When he was created Knight of the

Order of Leopold she, already too sick to care for earthly

honours, feigned the pleasure she would, few years
                                                                                   a

earlier, have really felt at the distinction. When the
session of 1.841-42 secured him from threatened insol
vency, and commissioned him to lead the Northern Railway

254     LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                  [C11 XII.

into his `dear old canny town,' no one exulted more at
his triumph than the gentle woman who knew full well
that, while the sods were being cut to make way for
the new road, the turf would be raised for her own

grave.

     Even while such a calamity was impending, Robert

Stephenson could not defer the claims of business. His

note-book and letters during the summer months of 1842

show him passing from place to place along the route of

the Darlington and Newcastle road, posting from one

midland town to another to be present at important nego

tiations, and, when he was in London, working more than

twelve hours out of every twenty-four over calculations,

plans, estimates, and the burdensome correspondence en

tailed upon him by his many engagements, from Wales to

Hull, and from Northumberland to the South of Europe.

     On September 17 he returned to London from Cardiff,

where he had been for two days examining the docks,

and immediately on reaching Great George Street had a

consultation about the Hull Docks. The 18th (Sunday)

was spent alone with Fanny : but the next six days were

devoted to business.  These  are the  engagements   and
                                                         ,

objects of attention jotted down in his note-book.

   19th. -- Hull Docks -- Darlington and Stockton Bridge ----

French Railway.

   20th. -- French Railway-- Bute Docks -- Darlington Bridge.

   21st.-- French Railway Report.

   22nd. --- French Railway Report -- Hull Docks.
   23rd. -- French Railway Report --- Hull Docks.
   24th.-- French Railway Report -- Hull Docks.

   Sunday (the 25th) was, like the preceding day of rest,
spent with Mrs. Stephenson; but during the three suc

1842.]  NOTE-BOOK.  255

ceeding days the French Railway, the Stockton Bridge,
and the Pontop and South Shields line, occupied most-of
his time and energy. The spaces allotted in the diary to

the next five days are filled up with `At home_Famiy

very ill.' And then at the date of October 4, standing
out in affecting contrast to the brief memorials of
enterprise and labour by which it is surrounded, is the
following entry in Robert Stephenson's hand :--` My dear

Fanny died this morning at five o'clock. God grant that

I may close my life as she has done, in the true faith, and

in charity with all men. Her last moments were perfect

calmness.' On the following Tuesday (October 11) she
was interred in Hampstead churchyard, where in after

years her husband often came to stand alone and indulge
in solemn meditation. She wished him to marry again,

and on her death-bed urged him to do so. It was the

only wish of hers with which he did not comply.
    Another extract from the note-book will show how he

was literally dragged from his wife's grave to the turmoil

and agitation of business.

    Oct. 11th.--Funeral of my beloved wife.

    12th.-- Home -- Stockton and Darlington Bridge.
    l3th.-- Stockton Bridge, plans and specifications -- West
London, estimate and plans -- French Railway Report with
Berkley -- Maidstone Bridge.
    14th.-- Maidstone Branch with Bidder--Norwich plans --
Newcastle and Darlington plans --French Railway Report.

     l5th.--Maidstone Branch with Bidder, and returned to
 London.

   During the next two years he had perhaps more work
on his hands than at any other time of his life; but of all
his engagements_the continental lines, the docks, and
his home railways--the task just then nearest to his heart

256  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                   [O11 XH.

Jwas the construction of the Newcastle and Darlington
  unction, the line which would unite the metropolis with
his `ain countree.'

    Two years saw the necessary works for effecting the
junction begun and ended, and on June 18, 1844, the line
was opened with general rejoicing and a public reception
of the two Stephensons at Newcastle. The population on
the banks of Tyne displayed great excitement. Bells

were rung, cannon fired, and triumphal arches raised.
Processions of workmen headed by bands of music,

marched up and down the precipitous streets of the two
boroughs, which throughout the day were crowded by
the inhabitants of the surrounding colliery villages.
The London `Morning Herald' came to Tyneside that

day within eight hours after its publication--a feat never
before achieved. Antiquarians, who abound in Newcastle,

ferreted up old newspapers, letters, and account-books,
throwing light on the means of transit enjoyed by their
ancestors. Copies of the following advertisement (inserted
in the `Newcastle Courant' in 1712) were, with many
other interesting scraps, handed about, and in due course
enlivened the columns of the local papers :--

   Edinbro', Berwick, Newcastle, Durham, and London stage

coach begins on Monday, October 13, 1712. All that desire

to pass from Edinbro' to London, or any place on the road, let
them repair to Mr. John Baillie's at the Coach and Horses at the

Headof Canongate,Edinbro', every other Saturday, or to the Black

Swan in Holborn every other Monday, at both of which places

they may be received in the stage-coach, which performs the

whole journey in thirteen days without any stoppages (if God
permit), having eighty able horses to perform the whole journey,

each passenger paying four pounds ten shillings, allowing each
passenger 20 lbs. of luggage; all above, sixpence per lb. The

coach sets off at six o'clock in the morning.  .

1844.]   REJOICINGS AT NEWCASTLE.  257

   The Darlington and Newcastle line is by no means
devoid of engineering interest, for one of its principal
works is the Victoria Bridge, which spans the river Wear
and the rich valley watered by that important river.
Built of stone, this beautiful bridge will probably exist a
memorial of Robert Stephenson's capacity, when his later
viaducts of more stupendous dimensions, and carried
through the air at far greater heights, shall, in conse
quence of their less durable material, live only in history.

A fairer monument no engineer could desire. Surrounded

by scenery of uncommon loveliness, its bright arches

thrown from ridge to ridge (one of them leaping at a
bound the entire width of the navigable river, the others

spanning the fat pastures and wooded ascents on either

side of the valley), present a spectacle singularly expres
sive of the grace and power of genius. No excursionist

to the North of England should fail to leave the train at

Washington, and spend a few hours at the base of Pensher
Hill, in the valley of the Wear. On the summit of the
hill is the ill-designed monument to the memory of
Lord Durham, whilst rising from the ground beneath

are Robert Stephenson's elegant curves of massive

stone.

   An importantpart of the celebration at Newcastle on
June 18, 1844, was the dinner in the Town Hall, of which

about 350 gentlemen partook. George Hudson was in
the chair, Mr. Davies, the vice-chairman of the Company,
officiating as vice-president, and Mr. John Bright, the

present member for Birmingham, being one of many

notable persons present.
   The speech of the day was made by George Stephenson.

The Hon. H. T. Liddell, M.P., on proposing the health of

VOL. I.  s

258  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Cn. XII.

the father of ` the railway system ' gave utterance to the
following erroneous statement.

   Of all men now living, concluded Mr. Liddell, none have

conferred so great an amount of practical benefit on society as
his respected friend, and their admired guest, Mr. Stephenson,
who, aided by strong natural talents, commencing from a work
ing engineer to a colliery in this neighbourhood, constructed the

first locomotive that ever went by its own spontaneous movement

along iron rails. (Applause)

   To appreciate the full force of this blunder the reader
must bear in mind that the Liddells reside in the imme

diate neighbourhood of Newcastle ; that Sir Thomas
Liddell (afterwards Lord Ravensworth), as one of the

` grand allies,' was amongst George Stephenson's early

employers; and that it was on the property of the ` grand
allies ' that the locomotive (to which the speaker referred)
was used, after it had been built with Sir T. Liddell's

money subsequent to the use of locomotives running with
smooth wheels on smooth rails at Wylam. When a man

of high character and ability could be so misinformed not
only as to the history of the locomotive, but as to facts
that occurred almost within gunshot of his father's park,
readers need not wonder at the prevalence of the po

pular error which attributes to George Stephenson the
invention of the locomotive.

    Anxious that his father should be the principal hero of
the day, Robert Stephenson, on his health being drunk
with a tumult of applause, spoke no more than a few
sentences, observing in the course of his brief reply that

` It was only ten years since he left the North to execute

the London and Birmingham Railway, since which time
he and his father had had the honour of being more or

1844.]  REMOVES TO CAMBRIDGE SQUARE.  259

less connected with every railway between Birmingham

and Newcastle.'

   Whilst the Newcastle and Darlington Railway was in
course of execution Robert Stephenson made two visits to
the continent. In 1843 he spent several days at Naples

considering railway projects, and more especially protect
ing the interests of the Newcastle factory from the un
scrupulous competition of persons whom he had uniformly
treated with liberality. On his return home he visited
various parts of Germany, securing, as his letters to New

castle testify, new and powerful connections wherever he

went.

   By this time he had given up his establishment on
Haverstock Hill, and moved to Cambridge Square, Hyde
Park. After Mrs. Stephenson's death he conceived a
dislike for the home which he had inhabited for eight of

the happiest years of his life. It was too far from town,
now that it was no longer presided over by a wife. A

widower, like a bachelor, finds it best to dwell near the

clubs, so that he can readily find society. Connected
with Robert Stephenson's residence in Cambridge Square
was a trifling incident, which should be mentioned, as it
serves to show how careless he was about arrangements
that were not connected with his profession.

    Scarcely had his furniture been shifted from Haver

stock Hill to Cambridge Square when much of it was
destroyed by a fire that broke out in the middle of the

night. Robert Stephenson, who had only slept once or
twice before in his new residence, narrowly escaped with
his life from the flames. While the house was under

going rest0ration--a work that occupied nearly a twelve
month--he took up his quarters in furnished lodgings,

                                                                    s2

260  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XII.

and had almost reconciled himself to the destruction of
his property by fire, when he was greatly surprised by a
demand from his landlord for the rent of the dwelling
which had for ten months been unfit for use. He was not
aware that in case of fire the tenant, unless he be pro
tected by a special clause in his lease, or by the terms
of a fire-insurance policy, endures the consequences of the
casualty to the extent of paying rent for an unserviceable

tenement.

    On the night of this fire George Stephenson was
sleeping in his son's house. The first in the house to
sniff the smell of fire, he lost no time in taking care of
himself. When Robert Stephenson and his servants were
in the act of flying from the burning house in their
night-clothes, the prudent father made his appearance in
the hall, dressed even to his white neckcloth, and with

his carpet-bag packed and swinging in his hand. This
anecdote is told by friends as a story highly characteristic
of his presence of mind and readiness of action.

    The year 1844 is a conspicuous landmark in the
career of Robert Stephenson. For twenty years he had
been at work without intermission, and as the result of

his exertions he found himself, whilst he was still only
forty years of age, in the first rank of his profession.
Had he however died then, he would have left nothing to
which history could point as the monument of original
and distinctive genius. He had raised the locomotive by a
series of beautiful improvements from the ill-proportioned
and ineffective machine of 1828 almost to its present per
fection of mechanism. He had, in conjunction with his
father, so fixed the English railway system in continental
countries, that throughout Europe his name was identi

1844.]  TIIE CLOSE OF AN IMPORTANT YEAR.  261

fied with the new means of locomotion. His engineering
achievements were beyond all cavil works of great
ability--but not of distinctive genius. Hitherto he had,
in the manner of a master, carried out the principles and
developed the conceptions of previous teachers, of whom

his father was the most important. The time, however,
was now come for him to take a higher position and

accomplish works altogether without precedent.
   The next six years of Robert Stephenson's life--years

memorable in the annals of social folly, crime, and

suil-ering_witnessed the exertions by which his influence
and name will reach futtue generations. They saw the
atmospheric contest, the battle of the gauges, the con
struction of the tubular bridge, and the completion of the

high level bridge.

   It is impossible to record the labours of the engineer

during the interval between the opening of 1844 and
the close of 1850 without contrasting them with the in

trigues of adventurers who regarded railway enterprise
as gamesters regard a gambling table. The triumph. of
these adventurers was brief. Just as the worker reached

the fulhiess of his fame, the chief speculator dropped
from his eminence, to be scouted by those who had

fawned on him in prosperity, and to be despoiled by

those whom he had benefited even more than by those

whom he had wronged.
   The rest of this memoir will be devoted to a con

sideration of Robert Stephenson's great public parliamen

tary contests, in connection with the atmospheric system
and the gauges; to a description of those remarkable
achievements by which he will be known as the `builder
of iron bridges,'--and to a general view of his professional

262  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XII.

and personal history from the time of his entrance into
the House of Commons as member for Whitby in 1847
up to the time of his death eleven years afterwards.

   But before this second portion of Robert Stephenson's
life is entered upon, in order that the reader may have a
complete picture of the movement which he influenced,
1t will be necessary to glance at the history of railway

enterprise and railway legislation.

1844.]  263

                      CHAPTER XIII.

          RAILWAY PROGRESS AND RAILWAY LEGISLATION.

     First Act of Parliament authorising the Construction of a Railway--
     Railway Developement from the Year 1801 to 1846 inclusive--The
     Railway Mania of 1825-26 --The Railway Mania of 1836-37 --
     The Railway Mania of I845-4-6--Difi-erence between the Crises of
     1825-26 and 1836-37 and of 1845--46--Report from Committees,
      1837--Bubble Companies--Parliamentary Influence --Parliamentary
     Corruption--- Compensation; Stories of -- The Par-liamentary Com
     mittee as a Tribuna-1--- Robert Stephensons Views on Parliamentary
     Legislation -- Observations on his Project for a ` Preliminary Board
     of Inquiry '--Causes of Parliamentary Inconsistency--Stories of
     the Parliamentary Bar--Professional VVitnesses in the House of
      Commons: Robert Stephenson, Brunel, Locke, Lardner, Bidder
     Great Britain compared with other Countries in respect of Railway
     Developement-- Results--Proposa-l for Railway Far-mers--Proposal
     for a Railway Bank.

                       organisation, like most important com

RAILmWerAciaYl systems, was an affair of small commence

ment; and to this fact can be traced the principal defects
and errors of railway legislation. The early tramways
were private works, undertaken at the sole cost, and
carried out for the benefit of private traders who for
generations bought ` way leave ' of landed proprietors,
and occasionally made arrangements of cooperation with
the owners of adjacent roads without seeking parlia

mentary sanction. It was not till the middle of the last

century that the legislature was first solicited to au
thorise the construction of a railroad, and so received a

                                                                                    I

264           LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                   [CIL XIII.

first instalment of that business which, during the last

forty years, has swelled to a prodigious bulk. A private
act of the 31st Geo. II. (1758) has reference to the road

used for coal carriage to Leeds, on which Blenkinsop's

patent locomotives used to run, with toothed driving

wheels working on a rack-rail. Clauses are also found

in many of the early canal acts, empowering the
proprietors of the canals to construct railways in con

nection with their wateriways. The first year of the
present century, however, saw the railway instituted in

this country as a means of public convenience. In 1801
the Surrey Iron Railway Company was incorporated,

with power to construct an iron tramway for public use.

A survey of the following table will show the course

taken by railway enterprise, until it became one of the

greatest and most complicated of existing commercial
interests :--

     1801  .              Acts empowering   Acts amending Provisions       Total
     1802  .              the Construction  and enlarging Powers de-
     1803  .                                                                    1
     1804                  of New Lines     ---terminecl by previous Acts      2
     1805                              1            -_                          1
     1806                            2              _-                          1
     1807                               1                        1              1
     1808                                                     2                2
     1809                   -__1                      --
     1810                                             --                    --
     1811                               1             --
     1812                            3                                          1
     1813                               1                        1             3
     1814                             3
     1815                                                        1            2
     1816                   ---2                                  1            4
     1817                               1                                      3
                                                    _-                       ---
                                        1                                       2
                                        1                         1
                                                                                 1
                                                                  1              1
                                                                                 1
                                                _----

           Carry forward  18                S 26

1801.] RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT FROM 1801 TO 1846.                                            265

                                Actl empowering        Acts amending Provisions   Total
                                     the Construction  and enlarging Powers de-
                                                       tennined by previous Acts  26
                                       of New Lines
                                                              -8-                     1
      Brought forward 18
                                                                 --                   1
1818  1
                                                                             1        1
1819     1
1820                                                                          1     3
      --
                                                                             1        1
1821    2
1822                                                                          1       1
1823  --
                                                                              1      3
      --                                                                             9
                                                                              1    11
1824  2                                                                              6
                                                                              1    10
1825  8                                                                               9
                                                                        5            8
1826  10                                                                  5           9
                                                                        4            9
1827  1                                                                 3          11
                                                                        4          14
1828  5                                                                 4           19
                                                                           6       35
1829  5                                                                    9       42'
                                                                                    19
1830  5                                                                     11     27
                                                                           6       24
1831  5
                                                                      27
1832  5                                                                  17
                                                                      24
1833  5                                                               24

1834  5

1835  8

1836  29

1837  15

1838  2

1839  .3
1840
            --

      135 164 299

   This table is a concise epitome of the history of railway

enterprise during the forty years to which it refers. The

first twenty-four years saw exactly the same number of

acts passed. In 1825, however, a sudden start was made
in consequence of the growing confidence in the Stockton
and Darlington line. In the following year, when the
success of that undertaking had been ascertained, the

number of bills for new lines was ten. The commercial

trouble of 1826 reduced the number of bills passed in
the following session to one. In 1828, however, a fresh
start was made, and steadily maintained till 1836, when

266  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C11 XIII.

the first great railway mania reached its height, and gave
the public in the course of the session no less than
twenty-nine. new bills. In 1837 the first great mania
began to subside, just as the works of the London and
Birmingham line (to which the mania was in a great
measure due) were on the eve of completion, and the
passion for railway speculation was for a time so much

suppressed, that the years 1838 and 1839 saw only five
bills for new lines passed, and the year 1840 did not see

even one. The lull, however, was only the precursor
of a storm, the fury and ruin of which made the madness
and misery of the railway mania of 1836 sink into insig

nificance. Robert Stephenson's London and Birmingham
line had familiarised the London public with railways,
and its success was-a constant witness in support of those
ambitious speculators who are always eager in exhorting

the industrious and thrifty to find for their savings a

better investment than the public securities. In 1841

an attempt was made to set the ball rolling once more,
and a bill was granted for the construction of the Hertford
and Ware branch; but so little was the country as yet

in humour to renew the ruinous game of 1836, that even
this little branch, five miles and three quarters in length,
was not constructed. The session of 1842 saw the

advent of George Hudson to London, and bills passed
for the Newcastle and Darlington line (about which
it will be necessary to speak more fully hereafter) and
a few branch lines. The depression still continued. . The
parliamentary year of 1843 saw little that was new in
the way of railway projection. But in the next session

the floodgates were opened, and the deluge commenced

which in three short years enriched rogues, beggared

1836-44.]  RAILWAY LEGISLATION.  267

honest men, swept away the savings of sober industry,

and reduced countless families to destitution.` In 1844

bills were granted for the construction of forty-eight

new lines, extending over 700 miles, at an estimated

expenditure of £14,793,994. The allowance for 1845

was 120 new lines, measuring 2,883 miles, at a computed

cost of £43,844,907. In the following year (1846) legis

lative liberality went so far as to authorise the expen
diture of £121,500,000, on two hundred and seventy-two

new lines, covering four thousand seven hundred and
ninety miles. In all, the amount of the national wealth
assigned in these three sessions of Parliament to railway

enterprise was one hundred and eighty millions, one
hundred and thirty-eight thousand, nine hundred and one

pounds.

    So long as applications for new lines were few, a

parliamentary committee was the best possible tribunal
for deciding on the propriety of investing private in
dividuals with power to construct the required lines.
From 1801 to 1824 inclusive, Parliament (as has been
seen) granted only one bill per annum. Whilst the
concession of one act a year for the construction of a
small road for the convenience of local commerce was

enough to satisfy the public demand for railways, there
were no grounds for suspecting that assemblies, which
had already considered the claims of canal-owners and
projectors of public roads and bridges, would be found
incompetent to decide with wisdom and equity on cases
connected with the creation of public tramways. Now
and then the projectors of an iron road between a nest
of collieries and a neighbouring port might possibly be
defeated in their application to Parliament, through the

268  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                 [GIL XHI.

interest of local members, but such interference would

not be likely to be either frequent or of permanent effect;
and even in the very few cases where local interests

might steadily and triumphantly combine against the

public good, the victims of such combination would be so

few, and so exceptional, that the nation at large could not

be expected to pay them much heed

   It is no purpose of the present work to collect materials

out o`f which the malignant might frame charges of cor

ruption against individuals; but it is necessary to give a
truthful picture of evils which arose only a few years

since from circumstances peculiarly unfavourable to

disinterestedness and integrity. Until the public awoke
to a full sense of the benefits of the railway system, they
were slow to discern the injustice and evil consequences
of allowing members of the legislature to sit in judgement

on cases affecting their private fortunes. Indeed, far

from dreading, they found pleasure in calculating,
that the decisions of committees would be given in
accordance with the selfish instincts of the individuals

composing those committees. So universal amongst all
classes of society was the antagonism to railways, from an

apprehension that they were injurious to vested interests,
that gentle and simple viewed with equal complacency
the constitution of tribunals which necessarily sympathised

in a very high degree with the prevailing prejudice. At

first, therefore, as applications to Parliament for public

railways increased in number, the public felt that the

general interests` of property were secured by the coni

clusions of railway committees composed of the persons
                                                       '
through whose  estates. the projectors  wished
                                                to carry

lines. When it was ascertained that the opposition of

1836-44.]  COMPENSATION.  269

members was removed by pecuniary consideration, the
moral sense of the country, far from being shocked at the
corruption, gave it their sanction. The enormous sums

that railway companies had to pay in complying with the
required forms of parliamentary application, and the yet
more exorbitant sums that had to be expended in buying
off (under title of ` compensation') the opposition of in
fiuential proprietors, appeared to the general public in
the light of guarantees that old interests would meet with
extreme consideration from the new innovators. The

publicity with which demands and proposals and arrange
ments, having compensation for their object, were made

to railway companies, by itself shows how these bargains
were regarded by the community at large. An im

poverished nobleman, owning a house and park (of the
value of £30,000) in a county through which one of the
earliest railways was carried, for a small strip of his park,
occupied by the railway, which ran quite beyond the
sight-range of his windows, obtained no less a sum than
£30,000--or the entire value of the estate which the line

was supposed only to depreciate. A few years afterwards

this same peer sold another corner of the same park for
another line for a second £30,000, and when he had thus

extracted from two Companies £60,000 as compensation

for damage done to his estate, the original property was
greatly augmented in value by the lines which, it was
represented, would inflict upon it serious injury. Of
course it was well understood that two sums of £30,000

did not represent the price of the land, but the price of

the peer's parliamentary interest.
    Similar cases were of constant occurrence; and, far

from rousing public indignation, they met with public

270  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C1-I. XIII.

approval. Any amount that could by any means be
squeezed from the funds of a railway company under the
name of compensation public opinion decided to be
legally and honourably acquired. As compensation for
` severance '--i.e. for the injury presumed to be done to

an estate previously lying within a ring fence--a pro

prietor (after requiring that bridges should be built at so
many points of the line that ` the severance ' would prac
tically cease to exist) would demand two, three, or four
thousand pounds, in addition to the extortionate price
already paid for the land actually given up to the line.

It was to no purpose that the agents of railway com

panies demonstrated that this ` severance ' was merely an

imaginary grievance, and effected no real injury to the
estate. Refusing to see the question in this light, the
owner remained steady to his demand, and gained his
`severance' compensation. Having thus sold a strip of
land at four, five, or six times its value, and obtained

heavy compensation for the purely imaginary grievance,
the owner would then candidly avow that `the sever-'
ance ' of his land caused him so little discomfort that he

could do with only half or a quarter of the stipulated
bridges, and that he would for a further sum free the
company from the obligation to build the unnecessary

bridges. In the early days of public railways, companies

were powerless to resist such extortions. They had to
buy in hard cash the goodwill of the community.
Frequently the owner who drove the hard bargain was a
peer, or a member of the House of Commons, and had

interest enough at Westminster to effect a combination

that would upset the bill for the proposed line before
committee. In other cases hekwas allied by blood or

1836-44.]  COMPENSATION.  271

friendship to county magnates who had such influence; or

even where he was only a wealthy yeoman farmer, he

often had sufficient local power to rouse the opposition
of surrounding owners, who felt they had a common

interest to serve in plundering the new railway com

panies.

   The result was that in too many cases a bill was

obtained for a new line on grounds altogether distinct
from its merits; and in an equal number of cases a
line (like that of the London and Birmingham) based
on the soundest commercial policy, and demanded by
national interests, failed to win parliamentary sanction,
because it disturbed the operations and broke into the

property of a few private persons. In due course,

however, a change was wrought in public opinion. The
utility of railways, and the benefits conferred by them

upon the entire community, having been demonstrated by
experience, the impropriety was seen of permitting
railway questionsI to be decided by persons who were

immediately and personally interested in them. It was

perceived that a needy member of Parliament, who had
been offered £5,000 for a strip of land not worth £500 by

the directors of a projected railway, was as little likely

to be solely guided to his decision by the actual merits
of the proposed line, as any impoverished member of the
judicial bench would be likely to hold his ermine spotless

if a similar bribe were offered, under circumstances that
secured him from exposure. A parliamentary resolution,

therefore, excluded from the committee sitting on any
proposed line all members who either held land through
which the line was to run, or were otherwise commercially
interested in the ejection or passing of the bill. This

'to~1  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XIII.

measure of reform did much to check the scandalous

traffic of parliamentary influence, which had been

previously carried on, without even a pretence of conceal
ment or shame, by members of both houses of legislature.
But it by no means put an end to all corrupt practices;

and indeed the principal evil at which it was directed had

in a very great measure ceased to exist, and given place
to another form of legislative abuse.

That the reader may understand this, it is necessary

that he should survey the course of railway enterprise

from another point of view.                                 -

The table and resumé given at the commencement of

this chapter show that between 1801 and 1846, inclusive,

there were three separate periods when speculation in

railways made a great start,--each start followed by a

corresponding collapse. The first of these periods was in

1825 and 1826  a great degree induced by the

operations on the Stockton and Darlington line); the

second was in 1836 and 1837 (when the first metropolitan
locomotive railway was near completion); the third was

in 1845 and 1846, when George Hudson, at the height

of his success, had for more than three years been lead

ing the country to believe that `management' was the

only thing required to make any line of railway answer.

Business men who can recall from personal experience the

events of these three crises sometimes designate them the
three periods of railway mania. The first crisis, how

ever, was so slight as compared with the second, and the

second was so slight as compared with the third, that

some persons speak only of two important paroxysms of

railway gambling, whilst with a great majority of English

men the almost universal madness of 1845 and 1846 is

1825-46.] THREE PERIODS OF RAILWAY MANIA.  273

the railway mania, and the only railway mania worthy of

record.

Between the crises of 1825 and 1836, and the mania

of 1845, there was as wide a difference in character as in

magnitude. At the two former periods the speculators

were for the most part obscure adventurers : whilst, in the
last outbreak, the gamblers comprised every rank of

society, and embraced a greater proportion of the aristo

cratic and educated classes than of the lower. In 1825

and 1836, railways were still regarded by nine-tenths of the

inhabitants of Great Britain as inventions that could never

benefit society. Landed proprietors, from the peer to the

petty yeoman, and all their dependents, viewed them with

either distrust or violent hostility. The great monetary

chiefs of the kingdom also opposed them. In London,

with the exception of a few such men as Mr. Richardson

and Mr. Glynn, there was scarcely a banker or eminent

broker who did not rank railway speculation with the

South Sea bubble. In Durham Mr. Pease, familiar from

boyhood with the railroads of the northern coal-field,

advocated the cause of iron roads ; but in Norfolk, where

such roads were unknown, a wealthy banker was foremost

amongst the opponents of railways. In Liverpool the

new road was appreciated; but in the South, at all the

principal seats of learning and commerce, it was decried
on every consideration of policy. A banker (whose name
it would be unfair to mention in connection with this

story), residing in one of the Eastern Counties, even went
so far as to make a will, leaving in the hands of trustees

a considerable property to be expended on parliamentary

opposition to railways.  It should be added, that the

worthy gentleman who made this preposterously absurd

VOL. I.                  T

274  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                [CIL XIII.

disposition of his estate lived to see his folly, and devote

his wealth to better purposes.

   In 1825 a11d 1836, the multitudes ready to embark in

railway speculation comprised comparatively few monied

persons. In the latter period, there was a crowd of pro

jects, and there was a mob of shareholders ; but in a great

majority of cases, the schemes and the projectors wanted

alike the countenance of tried engineers, and the support of

solvent speculators. It was a time very diiferent from the

crisis ten years later. Applications were made to parlia

ment for new lines, of which the engineers were charlatans,

incapable of taking the level of a grass-plot, the directors

were unknown clerks, and the shareholders were little

more than beggars. In some instances plans were sub

mitted to Parliament, the engineers and draughtsmen of

which knew the country concerned in them only through

ordnance maps. Mr. Cundy's London and Brighton line
                                     If they were not
was one of several similar efforts.

amply attested by evidence recorded in parliamentary

blue-books, a reader of the present day could scarcely

credit the stories to be told of the mushroom companies

of 1836. An attorney without practice, a few bankrupt

traders, and as many brokers expelled from the Stock

Exchange, would hatch a scheme for a new line. The

attorney (invariably at the bottom of the mischief) under
took the legal business of the association; another of the

party, without any regard to his previous education,

started as the engineer; a third secured for himself the

post of secretary; whilst the rest of . the conspirators con

sented to be nothing more than directors, with hand

some fees to be paid out of the first money acquired as

` deposit ' on shares taken by their victims.  A pro

1836.]  BUBBLE COMPANIES.                  275

 spectus was speedily concocted and a sham survey made.

 The principal business of the first few months was to find
 shareholders. To draw dupes it was necessary to have
 a show of business, and to display a handsome list of
 subscriptions. This the agents of the company effected
 by getting signatures from discharged bank-clerks, insol
 vent schoolmasters, touters of the Stock-Exchange, assis
 tants of sheriffs officers, hotel-waiters,` cab-drivers, keepers
of houses of ill fame, and persons unable to keep a house
of any kind whatever. Men whose names were entered
on lists as shareholders to the amount of thousands,
 and who were represented as having paid ` deposit '
money to the amount of many hundreds of pounds, ac

 knowledged on examination before parliamentary com

mittees, that at the dates of their respective signatures

they had not a sixpence in the world, did not know
where to look for a dinner---had not a vocation whereby

they could earn an honest subsistence. The mode by

which these indigent knaves were induced to sign the

subscription lists was not less remarkable than their

fraudulent impudence. A gentleman would meet them

as they hung about the purlieus of Capel Court, waiting
to run errands or discharge commissions for chance

employers, and would inform them that there was a
petition being signed in a certain house at a certain street,
and that every signer of the petition would receive ten

" Vide `Reports from Committees, with Minutes of Evidence and Ap

1837 : First Report from SelectCom-    pendix. Second Report, same [\Vest
mittee to inquire into the Matters of  minster Bridge, Deptford, and Green

several Petitions complaining of the wich], with Minutes of Evidence

Names of certain needy and indi        and Appendix. Third Report, same

gent Persons having been inserted [City, or Southwark Bridge and

in the Subscription Lists of several Hammersmith], with Minutes and

Railways [Deptford and Dover], Appendix.'

                                 T2

276            LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XIII.

shillings and sixpence--not for his signature, but for
his trouble in going to the appointed house for the purpose
of signing. Induced by such representations these fellows

went to the office, wrote their names down on the

subscription lists, subscribing for shares as if they were

millionaires.  As they quitted the office they each

received from an unknown agent in a dark passage the

price of their labour_that is to say, their trouble in coming.
In examination before committees these men did their best

to secure the ` agents ' from detection. The person who

paid them was of course quite unknown to them; and

the passage in which they were paid was of course so dark
that it was utterly impossible for them to distinguish the

features of their benefactor, and, equally as a matter of

course, they were under the impression that, in signing the

subscription, they were acting usefully and honestly. Some

times these ten-and-sixpenny capitalists were at a loss how
to describe themselves, and forgot to put ` Gentleman ' or
` Esquire ' after their names. The secretary, however, easily

rectified that slight omission. On other occasions they

exhibited hesitation or ingenuity in assigning to themselves

reputable residences. One subscriber wrote himself down

a resident of a well-known and respectable street, because      l
                                                                1
he had formerly lodged in it; and another capitalist

described himself as a householder in a good square,

because he often took a walk in the neighbourhood. Such

men were good enough to serve the purpose of the 1111

scrupulous agents who paid for their services. The

subscription lists were seen to be full of names: the

numbers of shares subscribed for, and the amounts

of money deposited, were quoted in the organs of railway

intelligence. Shares mounted to a premium, and credu

1836.]  CORRUPT PRACTICES.                                 277

lous dupes rapped at the doors of the bubble companies,

anxious to become bond fide purchasers of stock. In the

ensuing parliamentary session, the bills of these fictitious

associations were thrown out on examination of their

merits, or summarily dismissed for non-compliance with

standing orders. But in the meantime the deposit money,

and sums paid for shares transferred atpremium, had
passed from ` the sheep ' into the hands of their fleecers.

In more than one case, a company, together with its office,

directory, and agents, vanished before the commencement

of the parliamentary session; and when its victims made

anxious enquiries after their defraudcrs, they learnt that

the directors were the scamps of city cliques, and that

`the office' was nothing more than a room hired by the

week.

Whilst railway projectors numbered such scoundrels

amongst their-ranks, and whilst such practices were of fre
quent occurrence in the transactions of the railway market,

the public had some excuse for looking complacently on the

selfish policy of members of Parliament. It was argued,

not without reason, that the heavy exactions to which bond

fide railway companies had to submit before they could
carry out their purposes, were at least some guarantee

that their promoters were not mere penniless knaves bent

on robbing the public. It would have been well, however,
if parliamentary corruption had been confined to such

                          by.

                                                        `
extortion as was covered  the word compensation.'

Unfortunately for the national character, there were

members of the legislature who systematically sold their

parliamentary interest for money considerations, in the

manner of those representatives of the United States who

are known to be accessible to `lobby influence.' The

278  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C11 XIII.

time has not yet arrived when it would be right to speak

fully on this point. Possibly some future Pepys' diary
will reveal to Englishmen of the twentieth or twenty-first
century the names of those British senators of the past
generation who gave their votes for gold, and will describe
minutely the exact circumstances of particular compacts.
For the present, it is enough to state the fact--which is
too important, as an indication of social morality, to be
altogether passed over without mention. Nor need any
member of the existing legislature deem the honour of
his order attacked by these remarks, for as far as the
materials used for this work throw light upon a dis
agreeable topic, it can be stated that without exception
the men who profited by such shameless corruption have
disappeared from public life.

    Before quitting this painful part of an important subject,
it ought again to be impressed on the reader that railway
 companies were subjected to extortion alike by all ranks
 of society. When a railway passed through a provincial
 town, its directors found the demands of merchants and

 petty traders quite as exorbitant as those of the landed
 aristocracy. Mr. Bidder's experience as engineer of
 the Blackwall line, under George Stephenson, gives
 emphatic support to this statement. The Blackwall line

 was the first railway to pass through a very populous
 suburb and a crowded quarter of the metropolis; and
 in completing that important work the directors had
 daily to submit to demands for compensation, compared
 with which the exactions of county gentry were liberal

 arrangements.

     By 1845, it was found that railways did not depreciate
 the property, lower the rents, scare the cattle, or poison

1845.]    RAILWAYS BECOME POPULAR.     27 9

the atmosphere of the districts they traversed. It was
even seen that, morally and physically, the condition of

the humble classes was improved by the means, with
which railways presented them, of quitting over-crowded
neighbourhoods, and seeking employment where labour
was in demand. Instead of dying from frenzy, or catching
disease from the waste steam of the locomotives, the live

stock of distant counties also derived benefit from the
change. Fodder of superior quality and diminished price

was conveyed to them by the goods-trains, and breeds
were improved by the greater facility with which
agriculturists could procure stocks from remote counties;
and in addition to the benefits thus conferred on commerce

and the working classes, the convenience of the new
method of transit was highly appreciated by the wealthy.
Gentlemen who, like Mr. Assheton Smith, wished to repre
sent their shires in the House of Commons, and at the

same time hunt their fox-hounds two or three days a week,
soon learnt to approve a system which brought the best
hunting countries within two or three hours' ride of the

capital.                            -

In 1845 the aim of the aristocracy, therefore, was to

obtain the greatest possible number of iron-roads, and to

have them running close to their front doors. There

was no reason to fear that they would not pass good bills.

The evil was that, in their anxiety for railroads, they passed

bad ones also. Formerly railway projectors--by `compen
sation,' and other forms of bribery--used to purchase

the good-will of a party within the legislature. In

1845 corrupt action went on, but in a different manner.

Railway projectors (the corrupting power) were no longer
outside the walls of the Houses, but within them. Peers

280  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Cn.XI1I.

and members of the Lower House were avowedly engaged

as traffickers in the railway market, their names being
advertised in every quarter as promoters or directors of
lines. One consequence of this was the comparative
impotency of the rule which forbade members to sit in

committees on lines in which they were personally
interested. Members attached to the `railway interest '

voted for each other's projects. A sat in committee and

voted for the line in which his friend B was personally
interested; and B in like manner watched with paternal

care over the parliamentary career of the line in

which A was personally interested. The results of this

system of amicable cooperation were (as has been already
seen) a hundred and twenty new bills in 1845, and two
hundred and seventy-two in 1846. Indeed there was in

those years scarcely a single person, in either the House of

Lords or the House of Commons, who was not, personally
or through his connections, anxious that a bill should be

obtained for some particular new line.

   In the crisis of 1836, and also in the crisis of 1845, the

parliamentary committee was a tribunal ill-constituted to

do justice between railway projectors and the public; but
it must be acknowledged that under the circumstances it

would have been extremely difficult, if not impossible, to

devise a better court of enquiry. Robert Stephenson was
always a strong advocate for the creation of a railway
board, composed of persons specially qualified by education

to preside over railway legislation and administration. But
it is open to something more than doubt whether any court
that could have been formed to carry out his views would
in its practical working have been more efficient, or pure,

than the parliamentary system, with all its shortcomings,

1856.]  ROBERT STEPHENSON'S ADDRESS.  281

blunders, and inconsistencies. In an address delivered
to the Civil Engineers, on taking possession of the

Presidential chair at the Institution in 1856, Robert
Stephenson observed:

   Little more than a quarter of a century has elapsed since
Parliament first began to legislate for railways. In that period
a multitude of laws have been placed upon the statute-book
which will certainly excite the wonder, if they fail to be the ad
miration of future generations. The London and North-Western
Railway alone is regulated, as is shown by a return of Mr.
Hadfield's, by no less than 168 different Acts! Of these the

greater part were passed in the present reign.
    But it is not so much the number of the statutes regarding

railways that excites surprise. The extraordinary features of

the parliamentary legislation and practice consists in the
anomalies, incongruities, irreconcilabilities, and absurdities which
pervade the entire mass of legislation. . . . . . . Not
only is the legislation irreconcilable, but throughout the
quarter of a century during which attention has been given to
this branch of legislation, the Acts of Parliament have been
wholly at variance with its own principles. To illustrate this:

several different select committees have, at various times, de

liberately reported against the possibility of maintaining competi
tions between railways, and to this principle Parliament has as
often assented. Yet the practical operation of the laws which

have received legislative sanction has been throughout, and at

the same time, directly to negative this principle, by almost in
variably allowing competition to be obtained, wherever it had
been sought. Parliament has therefore been adding to the
capital of railway companies, whilst it has been sanctioning
measures to subdivide the traflic. The decline of dividends was

an inevitable consequence.
   Again, in 183 6, the House of Commons required its committee

upon railway bills specially to report as to the probability of rail
ways paying. This principle has, however, been gradually de
parted from, until such enquiry is now considered and treated as
unimportant. Legislative sanction having been given to a line,
it might be supposed that Parliament would also grant adequate

282  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CILX]I[.

protection, exacting from the railway public facilities and advan
tages in return for the rights afforded to it. Whilst the legis
lature and the government have exacted facilities and advantages
even beyond what they had a fair right to demand, so far from
protecting the interests of those to whom they conceded the

right, they have allowed--nay, they have encouraged--every
description of competition. What has been the result ? As

regards the completeness and perfectness of the line first made,
obviously it must have been most injurious; as regards the in
terests of the shareholders, no doubt it has been, in many cases,
most disastrous. But how does the case stand as regards the

public? Why, whatever may have been the effect for a time,
the competition which Parliament has permitted has invariably

been terminated by combination, so that the public have been
left precisely where they were.

   But the incongruities are by no means the worst features of
the parliamentary legislation now under consideration. Mr.

Hadfield's return has been spoken of. That return --in itself

exceedingly incomplete, and affording no information of any
sort respecting forty-five railway companies, for which Acts have

been obtained -- shows that the amount expended by existing

railway companies in obtaining the Acts of Parliament by which
they are empowered has been no less, in parliamentary, legal,

and engineering costs, than fourteen millions sterling. No

sooner was that fact placed on record, than a universal outcry
burst from the alarmists. ` See,' it was said, ` how shareholders

have been plundered; see how their money has been squandered;
look at this vast amount of waste, and consider how much better
it would have been in your own pockets l ' But in no one case

did those who made these bitter comments attribute the

monstrous result to the proper cause. Railway directors and

officials have been held responsible for what has been the fault,
solely and exclusively, of Parliament itself. What interest can
directors and officers have in group committees, wherein counsel
must be fee'd for attendance during, perhaps, ten or twenty days
when they are never heard nor wanted. What interest can
directors or officers have in keeping crowds of witnesses in
London, at great expense, awaiting the pleasure of a committee,
which is engaged upon another measure, and which can rarely
foresee or indicate when those witnesses will be required. The

1856.]  ROBERT STEPHENSON'S ADDRESS.  283

ingenuity of man could scarcely devise a system more easy than
that of getting a railway bill through the legislature. But who

devised that system ?--Parliament itself. Who have begged, and
prayed, and implored for alteration unavailingly ?-- directors and
officers of companies. Anillustration may show more graphically

how Parliament has entailed expense upon railway companies,
by the system it has set up. Here is a striking one. The Trent

Valley Railway was, under other titles, originally proposed in the

year 1836. It was, however, thrown out by the Standing Orders

Committee, in consequence of a barn, of the value of about l0l.,

which was shown upon the general plan, not having been ex

hibited upon an enlarged sheet. In 1840 the line went again
before Parliament. It was proposed by the Grand Junction
Railway Company (now part of the N orth-`N estern). No less
than 450 allegations were made against it before the Standing

Orders Committee. The sub-committee was engaged twenty

two days in considering those objections. They ultimately
reported that four or five of the allegations were proved; but
the Standing Orders Committee, nevertheless, allowed the bill
to be proceeded with. Upon the second reading it was supported

by Sir Robert Peel, and had a large majority in its favour. It

then went into committee. The committee took sixty-three days

to consider it, and ultimately Parliament was prorogued before

the report could be read. Such were the delays and consequent
expenses which the forms of the House occasioned in this case,

that it may be doubted if the ultimate cost of constructing the
whole line was very much more than the amount expended in

obtaining permission from Parliament to make it.
    This example will show the delays and difliculties with which

Parliament surrounds railway legislation. Another instance will

illustrate the tendency of its proceedings to encourage compe

tition. In 1845 a bill for a line n0\v existing went before

 Parliament with no less than eighteen competitors, each party
relying on the wisdom of Parliament to allow their bill at least

to pass a second reading l Judged by such a case, the policy of

 Parliament would really seem to be to put the public to expense,
 and to make costs for lawyers, and fees for officers. Is it possible

 to conceive anything more monstrous than to condemn nineteen

 different parties to one scene of contentious litigation? Bear
 in mind that every additional bill received by Parliament entailed

284  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XIII.

additional expense, not only on the promoters of that one bill,
but on all the other eighteen competitors. They each and all
had to bear the costs, not of parliamentary proceedings upon
one bill, but of the parliamentary proceedings on nineteen bills.
They had to pay, not only the costs of promoting their own
line, but also the costs of opposing eighteen other lines. And
yet, conscious as Government must have been of this fact,
Parliament deliberately abandoned the only step it ever took,
on any occasion, of subjecting railway projects to investigation
by a preliminary tribunal.

   After glancing at the facilities afforded by Parliament

to landowners for demanding exorbitant compensation, so

that ` of the £2 86,900,000 of railway capital expended, it is
believed that nearly one-fourth has been paid solely for land

and conveyancing,' Robert Stephenson went on to suggest,

as a remedy, ` a tribunal competent to judge and willing

to devote its attention to railway subjects only.'

   ` What we ask,' he said, `is knowledge. Give us, we say, a

tribunal competent to form a sound opinion. Commit to that
tribunal, with any restrictions you think necessary, the whole of
the great questions appertaining to our system. Let it protect
private interests apart from railways; let it judge of the desira
bility of all initiatory measures, of all proposals for purchases,
amalgamations, and other railway arrangements; delegate to it
the power of enforcing such regulations and restrictions as
may be thought needful to secure the rights of private persons,

or of the public; devolve on it the duty of consolidating, if

possible, the railway laws, and of making such amendments
therein as the public interests and the property now depending
upon the system may require ; give it full delegatory authority
over us in any way you please. All we ask is, that it shall be a
tribunal that is impartial, and that is thoroughly informed;

and if impartiality and intelligence are secured, we do not

fear the result.'

   It is here seen that the chief charges preferred against

parliamentary legislation by Robert Stephenson are those

1845.]  PARLIAMENTARY LEGISLATION.               285

of inconsistency and inordinate cost. Without a doubt

the accusations were fully sustained by facts; but the

faults complained of would unquestionably have disfigured

the operations of any other system.        were  evils
   The evils of parliamentary legislation

necessarily consequent on a free system of commercial

enterprise and social developement. A paternal govern

ment might have mapped out the United Kingdom (as
paternal governments did subsequently! map out some of

the continental countries), and have declared what towns

and districts should enjoy railway communication--and

under what conditions. Such legislative interference

would unquestionably have given us railways at a very
much lower cost ; and millions of money would have re

mained undisturbed which under existing circumstances

changed owners ;--but as certainly we should in the long

run have been less liberally supplied with roads.
   Much of the exorbitant expense of our railway contests

must be set down to the fact that Parliament was suddenly
inundated with railway business, to discharge which it

was unprovided with fit machinery. Business which had
previously been an occasional feature of parliamentary

enquiry became the chief subject of attention throughout

the session. The consequent confusion was not confined

to Westminster. Throughout the country there was such

a demand for surveyors and draughtsmen, that mere

mechanics could earn incomes that seldom reward the

ordinary members of the learned professions. The few
barristers who had the confidence of the few parliamen

tary agents who managed the private business of the

House of Commons leapt into the enjoyment of fees

which, at this date, seem fabulous. Their work was

286  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C11 XIII.

 comparatively simple, and required only a slight know

ledge of law. At first, they fought on the merits of lines.
In the Liverpool and Manchester, the London and Bir

 mingham, the Blackwall, the London and Brighton, and
similar contests, counsel, under the guidance of engineers,

worked up the estimates, mechanical difficulties, and
scientific problems of the undertakings. But with the
rapid increase of business they paid less attention to the
merits of projects, and procured the triumph or ejection
of bills by attention to `the forms ' required by com

mittees.

    Pages could be filled with anecdotes of great fees paid
to favoured advocates for very little work. In the full
height of the mania, one of them was found under the

shady trees in St. James's Park, leisurely lounging about
and feeding the water-fowl with crumbs of biscuits, before

the afternoon had scarcely begun. `Why!' cried the

friend, `how come you to be here at this time of day?'

I`Ch, my dear fellow,' was the naive answer, ` am

engaged to appear before nine different committees at

this very hour; and as it is impossible for me to accom

I Iplish that, thought would come Iout here, and enjoy
Imyself. Each of my clients, when he finds don't appear
Iin his committee-room, will suppose am talking away in

another. So it will be all right.'
    Not less overworked, though by no means so highly

paid, were theI engineers employed to give evidence before

committees. Of those who thus distinguished themselves,

several have already gone to another world. Robert
Stephenson, Brunel, Locke, and Jacob Samuda are no

more; Mr. Bidder and Mr. Vignoles remain. At first,

the evidence of the engineer was always given in

1845.]  PROFESSIONAL WITNESSES.  287

strict good faith ; and such, to the last, was the case with
Robert Stephenson and engineers of the same moral
stamp. Other gentlemen, however, with more elastic
consciences, regarded their position as identical with that
of the advocate, and gave testimony on one side or the
other, just as they were paid. The ordinary fee to a

scientific witness before committee being ten guineas per
diem (whilst waiting to give, as well as whilst giving his
evidence), an engineer in great request as a parliamentary
witness could frequently during session pick up I00
guineas a-day in the various committee-rooms.

    Robert Stephenson resolutely refused to give purely
venal testimony, or as a witness to say one word which he

did not conscientiously believe. At the opening of the
session of 1845, when the last great mania was advan

cing to its most violent phrenzy, railway companies even
went so far as to send to eminent engineers retaining fees
for their services in committee-rooms. One morning
Robert Stephenson and Mr. Bidder received, through the
post, cheques from various companies, amounting to more

than £1,000. No previous overtures had been made by

the directorates who forwarded these fees. Similar sums

were sent round, in like manner,to other leading engineers.
Both Robert Stephenson and his friend lost no time in
returning the cheques, with intimations that their evidence
was not a power to be bought and sold. To the honour
of their profession it may be stated that other engineers
acted in the same way.

    Prominent amongst scientific witnesses during the
memorable railway contests was Dr. Dionysius Lardner,
who detected the importance of railway enterprise at
its first outset, and zealously interested himself in its

288  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XIII.

developement. His first separate work on the subject was
a collection of some `simple rules,' by which parliamen
tary committees as well as capitalists might be guided in
forming an estimate of a proposed road. Formed on the
dawn of railway practice, the opinions of this brochure
were unsound. The Doctor had himself the good sense to
repudiate his raw theories. But unfortunately the `litera
scripta' of his fallacious rules outlived their influence,
and day after day was his luckless work quoted against
him, to the infinite amusement of the parliamentary bar,
and amidst the suppressed titters of practical engineers who
were only too well pleased to behold the discomfiture of
the man of theory. Mr. Bidder was the mathematical
witness usually opposed to the Doctor. As soon as
the Doctor was called for examination, Mr. Bidder would

rise, and present the counsel, whose duty it was to cross

examine the popular mathematician, with a handsomely
bound copy of the `rules.' Instantly a titter would rise
amongst the habitués of the committee-rooms. Dr. Lardner
would turn crimson with imitation, and strangers would
be at a loss to surmise what was going on beneath the

surface. In another minute a barrister, smiling ami

Iably, would begin by asking--` believe, Dr. Lardner,

you are the author of a little work containing a few "simple
rules" on railways?' `Yes, sir; you know all about
that, sir,' the Doctor would answer; `you asked me all
about that ten times yesterday.' ` Ah, but, Dr. Lardner,'
the tormentor would continue, `that was not before this

Icommittee. Indeed, must beg you to give me a little

information about your "rules." '

   In judging Parliament for its shortcomings and errors
in respect of railways, sight must never be lost of the

1845.]  GREAT BRITAIN AND UNITED STATES.          289

difficulties under which it acted. And before the censor

condemns the system which gave us our iron roads, he
would do well to reflect that there is no country which is

so well supplied with the new means of locomotion -- no

country where iron roads are so plentiful, trains so
numerous and rapid, and fares so low. The gravest fault
committed by our system in its early career was extrava
gance, which reduced countless humble families to enrich
a few great persons, or rear colossal fortunes for a few

hundreds of attorneys and adventurers. In 1849 * the

United States had, completed and in use, 6,565 miles of
railway. Of this 2,842 miles (the expense of which is
accurately known) cost £23,104,909, or about £8,129 per

mile. It is assumed that the remaining 3,723 miles were

made at the same rate of cost: the expense of 6,565 miles

may be computed .£53,386,885 ; whereas the 5,000 miles
of railway in the United Kingdom cost £200,000,000.
The difference of these two last sums is so vast that, after

making every allowance for the cheapness of land in
America, and the presence in the United States of
numerous inducements to, as well as facilities for, the

construction of railways, no impartial observer can be
otherwise than struck with the scandalous prodigality of
British expenditure. Still it must be remembered that we
were the pioneers in railway developement, being the first
to test the merits of the system. Profiting by our
experience, other countries avoided our mistakes.

    The American States have a greater length of railway

  ' Railway Economy: a Treatise       Social. By   Dionysius Lardner,
                                     D.C.L., &c.  Taylor, Walton, and
on the New Art of Transport, its      Maberly.
Management, Prospects, and Rela-
                                   U
tions, Commercial, Financial, and

    VOL. I.

290  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XIII.

than ourselves, both actually and proportionately to their    I
                                                              1
population. But from her extent of territory, America is
of course by no means so well supplied with lines as
Great Britain. And by every other mode of calculation

--by proportion of length of railway to extent of territory,

by proportion of railway capital to the population, or by
proportion of railway capital to extent of territory
Great Britain is richer in railways than any nation of the

world.

   It may not, however, be presumed that our railway

system is incapable of improvement. An instructive
writer (Mr. W. Bridges Adams) has recently exposed its
mechanical defects. In respect of management it has also

grave deficiencies; and it seems scarcely credible that the
present generation will pass away without making some
attempts for their amendment. The best authorities on
`railway interests' (and the term includes the interests of
the public as well as of shareholders) are unanimous in
avowing the inefficiency of railway management by

directorates elected from the shareholders. In the ruinous

contests of rival lines, lowering their fares in the hope of
reducing each other to bankruptcy, the incompetence of

such controlling boards has been signally and frequently
displayed. The competition of two railways working
through the same tracts of country has on many occasions
given rise to internecine war between their directorates.

Increasing in vehemence, the commercial strife has

degenerated into personal quarrel, and directors have not

hesitated to sacrifice their dividends and embarrass their

resources for the mere pleasure of inflicting injuryion
their antagonists. Such battles, regarded from one point
of view, are amusing: but the gloomy reflection they

1845.] PROPOSALS FOR RAILWAY FARMERS AND BANKS. 291

suggest to prudent observersif is             that the money squan

dered by directors                       is,taken from the pockets of share

holders, who regard with dismay the policy to which

they are sacrificed. A renewal of these exhibitions of folly

would be obviated companies, instead of working their

lines themselves, would let them to farmers, who, like

the farmers of turnpike roads and bridges, should pay        a

certain fixed or variable rent to the shareholders, and

Ifretain the surplus receipts?"  such` plan were adopted,
              of

                                                          a
a  new class  business men would speedily arise, who

would see their advantage in providing in the best possible

way for the public convenience, and would be chary of

engaging in contests, the entire cost of which would fall

on themselves. By such system, shareholders would be
   a
                              is
                                        a

                                                                                     a
                                                                                                      a
secure of their dividends, and the public secure of good

accommodation. The only individuals who would suffer

by the reform are the gentlemen who at present play

with money which not their own.

   Besides this wise measure of amendment, proposal

for railway bank, undertaking to discharge the functions

of bank and also of clearing house to all the Railway

companies of the United Kingdom, has of late been

frequent subject of discussion with the most influential

personages of the railway market.

   * This system has already been adopted with advantage     on some few
lines in Switzerland.

                    u2

292  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                                   [OIL XIV

                           CHAPTER XIV.
     THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM or RAILWAY PROPULSION.

Remarkable Episode in the History of Rai1ways--Co1'rection of
    Nomenclature -- Objects of this Chapter -- General Modes of Loco

     motion--Constant rivalry between Locomotive and Stationary Steam
     power -- Liverpool and Manchester Railway ---Walker and Rastrick's
     Report -- Stephenson and Locke's Reply-- Triumph of the Locomo
     tive -- Renewal of the Stationary Plan in the Atmospheric form --
     Early Inventors --Papin -- Medhurst --- Features of his Schemes --
     Vallance -- Pinkus -- Clegg -- Jacob and Joseph Samuda -- Private
     Experiments -- Trial of their Plan on the Thames Junction Railway
     -- Description of the Apparatus --Proposal to apply it in Ireland--
     Smith and Barlow's Report -- Application on the Kingstown and
     Dalkey Line -- Arguments in favour of the Plan--~ Robert Stephen
     son's attention called to it in reference to the Chester and Holyhead
                    Report --           P--ubTlihceInRtearielwstayexMciatendia----CAropypdooinntmRaenilwt aoyf
     Railway-- His
     Parliamentary  Committee

     a Committee of the House of Commons to enquire into the Merits of
     the Plan-- Their Report in its favour-- Culminating point of the

     -History -- Contests in Parliament-- Application of the Atmospheric

     System in practice -- Thames Junction Line--Kingstown and Dalkey
     Line Croydon Line -- South Devon Line -- Paris and St. Ger
     main Line -- Summary of Results -- Mechanical Efiiciency --
                                                                              --
     iEtcsoAnbomanydo-n--mGeennter--al   Applicability  to  Railway  Traffic      Reasons  for
                                        Conclusion.

THE attempt that was made some years ago to intro
      duce the atmospheric system of propulsion upon rail
ways, forms such a remarkable episode in their history,
that it deserves a somewhat extended notice.

    The invention here referred to is often termed the
` Atmospheric Railway,' but this is a misnomer. In the

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  293

economy of railways, whether scientifically or practically
considered, it is always desirable to distinguish between
what relates to the road itself, and what has more espe
cially to do with the movement of the vehicles upon it.
The design and construction of the road are matters
quite distinct from the system of haulage used; and the
atmospheric plan, being simply a peculiar mode of pro
ducing locomotion, forms no essential part of the railway

properly so called.

   It is proposed to give in this chapter a short historical

and descriptive notice of the Atmospheric System of
Railway Propulsion, from its invention, through its season
of popularity, to its ultimate abandonment ; and we shall
dwell particularly on the part taken in its history by
Robert Stephenson. He was from first to last its deter

mined and consistent opponent; at one time almost
standing alone, in the face not only of the promising ap
pearance of the invention, but of the conscientious and

powerful advocacy which it received from many of his
most eminent brethren in the profession.

    There are three modes by which locomotion is usually
effected upon railways; namely, by animal draught, by
locomotive steam engines, and by stationary steam

power.
    The first was given up at a very early period, as

inadequate to the requirements of railway traffic, and
is now only used in exceptional cases ; but between the
second and third, i. e. the locomotive engine and the
various modes of applying stationary steam power, to
which latter class the atmospheric system belongs, there

has been an almost constant rivahy.

294  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XIV.

   At the time when the Liverpool and Manchester

Railway was formed, both systems had been tried.
George Stephenson had introduced his locomotives on
the Stockton and Darlington and other lines; while the

plan of drawing the carriages along by stationary

engines and ropes had also been used extensively by
him, and was at work in many parts of the country.
When the railway approached completion in 1828, the

directors, having determined that some more efficient
power than horses must be used, consulted two eminent

engineers, Mr. Walker and Mr. Rastrick, as to which
application of steam power, the locomotive or the
stationary, would be preferable for the purposes of the

line.

    These gentlemen, after studying the examples of the

two systems then in existence, gave their opinion that, if

it were resolved to make the railway complete at once, so
as to accommodate the full trafiic expected, the stationary

system was best ;--but that if any circumstances should

induce the directors to proceed by degrees, and to pro
portion the power of conveyance to the demand, then

locomotive engines would be preferable. In any case,

however, they considered it necessary that stationary
 engines should be used on the two inclines at Rainhill and
 Sutton, with gradients of one in ninety-six, to which they

 considered the locomotive system inapplicable.

    In reviewing the detailed facts and reasonings given
in the reports, it would appear that the principal, if

 not indeed the only ground for the preference of the
 stationary system was a saving of something over twenty
 per cent. in the cost of working, maintenance, and in

 terest of capital, which the referees considered would

1844-48.]      THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.                  295

accrue by its use. Other points of comparison are men

tioned, but no very decided opinion appears to be ex

pressed in favour of either plan, except for the reason

above stated.

    The referees, therefore, evidently laid themselves open

to attack on their main ground_namely, their estimates
--from any one who had sufiicient knowledge of the

working of the two systems to detect any errors into

which they might have fallen; and the cudgels were
soon taken up by George Stephenson in defence of the

locomotive. He urged strongly its superiority, in nume
rous reports and at numerous meetings of the directors,

until at length this body, influenced by his persistent
earnestness and by the undeniable weight of his argu

               is                    and instituted
                                it,
ments, resolved to adopt                             a  public com

petition to determine the best form of the machine, the

result of which well known.

   An excellent resumé of the arguments used, on these
occasions, by the great founder of the locomotive system

    given in tract published in 1830, under the jointis
authorship of Robert Stephenson and Joseph Locke,
           a

               `

                        it

                                 is
civil engineers.' Robert lent his father very active aid

in this matter; and                  clear that he had, at this

early stage of the controversy, thoroughly mastered the

principles of the dispute, and acquired the strong con
victions in favour of locomotive power which he after

wards so unflinchingly adhered to.

    The joint essay attacks, with much force, the cor

rectness of the estimates of the referees, asserting that,

instead of the stationary system being the cheaper in the

working, there would be an economy in favour of the

locomotive in the proportion of eight to five. It points

296  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XIV.

out that the capabilities and advantages of the locomotive

system had not been properly appreciated, and that some
disadvantages of the rival plan had been overlooked;
and it concludes with some able and far-sighted remarks
on the two systems generally, which, as bearing strongly
on the subsequent revival of the stationary plan in the
atmospheric form, it may be useful to reproduce here.

   In drawing a comparison (say the authors) between locomotive

and stationary engines, the relative expense is certainly of vast
importance; but, though this is a primary object, that of de
spatch and public accommodation is of the utmost consequence,
and may be said to rank higher in the scale of importance than
expense, when the difference between the two systems in the
latter item is not very great. VVhen the traffic upon a railway

is either small or variable, the locomotive engines are not only
cheaper, but much more convenient, because the number of
engines in operation at one time may be regulated as the trade
fluctuates ; but when the stationary system is adopted, the whole

of the machinery must be employed to convey the goods, however
trifling. Where the trade is great and nearly uniform, as is the
case between Liverpool and Manchester, the expense of the
stationary system approximates probably more nearly to that of

the locomotive than in any other locality in England. It is in

this instance, therefore, that despatch and public accommodation

claim particular attention.

   In this respect Mr. Walker is of opinion that either system is

fully adequate ; but he does not appear to have duly considered
the practical difliculties which are unavoidable where a chain of
stationary engines is employed. Locomotive engines may be

compared to horses, as far as convenience is concerned, with
this advantage, that they are much more manageable, because
each engine is an independent power; but the case is widely
different in the other system, where the whole is dependent on
each individual part, and also on a series of regulations liable
to be deranged by the inattention of workinen. With the
locomotive engines the carelessness of one person extends in
most cases only to one train of carriages, whereas an accident

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  297

produced by the same cause with stationary engines occasions a
delay from one end of the road to the other, and the risk of
accident is evidently proportionate to the length of the line of
road. We may go so far as to conceive a line of railway with
stationary engines so long that accidents would be almost per
petually occurring, which leads to the inference that the con
veyance of a large quantity of goods by such a series of engines
and ropes would, in the end, become actually impracticable.

   From the local situation of the Liverpool and Manchester
Railway, it is evident that in a very few years several branches
from the various towns on each side will join the main line.
Hence the traflic on the diiferent parts of the line will annually

undergo some modification. If, however, the stationary system

were established in the outset, it would be necessary to construct
the engines of sufiicient power to meet any probable increase of
the kind, and much ditficulty would arise in adjusting the power
of the engines requisite for the different parts of the line of
road, excepting, indeed, they were all made very powerful to
meet any future increase of trade. These and other difliculties,

which are inseparable from the stationary system on a public
line of road, where the trade must necessarily fluctuate, are
easily and eflectually obviated with locomotive engines; for
should the trade in any part undergo a temporary increase, or

decrease, the requisite power may be immediately applied, or

withdrawn.

    Many other practical considerations might be adduced to
exemplify the great superiority of the locomotive over the
stationary system on a public railway, but they are of a de

scription not easily understood or duly appreciated, except by
those who have had experience and frequent opportunity of
witnessing the daily operation of machinery on railways. Ob
stacles often arise from casualties, which by bare mention in

this place would appear frivolous ; whereas to the practical man

they are of importance, and tend to demonstrate that it is of

great consequence to adopt a system, the eflicient operation of
which, as a whole, is not dependent on each individual part.

   The result of the locomotive competition on the
Liverpool and Manchester Railway gave such a strong

298  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                [CIL XIV.

confirmation to the decision of the directors, by exhibiting
the great power of the locomotive, that it appears to have

put the rival system out of sight for some years ; but the

idea of stationary power was too plausible not to be

revived. The broad fact was obvious enough, that to

convey an engine and its boiler through the air, at a speed

of twenty or thirty miles an hour, exposed to all

weathers, and to all accidents of a precarious road, and

consuming a large portion of its energy in moving its

own weight along, was not the most advantageous way

of applying steam-power. It was not wonderful, there

fore, that any plan should be received with favour, which

oifered an apparently feasible application, to railway

haulage, of the power of an engine, safely housed with

its various appurtenances in a fixed building, where it

could be worked in the most advantageous way.  .

     The invention of the atmospheric plan of propulsion

offered this promise. It was assumed that the principal

fault of the stationary system, as hitherto applied, lay in

the rope, as a means of transferring the power from the
fixed engine to the moving train; and undoubtedly,

by its great friction and liability to accident, the rope
was a serious evil. The principle of the atmospheric

invention consisted simply in substituting for the rope

another means of transmitting the power, which was

conceived to be much superior, and the introduction of

which, it was thought, would entirely remove the objec

tions to the stationary system, and leave its admitted

advantages available, without the drawbacks that had

formerly interfered with its application.

     The first idea of transmitting power to a distance by

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.                                             299

means of pneumatic pressure appears to belong to the

celebrated Denys Papin, who described, in 1688, an

apparatus, in which a partial vacuum, produced in a

long tube by air-pumps fixed at one end, caused the
motion of pistons placed at the other end. Mr. Farey, a

well-known mechanical authority, writing of this scheme

of Papin's in 1827, says: ` It is rather surprising that

so simple and advantageous a method of exerting power

at a distance from the first mover, should have remained

neglected and unnoticed so long as it has been.'
   But the more proximate inventor of the system of

which we are now treating, was a London mechanical

engineer named George Medhurst,* who, long before
railways were thought of as a general means of convey
ance, proposed and described a plan of locomotion by
atmospheric pressure, precisely similar in principle to that

                                                                                                                         .

afterwards used.

    His first notions on the subject were published in 1810,
when he described his invention of `New machinery for
the rapid conveyance of letters, goods, and passengers by
air.' He proposed to enclose letters and papers in a
light hollow vessel, so formed as to fill the area of a
tube, and to move freely through it; when, by forcing air
into one end of the tube, he assumed that he would be

able to drive the vessel through the tube at a great

velocityst He further proposed to extend the principle
by making the tube large enough for a four-wheeled

   * Medhurst has sometimes been                                                   Exactly as has been lately pro
described as Danish engineer but                                             posed by the `Pneumatic Convey
the only explanation to be given for                                         ance Company.'
this statement that he lived in

Denmark Street, Soho
           a
                is
                                I

                                                  ;
                                                                          -I-

300      LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                           [GIL XIV.

carriage to run inside  it,

                                 a

                                                                                                           .
                               on an iron road, carrying

goods and passengers through the kind of tunnel so

formed.

   In 1812 he again published notice of his scheme, but
adding the important conception that the necessity of

putting the passengers and goods within the tube might

be avoided, by substituting    much smaller pipe, the
         a
piston of which should communicate by particular
                     '                          `
                                                          'a
                       it a
contrivance through the side of the tube with the

carriage outside, and so drag along. The nature of this

`  particular contrivance he did not, however, disclose

till 1827, when, in third pamphlet, he described various

modes of effecting this object. The mode with which we

have to do here, introduced, on the top of the tube, kind
of longitudinal flap, riveted along one side, but loose on
                                                a
                                                                     a

                                                                              a
the other. The piston, running within the tube, had

wheel in front, which, as passed along, lifted up the
         a

                           it
flap, forming slit sufficient to allow bent rod to pass

through from the piston on the inside to the carriage on

the outside, so as to give motion to the latter as the

former was propelled by the pressure of the air. VVhen

the piston had passed, the flap closedof itself, the loose

edge falling against face of leather, or some other soft
                     a
                                             a
yielding substance, which made joint sufficiently tight

to prevent leakage under the small pressure the inventor

proposed to employ.

   Another important step in Medhurst's scheme of 1827

was that he proposed to work his piston both ways_

one way by forcing air into the tube behind the piston,

or by what may be called the plenum impulse ;_the

other way by exhausting the air before the piston, or by

the vacuum impulse. Taking this latter modification,

                 \

1844-48.]        THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.     301

we have the perfect anticipation, as far as the idea is

concerned, of the atmospheric system subsequently intro

duced upon railways. The merit of later inventions con

sisted in the perfection of the details of the apparatus,

which Medhurst does not seem to have considered with

much care. His invention was probably far too much in

advance of the then notions of locomotion to meet with

any encouragement for its actual trial.

   It is right to mention that the first publication of any

proposal for locomotion by Papin's vacuum principle
appears to have been by a Mr. John Vallance of Brighton,

who, in 1824, re-proposed Medhurst's plan of a gigantic

tube, substituting, however, the vacuum for the plenum

mode of action.                           -

An agitation was got up at Brighton a year or two

later for the trial of Vallance's plan between that town

and London. A short trial-tube of the full size was con

structed and worked by way of experiment; and it is

well remembered how, for want of due precaution in

checking the impetus of the carriage, the venturesome

experimental passengers were occasionally blown out of

the end of the pipe into a field beyond. But this at

tempt only had the result of furnishing jokes for the

pantomimes of the day, and of producing a rather acri

monious paper war between the supporters and the

opponents of the scheme. Mr. Vallance does not seem

to have known or thought of the much more feasible

plan of smaller tubes.

   In 1834 Mr. Henry Pinkus, an American engineer,

proposed a modified contrivance for opening and closing

a slit at the top of the tube, by means of a flexible

valvular cord. This was patented in the same year, as

302  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XIV.

also were other modifications for the same object in
1835 ; but the proposition appears to have had no prac--
tical result, and Medhurst's ideas remained in abeyance
until a few years afterwards, when Mr. Samuel Clegg, an
engineer well-known for the important part he took in
the introduction of gas-lighting, turned his attention to
the subject. After studying it well, he adopted Med
hurst's general arrangement of a vacuum tube, with a
longitudinal slit in its top, but he contrived a form of
valve for closing the aperture much superior to any
that had preceded it. This was patented by Mr. Clegg,
January 3, 1839, and a tract giving an account of the
whole system of locomotion thus arranged, and calling
attention to its advantages, was published in the same

year.
    But Mr. Clegg did not work alone in the matter, for,

before the date of his patent, he had associated himself
with an engineering firm--Messrs. Jacob and Joseph
d'Aguilar Samuda, eminent manufacturing engineers of
Southwark--who, apparently impressed with the value
of the invention, lent it powerful aid, not only by their
mechanical and engineering skill, but by the energy with
which they advocated its advantages. Messrs. Samuda,
in 1844, obtained a supplementary patent for improve
ments, and through all the experiments and discussions
which took place on the subject they were the most active
and prominent supporters of the plan.

   Soon after the date of the patent, Messrs. Clegg and
Samuda laid down at their own premises and elsewhere
small model tubes, which answered their expectations;
but, not being satisfied with private experiments, they
endeavoured to get the system tried actually upon a

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  303

railway, and accordingly obtained permission to lay
down, at their own expense, an experimental length
upon a short line at Wormwood Scrubs, which had
been made to connect the London and Birmingham
and the Great Western Railways with the Kensington
Canal, and which, though only a mile or two in length,
was dignified with the name of the `Birmingham,

Bristol, and Thames Junction Railway.' A vacuum

pipe, half a mile long and nine inches internal diameter,
was laid down on the part of the line between the Great

Western Railway and the Uxbridge Road, where the
gradient was about 1 in 115, and where therefore the
efficiency of the power in ascending inclines was put to

the test.

    This was set to work in June 1840; and as it was a
complete exemplification, on a real scale, of the proposed
plan of atmospheric propulsion, it may be as well to
insert in this place, once for all, the description of the ap

 paratus as given by the inventors.

   The accompanying figures will serve to illustrate the

description.

   Fig. 1 is a general side view of the front part of the
train and the atmospheric tube, the latter being delineated
partly in longitudinal section to show the piston, and its

attachment to the leading carriage.
    Fig. 2 is a transverse section of the same parts.
    Figs. 3, 4, and 5 are transverse sections of the tube

only, enlarged to show the details more clearly, and to
explain the action of the valve.

   In fig. 3 the valve is shown open, the piston passing
through; fig. 4 shows the method of closing the valve

1

                                                                                                                                                        1`

__

                                                                                                                                                         `

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.                                               305

and sealing the composition; and Fig. 5 represents the

valve as finally left after the carriage has passed by.
    The same letters refer to the same parts in all the

figures.
    The moving power is communicated to the train by

means of a continuous pipe or main A, laid between the
rails, and divided by separating valves into suitable and

convenient lengths for exhaustion. A partial vacuum is

                                            Fre. 3.

                                            \I
                                                                 U
                                                              'O

           :>

A%<                                                                 l`1 ~      ("firm

         I.                                                                   .
                  B,
                                                                       .1
                                   \`\(¢$\

                                    is
formed in each length of pipe by steam engines and air

pumps fixed at intervals along the road. The separating

valves are opened by the train as advances, without
                                                     it

stoppage or reduction of speed.

piston which made to fit air-tight by leather
                                                                    a

VOL.                                        x

306    LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                [C11. XIV.

packing surrounded by tallow, is introduced into the
main pipe, and connecte d w1th the leading carriage

                       -/ ///~

                                    at

of the train by an iron plate o, wh-1c h travels through
a longitudinal opening made along the top of the pipe

       %Q\\N\

                                    %ma

                                           f-?'

for its whole length. This opening  covered by
       G,

                                  teh
                                                oh
                                                     le
                                                              g is
                                                                                          aa
valve  extending also  w        len th, formed of

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.                   307

strip of leather riveted between iron plates; the top

plates are wider than the groove, and serve to prevent

the external air from forcing the leather into the pipe

when the vacuum is formed; the lower plates fit the

groove when the valve is shut, as shown in Figs. 4 and
5, and, by making up the circle of the pipe, prevent the
air passing the piston. One edge of this valve is securely
held down by iron bars aa fastened by screw bolts bb to
a longitudinal rib c, cast on the pipe on one side of the

opening; and the leather between the plates and the bar,
being flexible, forms a hinge as in a common pump valve;
the other edge of the valve falls on the surface of the

pipe on the opposite side of the opening, thus forming
one side of a trough F, as shown in Figs. 4. and 5.
This trough is filled with a composition. of bees'-wax

and tallow, which is solid at ordinary temperatures, but
softens when slightly heated.' The composition, when so
heated and pressed down, adheres to the edge of the

valve, which forms one side of the trough, and to that
part of the pipe which forms the other, and so makes an

air-tight junction between them.

Supposing now the air to be exhausted from the part

of the tube in front of the piston ; the atmosphere having

free access to the part behind will press upon with
a

                         ;

                              it
                                      is

                                                                      2

                                                       o it,

                                                                                    G

                                                              it
                                                                               it

                                                                                               is
force proportional to its area and the degree of ex

haustion and the effect of this pressure will be to propel

the piston along the tube, dragging with the leading

carriage to which  attached, and the train coupled

behind.

As the piston advances, the valve  must be raised

to allow the cormecting plate     to pass, and this

effected by four wheels H HHH, fixed to the piston rod

                   x

308  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XIV.

behind the piston: the aperture thus formed serves also
for the free admissionof air to press on the back of
the piston. When the wheels have passed by, the valve
falls again by its own weight.

   But by the operation of raising the valve out of the
trough, the composition between it and the main pipe

has been broken, and the air-tight contact must be
reproduced. To effect this, another wheel R. (Fig. 4) is
attached to the carriage, which serves to ensure the
perfect closing of the valve by running over the top
plates immediately after the piston rod has passed ; and a
 copper tube or heater N, about five feet long, filled with
 burning charcoal, is also fixed to the under side of the
 carriage, and passes over the surface of the composition,
 softening it and pressing it down, so that when on
 cooling it becomes solid, it seals the joint air-tight as
 before. Thus each train, in passing, leaves the pipe in
 a fit state to receive the next train.

    A protecting flap or cover I, formed of thin plates of

 iron about five feet long, hinged with leather, is made to
 lie over the valve, to preserve it from snow or rain; the
 end of each plate underlaps the next in the direction of
 the piston's motion, being lifted up by wheels D (Fig. 3),
 fixed under the advancing carriage, and allowed to close

 again as it retires.
     The parts above described constitute the essence of the

 plan. Much ingenuity and care were bestowed on the
 arrangement of other details, such as the entrance, exit,
 and separating valves, the mode of effecting junctions and
 crossings, the construction of the tube, the manner of con
 necting together the pipes of which it was formed, the

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.                          309

arrangement of the exhausting pumps, &c. &c.      But it is
not necessary here to go into these particulars.

The exhausting pumps on the experimental line at

Wormwood Scrubs were worked by a steam engine of

fifteen horse-power, and produced in one minute a

vacuum in the pipe equal to about 18 or 20 inches of

mercury; and by maintaining this exhaustion, it was

found that, even with the small pipe used, a load of

13-,1; tons could be propelled up the incline at a rate of

20 miles an hour; or with a vacuum of 23% inches, a
load of 5 tons would go 45 miles an hour.

These trials were considered so successful, and seemed

to promise so much for the new system of propulsion,

that they naturally attracted the attention of persons in

terested in railways, and among these was Mr. James

Pim, treasurer of the railway between Dublin and Kings

town, who, after having carefully observed the experi

ments, became a most energetic advocate of the plan. It

appears that the railway with which he was connected, had

a short piece of line from Kingstown to Dalkey, which had

been used for the transport of stone for the new works

at Kingstown Harbour, and which, having steep gradients

and sharp curves, offered what were then considered

rather formidable difficulties to the working of the line.

About May 1841, Mr. Pim wrote a letter to Lord

Morpeth, asking the permission of the Board of Public

Works of Ireland (under whose care the Kingstown and
Dalkey road was placed) for the parties interested in

the experiment to lay down an atmospheric apparatus

along this line.

   It appears, however, that the sanction of the Board of

Trade was needed to carry out this proposal, and Mr.

810       LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.          [Cir XIV.          l
                                                                 4
Pim, nothing daunted, wrote towards the end of the
same year a letter to the Earl of Ripon, President of            \
the Board, describing clearly the principle and mode of

working of the atmospheric system, and giving a lucid
and forcible statement of the arguments in its favour; the
object of the letter being to ask the Board to refer it to such

persons as their Lordships might select, to enquire into

the several statements made, and in their report to state

particularly whether the invention was entitled to a

further and more extended trial.

     The request was granted, and two scientific referees--

Lieut. Col. Sir Frederic Smith, R.E., F.R.S., and Professor

Barlow, F.R.S.---were accordingly appointed to investigate

the merits of the plan.                       It ap
   Their report was dated February 15, 1842.

pears that they conducted experiments, in January, on

the model line at Wormwood Scrubs, which generally

corroborated those of the projectors; and after making

the necessary calculations and deductions, they reported

that they considered the principle of atmospheric. propul

sion to be established; that its economy of working would

increase with the scale on which it was applied; and that

it appeared well suited for such a line as that from

Kingstown to Dalkey. On the points of first outlay, cost

of working, safety, and convenience, as compared with

the locomotive system, the referees did not venture

any very decided opinion.  -

   The report was, however, sufficiently favourable to
warrant the Government in sanctioning the trial of the

principle on the Kingstown and Dalkey line, and in grant

ing a loan of £25,000 to the Company for the purpose.

This determination was due to the influence of the late

_ -*5-=7

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  311

Sir Robert Peel, then First Lord of the Treasury, who
was on this occasion, as well as during its whole history,
a strong supporter of the plan.

   With this encouragement, the railway was accordingly
prepared, the tubes laid down, the engines erected, and
the apparatus was set to work in August 1843.

    The line was single, and about one mile and three

quarters in length. It had a short descent from Kingstown,

after which it rose to Dalkey with an average gradient of
about 1 in 116; the steepest part, 1 in 571g. There was
one considerable curve, of 518 feet radius; a shorter one
of 570 feet radius; and a third, of 700 feet radius. The

atmospheric tube was 15 inches internal diameter, placed
in 1he middle of the road, between the two rails, and firmly

attached to the cross transoms under the sleepers. It was

ir lengths of 9 feet each connected by socket joints care
firlly filled with cement. The width of the longitudinal
valve opening was two and a half inches. The arrange
ments of the valve were made with all possible care,
and with the benefit of all the experience gained by the

previous experiment.
    The pipe did not extend the whole length of the road,

but stopped- short of the summit of the hill by 560 yards,
the carriages running up this distance by their momentum

alone.

   The steam engine was placed, for the sake of conve
nience, at about 500 yards from the upper end of the tube,
being joined to it by a connecting pipe of equal diameter.
The engine was of 100 horse-power, working an air
pump of 67 inches diameter, with a stroke of 5 feet

6 inches.

   Experiments made on the line, soon after the opening,

312       LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XlV.                  n
                                                                 I
gave good results as to the action of the apparatus. It          K

was found that a rarefaction of 13 to 14 inches could be

obtained in two minutes, and 22 inches in five minutes;
the pump making 22 strokes per minute. And in running
trains up the incline, it was observed that 30 tons could
be drawn up at a speed of about 30 miles an hour, and
70 tons at about 20 miles; which, considering the diffi
culties of the road, was certainly satisfactory.

    This confirmation of the results previously obtained

on a smaller scale served to increase the popularity

of the new invention, and to stimulate its promoters to
urge its claims upon the railway world, with a view to

securing its more extended adoption.

   It may be well here to give a summary of the chief

arguments which, at various periods, were urged in favotr
of the atmospheric system, as compared with other mode:
of railway locomotion.

   The more cogent of these took the shape of objections

to the locomotive engine. It was said---
   (1) In the first place, that to make a steam engine

locomotive was eminently unfavourable for its economy
of fuel; that the quantity consumed was excessive, and

the kind expensive.

    (2) That this was also a very unfavourable condition
for keeping the engine in repair, and that the necessity of
having a large stock of engines constantly under exami
nation in `hospital' led to a very large extra outlay of

capital.  .

(3) That the locomotive engine had to overcome the

friction and other resistances due to itself, and to the tender

carrying its supplies of fuel and water ; to which had

184448.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  318

also to be added a resistance peculiar to this machine,
that of the back pressure on the pistons caused by the

blast-pipe.
    (4) That in addition to this loss, it had also, in ascend

ing gradients, to overcome the gravity of itself and its

tender.

    (5) That the use of the locomotive involved many other
minor evils--such as the necessity for repairing shops and
running sheds, distributed over the line; the liability to
slipping on the rails, to fire, to bursting, to freezing of
the pumps, and to many accidental causes of derange
ment and mischief which did not exist with stationary

power.

   Such were the principal evils said to be inherent in the
locomotive system. The only form of stationary power
with which the atmospheric plan could be compared, was

that of the rope, and to this it was objected --

   (6) That the friction of the rope was enormous, and
that in ascending inclines the weight of the rope was also
the source of much loss of power.

    The advantages peculiar to the atmospheric system
were stated to be :--

   (7) That it got rid of all the disadvantages named in
the first five heads, as inherent in the travelling form of
the motive machine, and was free also from the objections
to the use of a rope with stationary power, as the air
in the tube did the duty of the rope without either
weight or material friction.

   (8) That it presented much greater safety than the
locomotive plan, for several reasons,--that it was quite
impossible any two trains could come into collision,
either by meeting or overtaking each other; that the

314  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XIV.

leading carriages could not get off the rails; and that all
the manifold elements of danger inherent in the loco

motive were avoided.

   (9) That any desired speed of travelling might be
obtained, by simply proportioning the engine, pumps, and
pipe accordingly, without corresponding disadvantage in
the application of the power. And that, therefore, higher

speeds might be attained on railways generally.

    (10) That as a consequence of the more favourable
application of the power, and the less danger of getting

off the line, much steeper gradients and sharper curves

might be used, than on lines prepared for locomotive
haulage; and that consequently the cost of constructing

railways might be very much lessened; the economy being
further enhanced by the reduced height of all tunnels
and over-bridges, consequent on the absence of the

locomotive chimney_and the less strength required for

viaduets and under bridges, which would have less weight

to carry.

    (11) That a further and still greater saving in first cost
would result from the fact, that the principle of atmo

spheric propulsion, by ensuring regularity in the working
of the trains, would admit of a single line being used, with
safety, for an amount of trafiic which on the locomotive

system must imperatively demand a double line.

    (12) That by doing away with the heavy locomotive,
much might also be saved in the first cost and in the
maintenance of the permanent way; as lighter rails might
be used, and they would be much less liable to deteriora
tion and derangement.

   (13) It was further contended that the atmospheric

system offered much more convenience to the public,

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  315

inasmuch as it would be the interest of the companies,
under this system, to despatch light trains very fre
quently; whereas the use of locomotive power rendered
it advantageous to reduce their number, and concentrate
their weight, as much as possible. And it was also

added that the atmospheric system was much more
agreeable to the passengers, for several reasons, such as
the entire absence of dust and sparks from the engine,

less -noise, more steady and comfortable motion, better
condition of the road, &c. &c.

   (14) And finally, it was said that the atmospheric
system would enable water power to be used, where it
existed, instead of steam; and that, where a sufficient quan

tity and fall could be obtained to produce a vacuum,
machinery might be dispensed with altogether.

   The popular and plausible nature of many of these
arguments could not fail to attract the attention of the
public; particularly as the new plan proposed was no
mere untried scheme; for it was in actual practical ap
plication, working the trafiic daily over a line which, for

locomotives, at that time, had been admitted to be almost

impracticable.

   It was no wonder, then, that the atmospheric system,

working on the Kingstown and Dalkey line, at the
end of the year 1843, should be carefully examined by
railway engineers; and among the first to give attention
to it was Robert Stephenson.

    About this time an application was made to the
Directors of the Chester and Holyhead Railway, (who

were then promoting their Bill in Parliament,) with a

view to the application of the system on that line. The

316  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                      [CIL XIV.

directors, feeling that an investigation ought to be made,
commissioned Mr. Stephenson, their engineer, to examine

the invention, and to report to them whether he could

recommend its application to their railway. He undertook

two series of careful investigations, and his report to the

directors thereon was dated April 9, 1844, only a few

months after the opening of the Dalkey line; so that Mr.

Stephenson appears to have been the first independent
investigator of the system, in its application on a practical
scale. The results of this scrutiny are so important, when

taken in connection with what afterwards occurred, that

it is necessary to give them at some length.
   Mr. Stephenson commences his report by a passage

which well illustrates the importance he attached to the

investigation. He says to the Directors :--

I IWhen first visited Kingstown at your request, made

such experiments as appeared suflicient to enable me to form

an accurate opinion on the application of this new motive

Ipower to public railways. On my return to England, how

ever, found, by analysing the experiments, that many of the

results were irreconcilable with each other, presenting anoma

lies in themselves, and suggesting further enquiry.
IIt was then that began to feel the onerous and difficult
I Inature of the task had undertaken.
                                       was called upon, in

short, to decide whether a singularly ingenious and highly me

Iritorious invention was, or was not, to be applied to the
Chester and Holyhead Railway.  also felt strongly that

whatever might be my opinion, whether favourable or un

favourable, the final destiny of the invention was not in my

hands; and that if it were really calculated to produce the

Iremarkable results which had been stated, nothing could stop its

universal application to railways. On the other hand saw

Ithat,-if the principles of the invention were not soundly based,
   should be incurring a most serious responsibility in recom

mending its application to the Chester and Holyhead Railway,

extending over a distance of eighty-five miles.

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  .317

  IUnder this conviction, arranged an entirely new and ex

tended series of experiments, with the view of fully and
accurately testing every part of the invention, and thus putting

Imyself in a position to give you an opinion upon which could

recommend you to act.

   Mr. Stephenson further paid a deserved compliment to
the engineers who had introduced the system, by stating
that `the mechanical details of the apparatus employed

at Kingstown had been brought to a remarkable degree
of perfection.'

   In commencing his investigations Mr. Stephenson first

took means to test the actual capabilities of the apparatus,
irrespective of any hypothesis, by ascertaining the
maximum velocity attainable with trains of various

weights, noting also the corresponding pressures in the
vacuum tube; and an elaborate statement is given of 20
experiments of trains actually conveyed up the incline,
gradually increasing in weight from 23;}; to 64% tons.
The general results may be thus stated.

   With the lightest trains, of 23 to 25 tons, a velocity of

30 to 35 miles an hour was attained, with a vacuum of

13 to 17 inches of mercury.
   With medium trains of 40 to 45 tons, a velocity of

about 25 miles an hour was arrived at, with 22 inches of

vacuum.

   With the heaviest trains of 60 to 65 tons, a speed of
16 to 18 miles an hour was attained, with a vacuum of

23% to 24% inches.
    Mr. -Stephenson proceeded to reason upon these actual

facts exhibited. He showed that, supposing the apparatus
to be in every respect perfect, the velocity of the piston
in the tube, when uniform motion was attained, would be,

to that -of the air-pump piston, inversely as their areas;

318  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XIV.

but that, from various imperfections inherent in the

 system, this was not practically the case.
    The nature and influence of these imperfections there

fore formed the next subject of investigation, and the
principal of these was the leakage of air in consequence
of various defects in the joints, but principally through
the longitudinal valve at the top of the tube. He tried a
series of experiments to determine this, and came to the
conclusion that whatever might be the degree of rarefac
tion of the tube, nearly equal volumes of air, measured at
atmospheric pressure, would leak into the tube in equal

times; this curious result being apparently due to the

fact that at high pressure (when greater quantities might
have been expected to enter) the valve was forced
closer, and the apertures of leakage were reduced in
proportion. The average amount of leakage, measured
at atmospheric pressure, he found to be 186 cubic feet
per minute per mile of tube, or 252 feet for the whole
length, to which had to be added 219 cubic feet per
minute for the connecting pipe and air pump.

    But Mr. Stephenson went on to show that, although the
atmospheric volume leaking in was pretty uniform at all
pressures, the effect of this, as regarded the power required
to remove it from the tube, was extremely variable under
different degrees of rarefaction; for since the entering air
would become expanded according to the rarefaction, and
since the air pump could only extract a fixed volume of
the rarefied air at each stroke, the power and time required
to overcome the effect of the leakage must increase very
rapidly with the degree of exhaustion used. And hence,
as the exhaustion advanced, the retarding influence of the

leakage on the speed became more and more serious, and

184-1-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  319

the maximum velocity attainable by the train proportion

ably lowered. -
   Having determined the value and effect of the leakage,

Mr. Stephenson calculated what velocity the Dalkey tube
ought to give, at the assumed ordinary speed of the air

pump -- first, supposing the apparatus to be perfect, and

secondly, allowing for the effect of the leakage; the dif
ference between which was found, with a vacuum or

18 inches, to be 13 per cent, and with 24% inches to be
30 per cent, this difference expressing the calculated loss

 due to the leakage.
    These calculations were then further tested by actual

results of experiments with the trains, which showed that
the real velocity attained fell still short of this latter result
by quantities varying from 26 to 41 per cent, giving the
total departure from the theoretical state of perfection 39

to 71 per cent.

    The causes of this latter or additional loss of effect Mr.

Stephenson attributed partly to further imperfections in
the air pump, when in motion, beyond those observable
when at rest; and partly to the leakage round the pro
pelling piston, which he considered was much augmented
during its swift motion in the tube.

    Next followed a series of calculations on the power
consumed in giving motion to the trains, under the

various circumstances. These calculations were exceed

ingly elaborate, and, from the evident desire of Mr.
Stephenson to present to his readers all the data which
had led him to his conclusions, were made somewhat

 complicated and abstruse as well as lengthy. He had
indicator diagrams taken from the air pump at various
states of the rarefaction (which are published in full in

320  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XIV.

the report), and by this means---taking, as before, the
assumed speed of . the air pump--he arrived at the power

expended by the steam engines to produce the results
obtained, some idea of which may be formed from-the

following statement :--
   With a train of 26% tons, which attained a uniform

velocity of 34-7 miles per hour, the total power expended

was 322 horses.

   With 45-5 tons, attaining 25.2 miles an hour, the

power was 427 horses.
   With 64-7 tons, at 16-7 miles an hour, it was 415

horses.

    These amounts, however, included the power expended
to raise the vacuum, and to start the train, which was
generally more than what was necessary to keep it in
uniform motion. The value of the latter came out

practically at a pretty nearly uniform value of about 170
to 180 horses' power for all trains and speeds, and all
degrees of exhaustion.

    It was next calculated what portion of this was

actually applied, through the tube piston, to the propul

sion of the trains, which was found to be : --

   For the 26% ton train, 150 horse-power; for the 45%
ton train, 134 horse-power; for the 64 ton train, 96
horse-power: the loss (due to leakage) increasing with
the degree of exhaustion applied.

   Finally he estimated the component parts of the re
sistance offered to the motion of the trains, and after

making the proper allowance for gravity (1 in 115) and
friction (10 lbs. per ton), a large surplus was found to be
due to the resistance of the atmosphere. For example,
with the 26% ton train, moving at 34-7 miles an hour,

1844-48.]         THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  . 321

this residual resistance was found to be 78 horse-power

out of 150. With the 45%; ton train, at 25 miles an
hour, it was 44 out of 134. And with the 64 ton train,

at 16% miles, it was 11 horse-power out of 96.
   Mr. Stephenson considered this last result as of great

importance, and having a bearing much wider than the

case in question. He says : --

   In referring to the loss of power from the resistance of the
atmosphere, it will be observed there is a very rapid reduction

in the loss, as the speed is diminished, indicating most satis

factorily the excessive expenditure of power, and consequent

augmentation of expense, in working at high velocities upon

railways. This remark is of course equally applicable to all
railways, whatever be the motive power employed, and it is

here introduced only for the purpose of showing that the

attainment of speed exceeding that which is now realised upon

some of the existing lines of railway is a matter of extreme

difiiculty, and that the atmospheric system is not exempt from
that wasteful application of power which high velocities in
evitably entail. For although the resistance of the atmosphere

to railway trains has been established for a long time, the limit

which it is likely to put to every effort to obtain such velocities

Ias have been generally believed to be within the reach of the
atmospheric railway has not,     am sure, been sufficiently

brought forward.

Mr. Stephenson also pointed out, as a result of his

experiments, the necessity of working with only a

moderate degree of exhaustion; as he was led to the

conclusion that when the barometer rose to a certain

Iheight, the expansion of the air leaking into the apparatus
must become fully equal to the total capacity of the

pump, and no advance of the tube piston could be effected ;

this case occurred on the Kingstown and Dalkey Railway,

with a height of barometer of 25% inches. ` This con-'

clusion,' adds Mr. Stephenson, `which is unquestionably

VOL. I.                       r

322  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                  [CH.XI\-.

correct, points out the improvident expenditure of power

when a high degree of rarefaction is required.'

     Having thus explained the object and result of the

experiments instituted on the Kingstown and Dalkey

Railway, Mr. Stephenson proceeded to draw a comparison
between the working of the atmospheric system and of
other descriptions of motive power, with the view of

showing their relative advantages and disadvantages.

     The first comparison was with the stationary engine

and rope. Mr. Stephenson chose the incline on the

North-Western Railway, from Euston Square to Camden

Town, nearly a mile long, and with an average gradient
of 1 in 106, and which at that time was worked in this

manner. He gave a table of experiments upon and
     a

                                            it
                                                              it,
showed, by an example serving for comparison in the two
cases, that the waste of power on the Euston incline

amounted to only 45 per cent, as against 74 per cent on

the atmospheric plan. At the same time was admitted

that working longer length of line would make the

comparison more favourable to the latter plan.

     Next came the comparison with the locomotive

engine. Mr. Stephenson took as an example the atmo

spheric train of 26% tons, moving at 34-7 miles per
hour, at which rate he found the total loss of power

by leakage, getting up the vacuum, and starting the

train, equal to 53 per cent of the quantity developed

by the engine. He then found that, when locomotive
drew train of the same weight up the same gradient,
`

           a
                              aa

                                                                            a
                                                                                    to
its own gravity, friction, and atmospheric resistance,

 together with further resistance arising from the pres
sure of the atmosphere against the pistons, peculiar to

the working of locomotive,' would consume                                               waste

1844-48.]          THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.                   323

54 per cent of the total power developed. `Therefore,'

infers Mr. Stephenson, `the loss of power by the use of

the locomotive engine under such circumstances appears

somewhat to exceed that shown by the atmospheric

system; thisa            however,  most disadvantageous com
                                   a
                    is,
                                          it
parison for the locomotive engine, because the gradient

far exceeds that upon which                    can be worked econo

mically.'

    `Such comparison,' he says in another place, `cannot be

held as strictly correct, because the locomotive engine, as a

motive power on steep gradients,               wasteful, expensive, and
                         a
                                           is
uncertain; therefore on long series of bad gradients, extend

ing over several miles, where the kind of traffic such that
                                               is
                                                  is

                                                                 it
is  essential to avoid intermediate stoppages, the atmospheric

system would be the most expedient. The lightest trains

taken upon the Kingstown and Dalkey incline, at the velocities

recorded, probably exceed the capabilities of locomotive engines,

and so far prove that the atmospheric system   capable of

being applied to somewhat steeper gradients, and that on such

gradients greater speed may be maintained than with locomo
           a

tive engines.'

     As regarded lines of more moderate steepness, he
reduced the Dalkey performance to what might be held
equivalent to on level, in order to show that such
performance was exceeded on many locomotive lines;
and he added the strong expression of his opinion
that on lines of railways where moderate gradients were
attainable at reasonable expense, the locomotive engine
was decidedly superior, both as regarded power and speed,
to any results developed or likely to be developed by the

atmospheric system.
   Up to this point, the calculations and remarks in the

Report had reference solely to the question of power,

                                                          Y
                         a

                                                         it

                                                                                                 a

                a

                                   2

324  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XIV.

entirely independent of the questions of expense or cona
venience, which therefore Mr. Stephenson next proceededa
to examine, begirming with the cost of construction.
                                            it
    The advocates of the atmospheric system, knowing theis,
great expense of the apparatus, had asserted it to be
possible to work any reasonable amount of traffic with a
single line. This assertion Mr. Stephenson disputed,

showing that on a long line, if trains were despatched with

sufficient frequency to carry the trafific both ways, the
delay, by stoppages necessary for the trains to pass each
other, would be so great as to defeat the object altogether.
Hence he considered a double line absolutely essential for
any considerable length of railway; and he also con
cluded that each line must be provided with its proper
complement of engine-power. `The intersections of the

trains,' he says, `cannot possibly be made to take place

always at the same points, even on the supposition that
each railway is worked independently of every other
with which it may be in connection. When we intro
duce, in addition, the fact that several branch lines must
necessarily flow into the main trunks; that no line can be
worked independently; that the arrival of trains and

must always be, subject to much irregularity, sometimes
arising from their local arrangements, sometimes from
weather, and at others from contingencies inseparable
from so complicated machine as railway; must be
palpable that two independent series of stationary engines
are as indispensable as two independent lines of vacuum
tube, for the accomplishment of that certainty, regularity,
and despatch which ah-eady characterise ordinary railway

operations.'

   Coming to figures, Mr. Samuda, on behalf of the

é_....{_i --. -t..T».      .- .1 --1-.- -=.-.- =  -~ <->.- --I -------------------w

1844-48.]              THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.                    325

atmospheric system, had estimated for a single line of

tube as follows :--

                                                  Per Mile.

Vacuum Tube, with all its appliances .            . £3,342

Engines . . . . . . . 1,343

                                                  £4,685

Mr. Stephenson, considering a double line necessary,

and that Mr. Samuda had not taken his engines powerful

enough, altered this to--                              Per Mile.

. Vacuum Tubes .                                  . £7,000
Engines .              .
                                                  . 4,000

                                                  £11 3000

      He then applied this, as an example, to the London and
  Birmingham Railway, 111 miles long, which would
  make the cost of the atmospheric apparatus amount to
  £1,221,000, whereas the capital expended on locomotives
  and all their contingent outlay was only £321,000, making
  a difference of £900,000 against the atmospheric system.

     Mr. Stephenson admitted, that if that line had been

  originally laid out for the atmospheric plan, a saving of
  £900,000 might have been accomplished in the original
  design; but he remarked that on other lines of railway
  where the gradients conformed more to the surface of the
  country, the excess of first outlay to adapt the atmo
  spheric plan to them would be very heavy; and he gave an
  example -of a cheap railway for light traffic in Norfolk,
  where the application of the atmospheric system would

' have involved a cost so great as to render it totally in
  applicable.
      The next point considered was the cost of working,
  which, taking the London and Birmingham again as an
  example, Mr. Stephenson was of opinion would be greater

326  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XIV.

by the atmospheric than the locomotive system in the pro
portion of £74,000 to £64,000 per annum.

    Such were Mr. Stephenson's conclusions as to the capa
bilities of the atmospheric system as a motive power, and
the cost of applying it. He finally devoted a short space
to the consideration of some other questions, scarcely of
less consequence when the application of the system to

daily practical purposes was discussed; namely, the speed

attainable, the safety, the certainty, and the liability to
casualty or derangement.

    These were questions, he said, upon which widely
different opinions might be entertained, but some of
which could only be fairly appreciated by persons really
conversant with the practical working of railway trafiic.

   As to the speed, he considered he had already proved
that, though increased velocity might be obtained, it could
only be done with an inordinate expenditure of power.

    On the safety of the atmospheric system there could,
he said, be little room for difference of opinion, as it
might be stated to be nearly perfect; but he thought that
further experience would much diminish the risk with

locomotive engines.
    But the question of certainty of action, Mr. Stephenson

conceived, would be found to involve considerations

militating most seriously against the plan, even though
the first outlay and cost of working were in its favour.

   ` Each train,' he says, `in moving between London and

Birmingham, would be passed, as it were, through thirty-eight
distinct systems of mechanism, and it cannot be deemed un
reasonable to suppose that in such a vast series of machinery as
would be required in this instance, casualties occasioning delay

must not unfrequently occur. If the consequences were con

fined to one train, such casualties would be of small moment,

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.      327

but the perfect operation of the whole is dependent on each

individual part, and when the casualties extend themselves not

only throughout the whole line of railway, but to every succeed

ing train which has to pass the locality of the mishap, until it

is rectified, whether this occupies one hour or one week, the

chances of irregularity must be admitted to be very great.

The delay would apply to every train, whatever might be its

destination, and to every railway in connection with that upon

which the accident occurred. Such a dependency of one line

of railway upon the perfectly uniform and efficient operation

of a complicated series of machinery on every other with which

it is connected, appears to me to present a most formidable

Idifficulty to the application of the system to great public lines

of railway; so formidable, indeed, that doubt much whether,

if in every respect the system were superior to that of locomo

tive engines, it could be carried out upon such a chain of

railways as exists between London and Liverpool, or London

and York.                            -

`This difficulty, which is insurmountable and inherent in all

systems involving the use of stationary engines, was fully con

sidered previous to the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester

Railway, when the application, to that line, of stationary engines

and ropes was contemplated; at that time the objection of the

whole line being so dependent upon a part was maturely
Iweighed, and decided to be most objectionable. In going
through this investigation,  have again deliberated much on

the feasibility of working such a system, but without any

success in removing those obstacles which must interfere with

the accomplishment of that certainty which has become indis

pensable in railway communication.'

    Mr. Stephenson also referred to other objections;
such as the chance of derangement of the tube by subsi
dence of the earthwork; the complication of working the
traffic at intermediate stations; the difficulty of shunting,
or of stopping the train on a sudden emergency, &c. &c.
Of these, with many other objections of a minor cha

racter, he chose to take only a slight notice, as his

328  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XIV.

wish was to call attention only to the main features of the

invention, and to treat nothing as a difliculty which was

not obviously inherent or irremediable in the atmospheric

system itself.

    Finally, Mr. Stephenson summed up the conclusions to

which his investigation had led him in the following

terms :--

   I. That the atmospheric system is not an economical mode of
transmitting power, and inferior in this respect both to locomo

tive engines and stationary engines with ropes.

   II. That it is not calculated practically to acquire and main

tain higher velocities than are comprised in the present
working of locomotive engines.

   III. That it would not in the majority of instances produce

economy in the original construction of railways, and in many
would most materially augment their cost.

   IV. That on some short railways where the traffic is

large, admitting of trains of moderate weight, but requiring
high velocities and frequent departures, and where the face of
the country is such as to preclude the use of gradients suitable
for locomotive engines, the atmospheric system would prove

the most eligible.
    V. That on short lines of railway, say four or five miles in

length, in the vicinity of large towns, where frequent and rapid
communication is required between the termini alone, the

atmospheric system might be advantageously applied.

   VI. That on short lines, such as the Blackwall Railway,

where the traflic is chiefly derived from intermediate points,
requiring frequent stoppages between the termini, the atmo
spheric system is inapplicable, being much inferior to the plan
of disconnecting the carriages from a rope for the accommodation
of the intermediate traffic.

   VII. That on long lines of railway the requisites of a large

traffic cannot be attained by so inflexible a system as the
atmospheric, in which the eflicient operation of the whole

depends so completely upon the perfect performance .of each
individual section of the machinery.

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  329

   Appended to Mr. Stephenson's Report was a statement by
Mr. G. P. Bidder regarding the Blackwall Railway. This
line was at that time worked by stationary engines and
ropes, but the advocates of the atmospheric system had
urged its adoption in preference.

    Mr. Bidder, after describing the peculiar circumstances
of the traffic on the line, showed satisfactorily that the atmo
spheric system could not be applied to it with advantage,
chiefly from the necessity for frequent stoppages at
intermediate stations, which could not be effected, or at

least, if effected, would entail such delays as would be

extremely inconvenient to the public, and prejudicial to
the interests of the line.

    Since 1849, the Blackwall Railway, having been ex
tended and connected with other lines, has been worked

by locomotive power.

   Mr. Stephenson's Report was published and widely
circulated; but though it decided the Chester and Holy

head directors not to adopt the atmospheric system on

their line, it does not seem to have checked its advance
in public estimation; for the features of the scheme

were so attractive and popular as to secure for it the
evident favour, not only of railway authorities and the
public generally, but also of a number of professional
engineers. To the latter class the subject naturally
proved a very interesting one; for at three several times,
in the years 1844 and 1845, it was brought promi

nently forward and discussed at great length at meet
ings of the Institution of Civil Engineers, almost all the
principal members of the profession taking part in
the arguments either on one side or the other; and at

330           LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.         [C1r. XIV.

a later period, when it was in action on the Croydon

line, the same Institution promoted the appointment of
a scientific committee to make experiments upon it---

a design which, had it not been frustrated by the sudden
and premature abandonment of the system on that line,
would undoubtedly have been of the greatest interest and
importance in a scientific point of view.

   Almost immediately after the date of Mr. Stephenson's

Report, the subject was brought forward in Parliament, by
a bill promoted by the Croydon Railway Company for an
extension of their line to Epsom, which it was proposed to
work on the atmospheric plan. On the committal of this
bill a long investigation into the merits of the system took

place, extending from the 15th to the 21st of May, and

embracing all that could be said for or against the plan.

Mr. Cubitt, the engineer of the line, explained his reasons

for adopting  it,in which he was supported by Mr. Sa

muda, Mr. Gibbons of the Dalkey line, and Mr. K. Brunel.;
                                       it,

                                             I.
Mr. Stephenson gave evidence against stating and ex
plaining the arguments used in his report to the Chester

and Holyhead Railway. The Committee, however, appear

to have been satisfied of the practicability of the plan, as
they passed the bill and when had gone through the
                                   it

other legal stages, steps were immediately taken to put the
                                             '
works into execution.

   In the next year, 1845, the subject attracted still morea it
prominently the public attention. This,. will be recol
lected, was about the time of the well-known railway

mania, when speculation was excited to degree unheard
of before, and new lines were promoted in vast numbers

from all corners of the empire. The atmospheric
system, by promising to cheapen the construction of new

1844--48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  331

lines, and to facilitate their formation, was too enticing to
be overlooked; and consequently, among the multitudes
of new lines introduced into Parliament at the commence

ment of the session of 1845, were many in which this
system of propulsion was proposed to be adopted, and
some of which indeed, by their inapplicability to locomo
tive traction, depended for their very existence on the
feasibility of the plan.

   Independently of the Epsom line, already sanctioned
and in progress of constr"uction,many others, of much public
importance, were now proposed to be worked on this
system--as, for example, one from Newcastle to Berwick ;
continuations of the Epsom line directly to Portsmouth,
of the Croydon line to Maidstone, Tunbridge, and Ash
ford, and of the Dalkey line to Bray, and a direct line from
London to Northampton.

   To have left the full discussion of the atmospheric
principle to be undertaken in each separate case would, it
was thought, lead to much difficulty and delay; and
therefore, on the motion of Lord Howick (afterwards Earl
Grey), a Committee of the House of Commons was
appointed to investigate, once for all, the merits of the
plan, and to report to the House thereon.

   The Committee consisted of fifteen members, the Hon.

Bingham Baring in the chair. They were appointed March
14, 1845, examined witnesses from April 1 to April 11,

and made their Report on April 22; an instance of

very remarkable expedition, showing the urgency they

attached to the subject.
    The first witness examined was Mr.. Samuda, one of

the patentees, who explained at great length the nature
and advantages of the principle; stated what was being

332  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XIV.

done to put it into operation on various lines; and

answered objections that had been made against it.
   Mr. Barry Gibbons, the engineer, and Mr. Bergin, the

manager, of the Kingstown and Dalkey line, explained the
working of the system there, and testified to its success.

   Mr. Brunel supported the plan, and described the
extensive use he was making of it on the South Devon
line. Mr. (afterwards Sir) William Cubitt followed on
the same side, and described his application of the at
mospheric system to the Croydon and Epsom lines. The
principle was also supported by Mr. Vignoles and Mr.
Field, eminent civil and mechanical engineers, and by the
Rev. Dr. Robinson of Armagh.

    On the other hand, Mr. Robert Stephenson, Mr. Bidder,
Mr. Nicholson, and Mr. Locke testified against the system.

    The advantages of atmospheric propulsion, and the argu
ments in its favour, which have been already stated, were
urged upon the Committee by the first set of witnesses,
while the objections to it were principally those given in
Mr. Stephenson's report, to which, however, a few minor
ones were added--as the loss of power by the friction
of the air in the tube; the heating of the air in the
pump during compression; the impossibility of making
level crossings, or of having junctions with branch lines
except at the .principal stations; the great cost of

running only few trains, as at night, and so on.
    The Committee, after due deliberation and discussion

among themselves, adopted a Report which is of sufficient

importance to warrant its insertion here. It runs as

follows, omitting some passages of minor interest :

   The Select Committee appointed to inquire into the merits of
the atmospheric system of railway have examined the matters

to them referred, and have agreed to the following Report.

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  333

   Your Committee have given their best attention to this in

teresting subject. Adverting to the great number of Railway
Bills now in progress, they consider that one of the most practical

results of this inquiry would be lost- if their Report were delayed

until after these bills had passed through Committee, and a
decision had already been made on their comparative merits.

    Your Committee have endeavoured therefore to present to

the House, with as little delay as is consistent with the due dis

charge of their duty, the evidence which they have taken, and
the opinions to which they have come, and they trust that their

labour may not prove altogether useless to the Committees that

have to decide on the particular railway schemes now pending.
    The House are aware that a railway on the atmospheric

principle is already in operation between Kingstown and Dalkey,
in Ireland.

   The first object of your Committee was to make a full inquiry
into the result of this experiment. From Mr. Gibbons, Mr.
Bergin, and Mr. Vignoles, gentlemen officially connected with
the Kingstown and Dublin, and Kingstown and Dalkey Railways,
they received the fullest and frankest evidence on all the

points connected with their management.
   From this evidence, and from that of Mr. Samuda, it appears

that the Dalkey line has been open for nineteen months, that
it has worked with regularity and safety throughout all the
vicissitudes of temperature, and that the few interruptions which

have occurred have arisen rather from the inexperience of the

attendants than from any material defect of the system.

    Your Committee find, moreover, that high velocities have
been obtained with proportional loads on an incline averaging
1 in 115, within a course in which the power is applied only
during one mile and an eighth.

    These results have been displayed under circumstances which
afford no fair criterion of what may be expected elsewhere; for
in addition to the curves on the line, which would have been

considered objectionable if not impracticable for locomotive

engines, there are alleged to exist defects in the machinery and
apparatus, occasioned partly by the difficulties of the situation,

partly by mistakes inseparable from a first attempt, which very
seriously detract from the efliciency of the power employed, for

334  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XIV.

 the remedy of which provision has been made in the experiments
 now in progress.

     These are important facts. They establish the mechanical
 efficiency of the atmospheric power to convey with regularity,
 speed, and security, the traflic upon one section of pipe between
 two termini; and your Committee have since been satisfied, by
 the evidence of Messrs. Brunel, Cubitt, and Vignoles, that there
 is no mechanical difficulty which will oppose the working of the
 same system upon a line of any length. They are further con
 firmed in this opinion by the conduct of the Dalkey and Kings
 town directors, who have at this moment before Parliament a

proposition to extend their atmospheric line to Bray.

   In addition to the witnesses already mentioned, your Com

 mittee have had the advantage of hearing the objections urged
by Messrs. Nicholson, Stephenson, and Locke against the adop
tion of the atmospheric principle, and the grounds of their
preference for the locomotive now in use.

    Your Committee must refer the House to the valuable evi

dence given by these gentlemen.

   It will be seen that great difference of opinion exists between

them and the other witnesses to whom your Committee have
before referred, both in their estimation of what has already
been effected, and in their calculations of future improvement.

    But without entering upon all the controverted points, your
Committee have no hesitation in stating that a single atmospheric
line is superior to a double locomotive line in both regularity
and safety, inasmuch as it makes collisions impossible, except
at crossing places, and excludes all the danger and irregularity
arising from casualties to engines or their tenders.

   Your Committee desire also to bring to the attention of the
House a peculiarity of the atmospheric system, which has been
adduced by the objectors to prove how unsuited it must be
profitably to carry on a small and irregular traffic; namely, that
the greatest proportion of the expenses of haulage on the at

mospheric principle are constant, and cannot be materially
reduced, however small the amount of traffic may be. This is,
no doubt, a serious objection to the economy of the atmospheric
system under the circumstances above alluded to. But on the
other hand, as the expenses do not increase in proportion to the
frequency of the trains, it is to the interest of companies

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  335

adopting the atmospheric system to increase the amount of
their trafiie by running frequent light trains at low rates of fare,

by which the convenience of the public must be greatly promoted.

    Upon an atmospheric railway the moving power is most
economically applied by dividing the weight to be carried into
a considerable number of light trains. By locomotive engines,

on the contrary, the power is most conveniently applied by con
centrating the traffic in a smaller number of heavier trains.
The rate of speed at which trains of moderate weight can be

conveyed on an atmospheric line makes comparatively little
difference in the cost of conveyance, while the cost of moving

trains by locomotive engines increases rapidly with the speed.
   Now when it is considered that we surrender to great mono

polies the regulation of all the arteries of communication
throughout the kingdom, that it depends in a great measure

upon their view of their interest when we shall travel, at what
speed we shall travel, and what we shall pay, it becomes a ma
terial consideration, in balancing the advantages ensured to the

public by rival systems, to estimate not so much what they
respectively can do, but what, in the pursuit of their own emo
lument, they will do.

    The main objections of the opponents of the atmospheric sys
tem seem to rest--first, on the supposed increase of expense of the
atmospheric apparatus over and above the saving made in the
 construction of the road; secondly, on the inconvenience and
irregularity attending upon a single line. With reference to
the last point, your Committee felt it their duty to direct their
 first attention to the question of security, and they have
 already stated that there is more security in a single atmospheric
 line than a double locomotive. They may further observe that
 they find the majority of the engineers who have been examined
 are decidedly of opinion that any ordinary traflic might be carried

 on with regularity and convenience by a single atmospheric line.
    With respect to expense, and to some other contested points,

 your Committee do not feel themselves competent to report a

 decided opinion. It would scarcely be possible at the present

 time to institute a fair comparison of a system which has had

 fifteen years of growth and developement, with another which is

 as yet in its infancy. That comparison would, after all, be very
 uncertain; it must depend much on details of which we are

336         LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                [C11 XIV.

ignorant, much on scientific knowledge which we` do not

possess. There are, however, questions of practical importance,
having reference to the present state of the Railway Bills before

the House, to which your Committee consider themselves bound

to advert.

There is a doubt, raised in the Reports of the Board of Trade,

whether the atmospheric system has been sufficiently tested to

justify the preference of a line which can only be worked on

the atmospheric system, or which presents gradients less favour

Ifable than a competing line for the use of the locomotive engine.

       it were practicable to suspend all railway legislation until

the result of the Devon and Cornwall, and of the Epsom and
Croydon atmospheric lines were known, it would be perhaps

the most cautious and prudent course to wait that result; but

such a course, independent of all considerations of expediency,
is evidently impracticable. Your Committee venture therefore

to express their opinion to the House, that in deciding between

competing lines of railway, those which have been set out to

suit the atmospheric principle ought not to be considered as

open to valid objections merely on account of their having

gradients too severe for the locomotive; nor should they be

tested, in comparison with other lines, solely by the degree of

their suitableness to the use of the locomotive.

   No doubt, in matters like these, experience alone can decide
the ultimate result; but your Committee think that there is

ample evidence which would justify the adoption of an atmo

spheric line at the present time. All the witnesses they have

examined concur in its mechanical success.

  IMr. Bidder says: ` consider the mechanical problem as

solved, whether the atmospheric could be made an efficient

Itractive agent. There can be no question about that, and the
apparatus Worked, as far as observed  it,very well. The only

question in my mind was as to the commercial application ofa

it.' Mr. Stephenson admits that under certain circumstances of

gradients (1,315), and under certain circumstances of traffic,

without reference to gradients (1,204), the atmospheric system

would be preferable.

While your Committee have thus expressed strong opinion

in favour of the general merits of the atmospheric principle,

they feel that experience can alone determine under what cir

184448.]       THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.            337

cumstances of traflic, or of country, the preference to either
system should be given.

    This decision, so favourable to the atmospheric system,
cannot be wondered at. The preponderance of evidence,
even of engineers, was undoubtedly in its favour; and,

however we may now be convinced of the validity of the

               it,
                        it,
                          it
objections urged against and of the superior judgement

of the witnesses who opposed  was not to be expected

that Committee so composed should be in position
       a                                a
attach such weight to these objections as to invalidate the
           I.                              it
concurrent and positive testimony adduced on the other
                                                      a
side.                                                     to

Supported, therefore, by so powerful and public re

commendation, we should be prepared to expect that the
atmospheric system would soon have been extensively
introduced, at least on new lines--if, indeed, did not

supersede the established plans of locomotion on old ones;
for as has been already stated, the inducement to lay down

new lines with gradients and works adapted for the plan

must have been very strong.
   But this official recognition of the merits of the system

forms the culminating point of its history; for, strange to
say, from this event we have only to trace its continual

decadence, and, within but few years afterwards, to
               z
chronicle its abandonment altogether.a
   The examination of the atmospheric bills in Parliament,

in the following session of 1845, proceeded in due
course; but the labours of Lord Howick's Committee do

not seem to have had the effect intended; for the oppo
nents of the atmospheric system--who, though small in
numbers, were very energetic and determined----did not

VOL.

338 `  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XIV.

choose to yield to their decision, and the contest had to
be renewed in every Committee on every bill.

    One of the most important of these contests was that

for the line from Newcastle-upon-Tyne to Berwick, in

which a single atmospheric line was opposed to the

double locomotive railway projected by George Stephen
son and his son. The battle of these two rival lines was

fought very obstinately and at great length before the

Committee of the House of Commons; and in July 1845

they reported that, although they did not feel called upon
to express an opinion on the relative merits of the atmo
spheric and the locomotive systems, or on their compara
tive applicability to railways in general, still as the
evidence negatived the sufiiciency of a single line to con

vey the required trafiic, they preferred the locomotive

double line, which was eventually adopted.

   The Bill for the Epsom and Portsmouth line passed

on the atmospheric principle, but was never carried into
execution: all the other Bills were either lost or aban
doned.

   It now only remains to mention the several oases where

the atmospheric system has been applied in actual prac
tice; there are five in number.

   The first of them, the experimental half mile on the

small railway at Wormwood Scrubs, may be dismissed

very briefly. It was, as has been stated, set to work in
June 1840. It was not intended for traffic, as the line

was not commercially used at that time; but it was worked
experimentally. During the first year trips were run re
gularly twice a week, to which the public were admitted

free ; and subsequently experiments were made at various

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.     339

intervals during 1% or 2 years more; after which the
apparatus was removed.

   Next in order comes the Kingstown and Dalkey line, of

which a description has already been given. It was first

tried in August 1843, and commenced working regularly

towards the end of September; but in consequence of some
legal difficulties it was not opened for public traffic till
some months later. During the interval, however, it was

at work, carrying passengers without charge; and any

persons who had an introduction, or any special claim,

were allowed to make experiments in any manner they

desired, without expense to them: the public travelling at

the same time for amusement in very large numbers. In

March 1844, it began running for regular commercial

traffic, and worked for several years, conveying great

numbers of passengers to and fro, with perfect safety and

considerable speed. On occasions of any peculiar attrac

tion, the double journey was performed every ten minutes,

from 7 A.M. to 11 P.M.              I

About 1855 the Dalkey, Dublin, and Kingstown property

was leased to the Dublin, Wicklow, and Wexford Railway

Company. The portion between Kingstown and Dalkey
was included, and was extended to Bray, where it joined
the direct Dublin and Wicklow line; and as it would

have been obviously inconvenient to have an isolated

portion, of one mile and a half in length, of atmospheric
propulsion in the middle of a system worked by loco
motives, the tube was taken up, and the line enlarged,
and made a homogeneous part of the extended system.

   The third application of the atmospheric principle was
upon the London and Croydon Railway. Reference has
been made to the Act obtained in 1844 for an extension

                        z2

340            LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.         [C11 XIV

of that line from Croydon to Epsom, which the Company

proposed to work on the atmospheric system. But as the

line from Croydon to London was becoming much occu

pied by the Brighton and the South Eastern Companies,
both of which ran over its whole length, it was considered

expedient to lay down an additional or third line of rails

alongside the other two, over this distance, so as to give

an independent accommodation to the Croydon and Epsom
traffic. This was considered a favourable portion on

which to test the invention; and as this line could be

sooner constructed than the new one beyond Croydon,

great efforts were made to have the atmospheric ap

paratus at work upon it as early as possible: and it was
opened for a distance of five miles, from Forest Hill to
Croydon, in the latter part of 1845. From London to
Forest Hill the atmospheric apparatus was not completed,

the trains being worked by locomotives, and run into a

siding for attachment to the piston carriage of the atmo

spheric tube.

   The tube, which was 15 inches internal diameter, was

divided into two lengths_one of 3 miles from Forest Hill

to Norwood, and the other of 2 miles from thence to
Croydon--there being steam engines of 100 nominal

horse-power, with air pumps, placed at each of the three

stations. In one place the railway crossed over the

Brighton main line by a viaduct, with gradients on each
side of 1 in 50.

   For a short time after the apparatus was set to work
it was employed in running empty trains at certain in

tervals during the day, to give the public an opportunity

of seeing the new mode of conveyance. It is stated that

trains of nineteen  carriages were  conveyed  at  30  to  35
                 \

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.    341

miles an hour, or even at greater speed under favourable
circumstances; but the vacuum employed was high, being
24 to 26 inches, and the power consumed in pumping
was large.* With lighter trains velocities of 60 miles
an hour were attained.

    On January 19, 1846, it commenced working for
regular traffic; but, though generally successful, frequent
interruptions took place from various accidents; prin
cipally through defects in the stationary engines, which
appeared not to be well adapted to the purpose they had

to serve.

   In May the number of trains was increased from thirty

two to thirty-nine per diem, and the regularity was
generally improved, though some difficulty still occurred
in getting over the steep incline.

    The summer discovered an unexpected weakness, for
the June sun, giving a temperature of 131° over the pipe,

acted so powerfully upon the waxy sealing composition
of the valve, that it was difficult to keep it tight against
the pressure of the atmosphere ; and on this, as on other
occasions, the aid of the locomotive had to be called in.

The valve itself was also defective, and a new one had to

be inserted, as well as a new sealing material to be com

pounded, which proved successful, and was suitable to
resist the effect of both heat and cold. The apparatus
was set to work again in July, and a good regularity

attained. A record of three trips on the 21st of that
monthj" shows satisfactory results. A train of 50 tons

   ` These particulars were given to  tion in the tunnels at Liverpool,
                                      which, however, he did not recom
the author by Mr. Edward Woods,
who examined and reported on the      mend.
apparatus with a view to its adop-
                                        1- Railway Chronicle, 1846, P- 719

342  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XIV.

attained a maximum speed of 30 miles an hour, and one
of 22 tons, 64% miles, the vacuum in all cases being
19 inches.

   In this year the amalgamation of the Croydon Railway

with the London and Brighton line took place. The
directors of the former, in giving up their charge, August
26th, remarked that, ` though the atmospheric system had
not been free from those difficulties which usually attend
the introduction of all new inventions, and though the
working expenses had necessarily been very great, still

it was progressing satisfactorily.' At the first meeting of

the amalgamated companies on August 19, the directors
also stated that `the working progressed satisfactorily,
and attained daily a greater degree of regularity, and

that there was every reason they should have confidence
in it.' Considering, however, the thing still as under

experiment, they resolved, on the recommendation of
Mr. Cubitt, their engineer, to open the Croydon and
Epsom extension, in the first instance, as a locomotive
line, until the merits or defects of the new system should

have been more thoroughly tried.
   In November the manager of the line was directed to

make out a statement of the cost of working the system,
which he did, much in its disfavour; but his statement

was called in question by Mr. Samuda, who con
tended that the facts did not warrant this disparaging

judgment.

   During the winter the number of trains was thirty-six
daily. In January 1847, a further portion of the at
mospheric tube was finished towards London, and on the
14th of that month a trial trip was made, preparatory to
the opening. From New Cross to Forest Hill the line

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  343

 ascended for nearly the whole distance an incline of 1 in

 100, and the train ran up this and on to Croydon in a

 satisfactory manner.

    In February some stoppages took place in consequence

of snow and frost, and the locomotive had again to be
resorted to; and at a meeting on the 19th of the same

month, the second after the amalgamation, the directors

reported that, with a view to determine the amount of

expenditure, and at the same time to test practically the
value of the system, they had entered into an arrange
ment with Mr. Samuda for working the atmospheric
traction upon a contract for a fixed sum and during a
certain period. Some of the shareholders at this meeting
strongly advocated the abandonment of the plan; to
which it was answered that it had been proved both
practicable and efficient, but that the directors would not
consent to continue it longer than they thought right.

   From this time it seems to have worked well; and a

committee of scientific men was appointed by the Insti
tution of Civil Engineers to make experiments on it with

a view to determine its powers; when an event occurred
which we may best describe by an extract from one of
the railway journals of the period, dated May 8, 1847.

    Engineering London was suddenly thrown into unusual ex
citement on Tuesday last by the announcement that the Croydon
Atmospheric Pipes were pulled up and the plan abandoned.

   On making inquiry we found that it had been decided to
abandon the system, that the atmospheric was not in operation,

that locomotives were doing the work, and that the atmospheric
was doomed.

   We confess our surprise at this sudden resolve. The same
resolve might have been taken any time these twelve months
with more show of reason than appears now on the face of the
question. Never before was the atmospheric doing so well,

344  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Cm XIV.

going so regularly, working so economically. The directors
have for a couple of months been working a contract with Mr.
Samuda, which contract gives them atmospheric power at less
cost than the locomotive; and Mr. Samuda is said to have been
well pleased with his contract and the public service well per
formed.

    We are the more sorry for this resolution, because, although
we have from the beginning been regarded by the advocates of
the atmospheric system as its inveterate enemies, we have really
opposed only what appeared to us the errors of the system; and
while opposing its erroneous application, we have earnestly
supported its having a fair trial. That trial we thought it
would have had on the Croydon, and we are disappointed at this
sudden resolution of the Board, which will, we think, give the
advocates of the system something to complain of, and deprive
all parties of the advantage of an unbiassed decision.

    The explanation given by the directors is in their

report of August 10, where they say: `From the insuffi

ciency of power by atmospheric traction to work the

Epsom in addition to the Croydon trafiic, your directors,
by the advice of their consulting engineer, have sub

stituted locomotive power.' This `insufficiency' arose

from the vacuum tube being too small. The temptation

to save as much as possible in the first cost of the

 apparatus, of which the tube formed such a large item, led

 to its being fixed at dimensions which, though probably
 large enough for the traffic existing at the time it was
 designed, did not allow for much increase. Hence, when
larger loads had to be conveyed, it became necessary

 to work the vacuum higher, which, as had long before

 been predicted by Mr. Stephenson, brought the elements

 of leakage and friction into most disadvantageous opera
 tion. Mr. Samuda himself always stated the most eligible

 vacuum to be 15 or 16 inches, but with the size of tube

                                                                                                                    II

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  345

on the Croydon line this vacuum had to be much ex

ceeded when the loads became heavy.

   It is possible that this difficulty might have been over

come by dividing the loads, and running trains at more
frequent intervals: but there was another motive which
probably acted more strongly with the directors than the
`insufficiency of power.' When the atmospheric system
was originally adopted by the Croydon Company, their
new or third line was to be an isolated one, doing the

Croydon trafiic only; but the case was materially altered
when this became a trunk line for the Epsom trafiic, and

for probable filture extensions.
    Moreover, there had arisen a new management, who

had not taken any part in the anterior proceedings. The
Croydon Company had sold themselves and their under

taking to a more powerful body, owning a large and
important group of lines all worked by locomotive power,
under one management and with one stock, except this
small piece of atmospheric line, which was so isolated as
to be obliged to be connected with locomotive lines at

                                                           '

each end.

    No doubt, therefore, the Brighton directors were only
too glad of any reasonable excuse that might offer for
throwing the thing overboard altogether. This excuse
came in the sudden pressure of the Epsom race week;
and in spite of the improved behaviour of the apparatus,
in spite of the beneficial contract with Mr. Samuda, and
in spite of the absurdity of incurring all the cost of the
experiment without gaining any intelligible result there
from, the atmospheric system was forthwith suddenly con
demned ; the pipes were tal.<en up and sold for old iron;
the engine houses were pulled down and carted away as

346  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XIV.

old bricks; and thus ended the trial of the atmospheric

system on the Croydon Railway.
   The next application to be recorded was on the South

Devon Railway, a line running between Exeter and
Plymouth. The Act incorporating the Company was

passed in July 1844; and immediately afterwards a pro

posal was made by the promoters of the atmospheric
system to apply it on that railway. The question was
referred to Mr. Brunel, the engineer, who from his ex
amination of its working on the Wormwood Scrubs and

the Kingstown lines, came to such a favourable judgment
upon it as induced him to recommend it for the line in
question, which, having in some parts very difiicult gra
dients and curves, offered a good opportunity for the
display of its advantages. His view was confirmed by a
committee of the directors, who had been deputed also to
examine the working of the system; and it was accord
ingly resolved to apply it upon the whole line. The
railway was laid out expressly for the system, having a
single line only, with rails weighing 50 lbs. to the yard,
and with bridges and viaducts lighter than those on a
locomotive line, and otherwise different in construc

tion.

   It was decided to commence the working on the portion
of the line between Exeter and Newton--twenty miles

with easy gradients. The pipe over this part was 15
inches diameter, and was in six divisions, with a pumping
engine at each station. On the steeper and more difiicult
parts of the line, between Newton and Plymouth, having
gradients of 1 in 50 and 1 in 42, it was proposed to have
larger pipes, with an expanding piston. The tubes on
this line were placed below the level of the rails, to facili

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  347

tate the formation of level crossings ; and the piston was
made to lift up when required.

   From the desire to profit as much as possible by the ex

perience acquired on the Croydon Railway, and from other
causes, the manufacture of the atmospheric apparatus
progressed very slowly; and in the beginning of 1846, a
portion of the line being otherwise ready, the engineer

decided not to delay the opening any-longer, but to
commence the passenger trafiic with locomotives, which
was done from Exeter to Teignmouth on May 30,

1846.

   In the beginning of 1847 the stationary engines were
erected, but it was April before any length of the atmo

spheric system was completed, the first trip being satisfac
torily made from Exeter to Dawlish, 12% miles, on the
24th of that month.

   In August 1847 it was ready as far as Teignmouth,
15}; miles, and experimental trips were run over it
with considerable speed, ease, and precision. With a

30 ton train a speed of 67 miles an hour was obtained;

with 50 tons, 60 miles ; with 100 tons, 37 miles. In

September the general traffic was worked by it over this
distance with apparent satisfaction to the public. Towards
the end of the year it was finished to Newton, and after
several successful experimental trials it was publicly
opened January 10, dispensing with the locomotives, and
running with speed and regularity.

    The apparatus, however, appeared liable to some sources
of trouble, for at the general meeting in February 1848
Mr. Brunel reported that, notwithstanding numerous diffi
culties, he thought he was in a fair way of shortly over
coming the mechanical defects, and of bringing the whole

348  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [CIL XIV.

into regular and efiicient practical working, so as to be
enabled to test its economy, which its incomplete state

had not till then allowed him to do. At this same meeting

also, the directors announced that, although the atmo
spheric works were in progress from Newton to Totness,
a distance of nine miles, comprising difficult ground and
steep inclines, they had decided to delay extending the
system beyond the latter place (excepting only for assistant
power on certain-i inclines) until experience should have
afforded unquestionable data upon which to estimate its

advantages, and should have confirmed the favourable
opinion which the directors continued to entertain of its

practical efficiency. In the interim it became necessary

to strengthen the works, so as to fit them for locomotive
traffic ; and this being done, the line was gradually finished
from Newton towards Plymouth, and was opened, with
locomotive power, to the immediate vicinity of the latter
place in May 1848.
~ By this time it was found that the cost of working the

atmospheric system had been much greater than the
directors had reason to anticipate, and, moreover, that
serious defects were beginning to manifest themselves in

the mechanism of the longitudinal valve, the leather of
which was undergoing an unexpected and rapid destruc
tion. These serious considerations led the Board, in July,
to refer the investigation of the whole subject to the
special consideration of a committee, who for many weeks
devoted their attention to in constant communication

with the engineer. The result of their labours caused the
directors, at general Board meeting held August 28,
1848, to pass the following resolution :--
     a
                           it,

     I

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  849

   That the very heavy expenses incurred in working on the
atmospheric principle between Exeter and Newton, arising in
part from the imperfect state and rapid decay of the longitudinal
valve, and in part from other causes affecting the system,

render it necessary to suspend the employment of it, at the
charge of the Company, until the patentees and Mr. Samuda
shall have adopted some means, to the satisfaction of the directors,

for relieving the Company from the loss consequent upon work

ing under such disadvantages.

   It was shown, however, by a document subsequently

circulated by the Board, that the defect of the longitu
dinal valve was not the only difficulty of importanceito be
overcome. Many others were experienced which weighed

greatly on the question of continuing the system :--

    1. The necessity for dividing the passenger trams, and
reducing the weight of the goods trains, to avoid the
chance of all unusually heavy loads.

    2. The loss of engine power throughout the line,
whenever delays arose in the arrival of the trains; it
being necessary, in the absence of any telegraphic com
munication, to keep up the vacuum, at enormous cost,
until it was required to be used.

    3. The other difficulties. of working in immediate
connection with a main line of near 200 miles, worked
upon another system.

   4. The probability, if not (under the circumstances of

the Company) the certainty, that the atmospheric system
could not be adopted on the whole line to Plymouth.

   These difficulties, added to the cost of working, and the
defective state of the valve, were found so formidable,
that the continuance of the atmospheric mode of propul
sion, upon an isolated length of twenty miles, connected

350           LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [GIL XIV.

at each end with lines worked on a different system, be

came all but impracticable.

   In accordance with their resolution, the directors stated,

in their report to the general meeting on August 29, that
` Without pronouncing any judgement as to the ultimate
success of the atmospheric system, and whilst they are

prepared to afford to the patentees and other parties
interested in it the use of their machinery for continuing
their own experiments, they have agreed with Mr. Brunel

that it is expedient for them to suspend the use of the

atmospheric system until the same shall be made efiicient

at the expense of the patentees.'
   The operation of the system was accordingly brought

to a close on September 9, 1848, and the line thence

forward was worked throughout by locomotives only.
   But by far the most complete trial of the atmospheric

system has been made in France; and as it does not
appear that any account of this experiment has been
published, the circumstances may be stated in some

detail."*     that the system                      .
              interest in that
  It appears                           had at an early period
                                       country, and a French
excited some

improvement, of much ingenuity, was proposed in its

machinery. This was the invention of M. Hallette, a

manufacturing engineer of Arras. It was a new kind of

longitudinal valve for the vacuum main, consisting of two
small inflated elastic tubes, fixed in grooves on each side

of the longitudinal opening on the top of the pipe, and

between which the rod attached to the piston should

   * For the information contained     obligations to M. Eugene Flachat,
in this notice we have to express our  the engineer of the line.

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  351

slide, the tubes closing again behind it by their own
elasticity as it passed along. M. Hallette laid down, at
his own expense, an experimental tube, which exhibited
his invention in action, and which is said to have worked

well; but the ingenious inventor died in 1846, and his

project never proceeded farther.
    When the Kingstown and Dalkey line was first set to

work, the French Government sent M. Mallet, one of

the divisional inspectors of the Ponts et Chaussées, to
examine its working. His report, which has been trans
lated and published in England, is dated January 10,
1844: his favourable account of the system appears to
have determined the Government to try it in France, and
a sum of 1,800,000 francs was accordingly voted for the
cost of the necessary apparatus.

    The railway on which it was decided to make the trial
was that from Paris to St. Germain. This line is al

together about 12% miles long. At the forest of Vesinet,

about 11 miles from Paris, it crosses the Seine, and from

thence ascends by a rapid acclivity nearly 170 feet to the

plateau on which the town of St. Germain stands. It

was on this last 1% mile that the atmospheric system was
applied. The length over which the tube extended was

2,230 metres. For the first 390 metres the line was

nearly level; the following 840 metres consisted of 'a
 series of inclines, beginning with 1 in 200, and gradually
increasing to 1 in 30; and the last 1,000 metres was
 uniformly 1 in 28%. On this steep part there was also
 a curve of 397 metres radius and 400 metres long;
 two curves on the lower portions were 1,000 metres

 radius.

    The line was double, but the tube was only placed on

352  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [C11 XIV'.

 the ascending line, the trains running down the other line
 by their own gravity.

     The tube was 63 centimetres (about 241.2 inches)
 internal diameter, calculated for a maximum load of

 70 tons. It was of cast iron 2 centimetres thick,

 strengthened by ribs, and having large feet cast on the
lower part to fasten it down. The rails were fixed on

longitudinal sleepers, and the tube rested upon the cross
transoms which retained the longitudinal timbers in gauge.
The longitudinal valve and the other parts of the appa
ratus were similar to those used in England.

    There were two high pressure exhausting engines of
 228 horse-power each, which were calculated to cause the
ascent of the trains in five or six minutes.

    The Company at first proposed to get the apparatus
made in France, but were obliged ultimately to have the
pipes cast in England. They were put in hand in the
beginning of 1846, and the works of the line were ready
in the autumn of that year; but by delays in the manu
facture of the propelling apparatus the line was not
opened for traffic till 1847.

    The money voted by government paid for the tube and
the engines; the remainder of the outlay, amounting to
about 3,200,000 francs, was borne by the Railway Com

pany.

   The traffic consisted of passenger trains every hour of
the day, for sixteen hours, giving sixteen trains per diem
in each direction.

   For about six years the average weight of the trains
was about 35 tons, and the service was performed with
great regularity; but after that time the trafiic began to
increase, the weight of the trains gradually augmenting to

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.                   353

50 or 60 tons, the consequence of which was the intro
duction of irregularities in the working. The causes of

these irregularities were well investigated. The principal

one was not chargeable to the system, and might easily

have been remedied-namely, the inadequacy of boiler
power in the stationary engines; but the loads soon began
to approximate closely to the maximum limit of power of
the apparatus, and as it was not always practicable to
determine beforehand the exact weight of the train, it

frequently happened that trains were sent up, on Sundaysif,
                             it
and fete days, of a weight touching closely upon this
limit-even although, on arriving at the foot of the steep
incline, the high vacuum of 70 to 72 centimetres (28
inches) was obtained in the tube. The natural result of
this close working was, that as occasionally happened,

the train was little heavier than was calculated, or
a                                                    if
                        a
any accidental increase to the resistance arose, the power

proved insufficient for the traction, and the train came to
   stand, or at least did not approach the terminus with

athe velocity necessary to shoot up to the platform after
the pressure had ceased to operate on the piston. The
exhaustion varied usually from 40 centimetres (15-5 inches)
to 72 centimetres, according to the weight of the train;
and singular coincidence was remarked on this line--
that the number of centimetres of exhaustion accurately
denoted the number of tons weight which that degree

of exhaustion would convey. The speed was slow upon
the steep incline, but the trip was performed regularly in

five or six minutes, as intended. Frost and snow were

found to have              prejudicial effect on the valve: the
           1.

                           a
                                               A
                                                  A
leather hardened, ice or snow insinuated itself into the

VOL.       '

354  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [OIL XIV-

interstices, and the result was increased leakage and

extra trouble to keep the machine in efficient action.

   After all, however, so long as the haulage power was not
overborne by the weight of the trains, the trafiic went on

-pretty well, and the system continued in tolerably suc

cessful use for nearly fourteen years_-namely, till 1860
    during the whole of which time there had never been a
single accident or suspension of the service.

   At this time it was found that serious repairs were

required to the permanent way, the timber sleepers being
decayed. The question then arose whether it might not

be preferable to do away with the atmospheric system
and to work the incline with locomotives like the rest of

the line; and the following reasons seem to have been

considered of sufficient weight to warrant this determina

tion being adopted:_

First, the tractive power was obviously becominglmore

andmore insufficient to work the constantly increasing

traffic. Attempts had been made to increase the number
of trains to three per hour during the heaviest pressure;
but this led to difiiculties at the stations, and it had

become necessary on special days to get help from loco

motive engines constructed for the purpose. Moreover, in

the last year of working, a new element had been

introduced, tending still farther to limit the useful power

of the apparatus. The carriages had at first been very
light, made especially for the purpose ; but it was found

desirable to assimilate them to the other stock, and so to

make them heavier, which of course, under the limit of

weight, diminished the accommodation afforded for pas

sengers by each train. And with  insufficient power,

particularly considered in reference to a still farther pro

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  855

 spective increase of traffic, there was no chance of any

 available remedy, if the plan was to be retained. The

 exhaustion had been carried to its utmost possible ex
 tent, and no alternative remained but to lay down a new
 tube of larger size and engines of larger power, which
 was clearly out of the question, from its enormous ex
pense and the dead loss of all the expenditure previously
incurred.

    In the second place, the working expenses had been

 found very heavy; and although an accurate comparison
could not then be made, it was believed that the incline

could be worked by locomotives for less expense. The
forcing up of the exhaustion, necessary to do the increased
work, had augmented disproportionately the consumption
of fuel; and as coals had latterly been very dear, the cost

of working had showed to great disadvantage.
    Then, thirdly, the improvements made in locomotives in

late years had removed all doubt as to the practicability
of applying them effectively on the steep incline, which
could not have been attempted, with much chance of
success, when the line was originally laid down.

    These arguments appear to have had sufiicient weight

to lead the directors to abandon the atmospheric
system of traction. The tube was accordingly taken

up; and the incline is now worked with powerful loco
motives constructed expressly for the purpose, and which
are said to be able to draw trains of 120 or 130 tons up
the incline at less cost than on the former plan.

   Such is the history of this remarkable scheme, which,
as regards the magnitude of its pretensions, and the interest

it excited, has no parallel in railway history. It is scarcely

                                                                AA2

856  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Cm XIV.

likely to be revived, and therefore it would be useless now
to reopen a discussion upon it. But it may not be out of
place, to add a few remarks on the results of the trials

made.

   We should naturally look to these trials for evidence on

three main points--namely, first, the mechanical effi
ciency of the system as a propelling power; secondly, its
economy; and thirdly, its general applicability to railway

traffic.

   With regard to the first head, we can scarcely avoid

the conclusion that the trials were, at least, sufficient to

establish it as an efiicient means of propulsion, considered
in a mechanical point of view.

   Mr. Stephenson, who was no mean judge in such
matters, always testified, with the candour and liberality

that distinguished his character, to its mechanical success,
and indeed never called its efficiency in question ; and Mr.
Bidder declared he considered the mechanical problem as

solved beyond doubt.
    On the Dalkey line, the system worked the traffic regu

larly for eleven years. The Croydon experiment was
attended with many vicissitudes, and formed in fact the
principal school for the testing and improvement of the
machinery on a large scale; but at the time the system
was abandoned the mechanical defects had been in a
 great measure overcome, and it was working more satis
factorily than it had ever done before; and it is evident
 that the causes for its discontinuance, on this line, arose
 more from general policy than from mechanical con

 siderations.
    The atmospheric system on the French line worked,

 while moderately loaded, with great certainty; it was

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.         357

only when it began to be taxed too near the maximum
limit of its capability that irregularities occurred; but as,
even under all circumstances, it worked for sixteen years
without a single accident or suspension of the service, it is

clear that no serious objection on mechanical grounds can

have appeared.*
    On the South Devon line the regularity, speed, and

safety were unquestioned. Great prominence was, indeed,
given to the defective state of the longitudinal valve, as a
reason for its discontinuance ; but had this been the only
reason, it is difficult to conceive that, under the skill of such

an engineer as Mr. Brunel, the same perseverance that had
overcome the difficulty on the Dalkey and French lines
would not have succeeded on this line also. We have
seen, however, that other reasons obtained for the
abandonment of the atmospheric system, and there is
little doubt that these had more weight in the decision

than any mechanical inefiiciency.
    Great credit is due to the inventors and original en

gineering promoters of the scheme for the perfection to
which it was brought. The original perception of the
practicability and advantages of a plan, which, to most
minds, would have seemed only a wild vision, was in
itself no common merit; and considering the entire

   * See Perdonnet, Chemins de             titre l'attention la plus sérieuse des
Fer, vol. ii. chap. xi. page 348, 2nd      ingénieurs.' This was in 1860, after
edit. where M. Flachat recommends          fourteen years' trial.
the use of the atmospheric pressure
for inclined planes. He says: `Le             Some English engineers also still
                                           retain the opinion that the atmo
chemin de fer atmosphérique de St.
Germain n'a jamais failli; jamais un       spheric system might be advanta
accident ne s'est produit; la sécurité     geously applied in the present day, in
                                           peculiar cases which offer diificulties
du service y est absolue, sa félicité est  to the use of the locomotive.

telle qu'i1 me semble mériter a ce

358          LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.         [OIL XIV.

novelty of the whole system and the absence of anything

like precedent, the mechanical ingenuity and practical

skill exhibited in designing and carrying out the details,
was such as to place the contrivers in the highest rank

of mechanical engineers, and to elicit the warmest com

mendation from even the opponents of the plan.

   On the question of the economy of the system, the

evidence is less satisfactory. In almost every instance the

working expenses were complained of as very high ; and

although the circumstances were in no case such as to

render the result absolutely conclusive, we may at any

rate consider the question of economy as standing where

the arguments of Mr. Stephenson left it; if not indeed

that his opinions were rather confirmed than disproved.

   Then, thirdly, as to the general applicability of the
system to railway traffic---it would seem that' the fact

of the entire abandonment of the system in every case
                              it
to certain extent, an argument pointing to negative
     a                                      a
                                             a
                 it
                       is                            it is,
Ifconclusion.              the invention had really promised to be

beneficial,                difficult to believe that would not have

been more fully persevered in; and we can only conceive

its abandonment to have been dictated by        strong

practical feeling that, even though further perseverance

might establish its mechanical and economical success,

would still be found, on other grounds, an ineligible

means of locomotion.

   It will be seen that Mr. Stephenson's principal ob

jections to the system (apart from the cost) referred to its
application to long lines. He urged that for any con

siderable length of railway,  double line with
                              a
                                                                     a

complete double apparatus was absolutely essential; and

that even with this, and though the economy were in

1844-48.]    THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.      359

its favour, yet on railways of large extent, there must

exist conditions which would militate against its certainty

of action, and which must disqualify it for being an ap

propriate means of railway traffic. Now it is quite clear
that none of the trials actually made were of a nature to
touch these objections. The longest line tried--the

South Devon--had none of the characteristics of traflic

on large trunk lines to which Mr. Stephenson's reason

ings applied, and therefore we must consider that his

arguments on this head remain in full force, notwith

standing anything that has been done.  -

The immediate cause of the abandonment of the

system, sooner or later, in every case where it has been

tried, appears to have lain in its infiexibility--its want

of elasticity-in its incapability of adapting itself to the

changeable requirements and circumstances of a variable

traffic-~in its very peculiar nature, so uncongenial to

the established habits of railway people--and in the great

difliculty of bringing it to work conveniently and har

moniously in conjunction with other systems of railway
Iftraction.
             we could conceive a line of railway isolated

from all others, and where the traffic should be perfectly

uniform in amount and regular in time, possibly, as

Mr. Stephenson admitted, the atmospheric system might

be there applicable with advantage; but such a line
would be an exceptional one; and certainly none of the
railways on which it has been tried have approximated

to these conditions.

An examination will show that, in every case, the

most urgent reasons for the abandonment of the plan
lay, either in the increase of traffic beyond what the

tube could work, or in its isolated condition between

360           LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.           [CIL XIV.

locomotive lines at each end, which rendered the break

of the system of haulage peculiarly disadvantageous, and

fraught with such inconveniences as the proprietors would

not submit to. On the French line the former of these

objections prevailed; on the Dalkey and South Devon

the latter; on the Croydon line both combined.

      The inflexible and unaccommodating nature of the

system was often and strongly insisted upon by Mr.

                                              it,
Stephenson as a most powerful objection to applying
indeed to every system of haulage by stationary power.

It had been prominent in the original discussions on

this subject in 1830, anda      was obvious that the atmo

                            it
spheric system was only renewal of the old proposition

in new form.
it
      The system aimed at too great change.   Itwas not
     a                          a                                                a
                                       a          it
mere improvement in things already existing -- was an

entire revolution;  a  total subversion of the established

mode of conducting the traffic, and substitution of an

entirely new plan: we cannot therefore wonder that

met with great opposition; nor could be expected
                                          it

that anything short of the most complete and trium

phant superiority could establish it. Railway people

had become attached to the locomotive from its extreme

convenience and the change to more rigid and limited
        ;

                                               a

                                                     it

                                                                              a
plan was certainly not likely to find favour. There may
be something in the national English independence of

character which led railway officials to prefer system
that they could manage and vary with full liberty, to
one in which they would all become, as were, mere
parts of one huge machine.

For railways, generally, the locomotive appears now

too well established to be liable to farther opposition

        1844-48.]      THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.  361

it      from any modification of stationary power. It is true that

     is,it and must ever be, subject to many disadvantages in
        herent in the travelling form of the machine; but, con
        sidering the great improvements which have been made inis

           of late years, and its modern success in cases where its

        application was long considered impossible--and taking
        into account its versatile adaptability to variations of
        trafiic; its admirable suitability to sudden emergency;
        and its wonderful convenience of management and con
        trol_-we think there can now be little dissent from the

        opinion so resolutely maintained by Mr. Stephenson, that
        the system of traction which rendered his father's name

        famous the only one well fitted for general use upon

        railways.

                                                                             W. P.

1          It may be useful to put on record the following list of
                                   apublished authorities made use of in this chapter :--

           Acta Eruditorum. Leipsic 1688.
          A New Method of conveying Letters and Goods with great Certainty and
        Rapidity by Air. By G. Medhurst, Inventor, Patentee, and Proprietor,
           Denmark Street, Soho. London 1810.
           Calculations and Remarks tending to prove the Practicability, Effects,
        and Advantages of Plan for the rapid Conveyance of Goods and Passengers
        upon an Iron Road, through a Tube of Thirty Feet in Area, by the Power
        and Velocity of Air. By G. Medhurst, Inventor and Patentee, Denmark
        Street, Soho. London 1812.
           On Facility of Intercourse. By John Vallance of Brighton. London

        1824.

          A New System of Inland Conveyance for Goods and Passengers, capable

        of being applied and extended throughout the Country, and of Conveying
        all kinds of Goods, Cattle, and Passengers, with the Velocity of Sixty Miles
        in an Hour, at an Expense that will not exceed the One-fourth Part of the
        Present Mode of Travelling, without the Aid of Horses or any Animal
        Power. By George Medhurst, Civil Engineer, Denmark Street, Soho.
        London 1827.

362              LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.           [CH. XIV.

  A Treatise on the Steam Engine, Historical, Practical, and Descriptive.
By John Farey, Engineer. London 1827.

   Report to the Directors of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway on the

Comparative Merits of Locomotive and Fixed Engines as a Moving Power.

By James Walker and J. U. Rastrick, Esq., Civil Engineers. Liverpool

1829.

   Observations on the Comparative Merits of Locomotive and Fixed En
gines, as applied to Railways: being a Reply to the Report of Mr. James
Walker to the Directors of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway, com
piled from the Reports of Mr. George Stephenson. With an Account of the
Competition of Locomotive Engines at Rainhill in October 1829, and of the
subsequent Experiments. By Robert Stephenson and Joseph Locke, Civil

Engineers. Liverpool 1830.                            -
   Cleg-g's Patent Atmospheric Railway. London 1839.

Clegg and Samuda's Atmospheric Railway. London 1840.

Irish Railways. The Atmospheric Railway. A Letter to the Rt. Hon.

Lord Viscount Morpeth. By James Pim, jun., Treasurer of the Dublin and

Kingstown Railway Company. London 1841.

  The Atmospheric Railway. A Letter to the Rt. Hon. the Earl of Ripon,
President of the Board of Trade, &c. &c. By James Pim, M.R.I.A.
Treasurer of the Dublin and Kingstown Railway Company. With Plates.

London 1841.

  A Treatise on the Adaptation of Atmospheric Pressure to the Purposes
of Locomotion on Railways. With Two Plates. By J. D'A. Samuda,

London. (The date on the title-page is 1844, but the real date of the pam
phlet is 1841.)
Report of Lieut.-Colonel Sir Frederic Smith, R.E., and Professor Barlow

to the Rt. Hon. the Earl of Ripon, President of the Board of Trade, on the

Atmospheric Railway. Presented to both Houses of Parliament by com

mand of Her Majesty. London 1842.

Report on the Railway constructed from Kingstown to Dalkey in Ire

Jland, upon the Atmospheric System, and upon the Application of this

System to Railroads in general. By C. Mallet. Dated Paris, anuary 10,

1844.

   Report on the Atmospheric Railway System. By Robert Stephenson,

Esq. London 1844.
   Croydon and Epsom Railway, &c. &c. Minutes of the Evidence of the

Engineers examined before the Committee on the Croydon and Epsom
and South Westem and Epsom Railway Bills, with reference to the Work

ing of Railways upon the Atmospheric Principle. Ordered by the House of
Commons to be printed June 10, 1844.

   Report from the Select Committee on Atmospheric Railways; together

with the Minutes of Evidence. Ordered by the House of Commons to be

printed April 24, 1845.
   Minutes of Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers. London

1844 and 1845.

Railways: their Rise, Progress, and Construction, &c. By Robert

Ritchie. London 1846.

1844-48.]  THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM.                                 863
                                                                 Paris
   Tube Propulseur, Hallette, &c. &c. Paris.        -
   The Railway Chronicle. London 1846 to 1848.      Pei-donnet.
   Reports of the South Devon Railway.
   Traité Elémentaire des Chemins de Fer. Par Aug.

1860.

             END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

                                         
THE LIFE

                                                          OF

ROBERT STEPHENSON F.R.S.

                                                              EtC. EtC.
            LATE PRESIDENT OF THE INSTITUTION OF CIVIL ENGINEERS.

             J (f JEAFFEESON
                                                                    ·t
                                        BaRKIStEB-At-la'W

                                            WItH DESCB.IPtIVE CHaPTERS ON

SOME OF HIS MOST IMPORTANT PROFESSIONAL WORKS

                                                                     BY

              WILLIAM POLE, F.R.S.

           MEMBEE OF tHE INStItUtION OF CIVIL ENGINEEKS. -

                                               IN TWO VOLUMES.

                                       VOL. II.

LONDONr,; : \  '/> :                             :

LONGMAN, GREEN, LONGMAN, ,,KdBERTS; & GxiEEN. '

      i TiAo

       311017

 f-'Lr'/ii.' ..

[[hi. t .

·*   *   **  *
*»*  *>

                  CONTENTS

                                                     OF

          THE SECOND VOLUME.

                         CHAPTER I.

          THE BATTLE OP THE GAUGES.

                         (^Tat. 40-42.)

Great Western Railway in 1833 --Brunel's Scheme for a Broad Gauge--
   History of the Narrow Gauge--Advantages anticipated by Brunel from a
   Broad Gauge-- Brunel's Report of 1838 -- Theory of Railway Districts --
  Break of Gauge first takes place at Gloucester in 1844 --Goods Traffic, not
   Passengers, the grand Cause of Difficulty at ' Breaks of Gauge '-- Gauge
  Pamphleteers -- The Oxford and Wolverhampton Contest in 1845 --Lord
  Dalhousie's and Mr. Cobden's Motions -- Royal Gauge Commission ap
  pointed --Brunei's Inconsistencies -- The Railway Clearing House, insti
  tuted under the Auspices of Mr. Glyn and Mr. Hudson -- Its leading
  Principles and its Returns for 1845 -- Witnesses examined by the Gauge

....Commissioners --Brunel left alone --Robert Stephenson's Character as a

  Parliamentary Witness --His Evidence before the Gauge Commission --
  Brunel's Expedients for obviating the Evils of ' Break of Gauge '-- The
  Commissioners' Report -- The last Argument in favour of Competition
  advanced by the Broad Gauge Party and answered by Mr. Thornton
  Hunt -- Dlustrated Evidence --The Gauge Act -- Robert Stephenson's
Report on Double Gauges                                  Page 1

                         CHAPTER H.

                         IKON BRIDGES.

Mr. Stephenson's large Practice in Iron Bridges --His Article on the
Subject in the Encychpcedia Sritannica --Modern Use of the Material --
Early Bridges --First Iron Arch Bridges --Tom Paine's Bridge --Full
vol. ii.
                         a

vi CONTENTS OF

Development of the Iron Arch Bridge --First Use of Wrought Iron --
Suspension Bridges -- Captain Samuel Brown-- Mr. Telford --The Menai
Bridge -- Introduction of Kailways -- Consequent large Demand for Iron

.....Bridges--Return to the Form of the simple Beam-- Comparison of the

three different Systems of Iron Bridges --Advantages of the Girder
System--Cast-iron Girders --Compound Girders --The Dee Bridge --
Royal Commission on Iron Railway Structures -- Introduction of Wrought-
iron Girders --Different Varieties of Girders -- Examples --The Aire
Bridge --The Benha Bridge --Last Work of Mr. Stephenson's Life, Res
toration of Tom Paine's Bridge                         Page 30

                 CHAPTER DJ.

                 THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.

The Port of Holyhead --The Holyhead Trunk Road -- Interruption hy the
Menai Strait -- Attempts to establish a Passage -- Telford's Suspension
Bridge -- Introduction of Railways --Chester and Holyhead Railway--
Proposal to use Telford's Bridge for Railway Purposes --Mr. Stephenson
         an independent Bridge --The Britannia Rock --Proposal for a
designs  of two Arches --Opposition in Parliament --First Idea of the
Bridge
Tubular Construction -- Its Novelty -- Preliminary Experiments : Mr.
Fairbairn and Mr. Hodglrinson --Important Principles derived from the
Experiments -- Mr. Stephenson's Report -- Commencement of the Ma
sonry--Further experimental Inquiries -- Means of placing the Tubes in
their Positions --Contracts for the Tubes -- Their Manufacture-- Floating
and Raising -- Description of the Bridge -- Principle of Continuity --
Tubes-- Mr. Stephenson's Explanations of Peculiarities in their Construc
tion --Towers and Abutments-- Architectural Design -- Cost-- The Conway

Bridge                                                 73

                 CHAPTER IV.

         THE HIGH LEVEL BRIDGE Al NEWCASTLE-ON-TYirE.

Object of the Bridge-- Ravine of the Tyne-- Ancient Bridge at a Low
Level -- Inconveniences of the Passage--Early Proposals for a High Level
Bridge --Mr. Green's Scheme --High Level Bridge Company -- Mr. Ste
phenson appointed Engineer --Newcastle and Darlington Railway --Pro
posal for the Double Roadway -- Parliamentary Proceedings --Description
of the Bridge -- The Piers -- The Lron Superstructure -- Mr. Stephenson's
...Motives for the Adoption of the Bowstring Girder -- Letting of the

Contract -- Driving the Piles-- Manufacture of the Ironwork -- Erection --
Completion .  .                 . . . . 113

                    THE SECOND VOLUME.

                    CHAPTER V.

AFFAIRS, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE, DURING THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                          CHESTER AND HOLYHEAD RAILWAY.

                             (JBTat. 42-47.)

Newcastle and Berwick Line-- The High Level Bridge --Trent Valley
   Line -- Leeds and Bradford Line-- Italian Trip in 1845 --Norwegian Trip
   in 1846 -- Norwegian Liberality-- Irish Famine -- Lord George Bentinck's
   Proposal to subsidise Irish Railway Companies-- Robert Stephenson,
   George Hudson, and Mr. Laing consulted-- Lord George Bentinck's
   Speech in the House of Commons-- Election to the Council and Vice-
   Presidency of the Institute of Civil Engineers -- Narrow Escape on the
   Chester and Holyhead Railway-- Death of George Stephenson -- Relations
   between Father and Son -- Elected Fellow of Royal Society -- Grand
   Banquet at Newcastle -- Summary of his Railways --High Level Bridge
   opened by the Queen-- Robert Stephenson declines the Honour of Knight

....hood-- 'Nene Valley Drainage and Navigation Improvement Com

   missioners '-- Appointed Engineer with Sir John Rennie to the ' Norfolk
   Estuary Company '-- Consulted by the Town Council of Liverpool as to
   the best Means of supplying Liverpool with Water -- Grand Central
   Station at Newcastle opened by the Queen-- Royal Border Bridge opened
   by the Queen-- Statistics relating to Royal Border Viaduct --Robert
Stephenson desirous of Rest                          Page 128

                    CHAPTER VI.

ROBERT STEPHENSON AS POLITICIAN AND MEMBER OF THE HOUSE OF

                                                                COMMONS.

                             44-45.)

George Stephenson's Political Opinions and Sympathies -- Robert Stephen
son's Toryism -- ' Little Lord John ! '-- Opinions on Popular Education --
Robert Stephenson M.P. for Whitby in Yorkshire -- 'One of the Im-
penetrables' --Speech in the House of Commons on the proposed Site
......for the Great Exhibition of 1851 --Discussion on the Army Estimates,
June 19, 1856 -- First Speech against   the   SSuetazteCaonf atlh--eSeSceornpdentSinpeee' c--h
against the Suez Canal -- Speech on    'The
Popularity in the House of Commons-- Letter to Admiral Moorsom on
Crimean Mismanagement -- Reason for declining the Invitation of the
Newcastle Conservatives -- Dislike of Party Strife --Testimonial to Sir

William Hayter                                               142

                    CHAPTER VH.

               ROBERT STEPHENSON IN LONDON SOCIETY.

                             (M1K1 47-55.)

The Year of    the  Great Exhibition--In the  Park-- An Impostor imposed
   upon-- No.  34   Gloucester Square--' The  Sunday Lunches '--Works of

viii CONTENTS OF

Art--Philosophical Apparatus    --Demeanour in   Society --' The    Chief ' in
Great George Street-- Robert                                        '--Stories
                                Stephenson and   ' the Profession

of Robert Stephenson's Generosity -- 'The Westminster Review' on
Robert Stephenson -- Cab-drivers and             Payment -- Zenith
Stephenson's Prosperity -- His part in  their    Great Exhibition   of  Robert
                                         the                        of
                                                                        1851 --

Crack-brained Projectors -- Aquatic Amusements-- The ' House' without a
Knocker' --Alexandria and Cairo Railway --Victoria (St. Lawrence)
Viaduct -- Mr. Samuel Bidder's Reminiscences-- Grand Banquet at Mon
treal to Robert Stephenson -- His Speech on the Occasion --Connection
with Mr. Alexander Ross -- The St. Lawrence Viaduct completed, and

inspected by Robert Stephenson's Deputies        .  .                  Page 157

                       chapter vrn.

THE GREAT VICTORIA BRIDGE OVER THE RIVER ST. LAWRENCE IN

                                CANADA.

One of Mr. Stephenson's Last "Works -- Line of Lakes and River St.
   LawTence-- Difficulties of the Navigation -- Introduction of Railways into
   Canada--The Grand Trunk Railway-- Engineering Problem in the
  Design of the Bridge --Phenomena of the Ice-- Early Proposals for a
   Bridge -- Mr. A. W. Ross -- Mr. Stephenson consulted-- Joint Report -- Mr.

......Stephenson visits Canada and reports again to the Directors --Surveys

   -- Letting of the Contract -- Iron-work -- Mr. G. R. Stephenson-- Contro
   versy on the fitness of the Design -- Mr. Stephenson's Views -- Description
   of the Bridge -- Site -- Piers -- Tubes -- Erection of the Bridge -- Founda
   tions-- Caissons -- Shortness of the Working Season -- Contrivances to save
  Time --Inspection of the Bridge -- Opening by the Prince of Wales --
Difficulties overcome                                                   190

                       CHAPTER IX.

              CONCLUDING TEARS AT HOME AND ABROAD.

                                (JBIST. 47-55.)
Athenseum Club --Geographical Society -- Royal Society Club --The ' Philo
sophical Club ' of the Royal Society -- Robert Stephenson, President of
the Institution of Civil Engineers -- Receives the honorary D.C.L. of
Oxford -- The Dark Side of his Prosperity-- Failing Health -- Admiration
of Mechanical Skill -- Speech at Sunderland --The Wear Bridge -- Strong
Affection for Newcastle -- Periodic Visits to the Factory -- Judicious and
Considerate Conduct to humble Relations --Visits to Long Benton --
Contribution to Painted Window in Long Benton Church -- Visit to
Wylam-- Isaac Jackson, the Clockmaker -- On Board the 'Titania' --
        --toTriApdmtoirEagl ypMt o--orAsnomu--nfuHlafimllepdsteParedseCnhtuimrcehnyta--rdL--ettSeorcsiaflromEngAalegxe
Letter
ments

andria and Algiers -- Last Christmas Dinner of Stephenson and Brunel --
                Season -- Last   Visit to Ro}'al Society Club -- Last  Will and
Last London   Last Voyage to    Norway -- Opening of the Norwegian     Railway
Testament --
--Banquet to Robert Stephenson at Christiania -- Last Public Speech. 230

    THE SECOND VOLUME.                            ix

    CIIAPTEE X.

    LAST SCENES.

    (-KTat. 55.)

Homeward Course of the ' Titania ' and the ' Mayfly '--Robert Stephenson
lands at Lowestoft -- Arrives at Gloucester Square again -- Temporary
Rally -- Death -- Public Agitation -- The Queen's Expression of Sympathy
-- Funeral Procession-- Interment in Westminster Abbey -- Attendance at
the Ceremony--Sacred Service at Newcastle --Public Mourning at various
important Towns -- Plate on Coflin-lid --Inscription on Monumental Brass
-- The Article in the 'Times' on the Morning after the Funeral --
Generous Tone of the Press -- Last Honours
                                            .  .  Page 258

.306Index
..  ....                                       .


ILLUSTRATIONS IN VOL. II.

PORTRAIT OF ROBERT STEPHENSON, PROM A PHOTOGRAPH      To face litle

Diagrams oe several large Iron Bridges, all drawn to

the same Scale                                        Page 71

Britannia Bridge, North Wales           ...           ,, 73
Conway Bridge, North Wales                            ,, 109
High Level Bridge, Newcastle-upon-Tyne                ,, 127

Victoria Bridge, over the St. Lawrence, Montreal .    ,, 227


           THE LIFE

                                                         OF

ROBERT STEPHENSON.

          CHAPTEE I.

          THE BATTLE OP THE GAUGES.

                                                   (astat. 40-42.)

 Great Western Railway in 1833 -- Brunel's Scheme for a Broad
 Gauge -- History of the Narrow Gauge -- Advantages anticipated
 by Brunei from a Broad Gauge -- Brunel's Report of 1838 -- Theory
 of Railway Districts -- Break of Gauge first takes place at Gloucester
 in 1844--Goods Traffic, not Passengers, the grand Cause of Difficulty
at 'Breaks of Gauge ' -- Gauge Pamphleteers -- The Oxford and
Wolverhampton Contest in 1845 -- Lord Dalhousie's and Mr. Cohden's
Motions -- Royal Gauge Commission appointed -- Brunel's Incon
sistencies -- The Railway Clearing House, instituted under the
Auspices of Mr. Glyn and Mr. Hudson -- Its leading Principles and
its Returns for 1845 -- Witnesses examined by the Gauge Commis
sioners -- Brunel left alone -- Robert Stephenson's Character as a
Parliamentary Witness -- His Evidence before the Gauge Com
mission -- Brunel's Expedients for obviating the Evils of 'Break of
Gauge '-- The Commissioners' Report -- The last Argument in favour
of Competition advanced by the Broad Gauge Party and answered
by Mr. Thornton Hunt --Illustrated Evidence -- The Gauge Act --
Robert Stephenson's Report on Double Gauges.

WHILST Eobert Stephenson was proving that the
             locomotive was superior to atmospheric pro

pulsion in economy and adaptability of power, he was

VOL. II.  B

2  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPI1ENSON.  [Ch. I.

 involved in another controversy, of not less importance,
 which brought him again in collision with the brilliant

 engineer, who was throughout life his constant professional
 opponent, and warm private friend. The relations that
 subsisted between him and Brunel could not have endured

 between rivals endowed with merely ordinary generosity.

 Continually as they were pitted against each other, much
 as the reputation of the one was exalted by the failures of
 the other, they not only preserved strong mutual affection,
 but in their gravest periods of public trial were always
 ready to assist each other with counsel and support.
When Eobert Stephenson with fearful anxiety was
watching the floating of his first enormous tubular bridge
to the piers, Brunel stood by his side ; and when
Brunel was heroically contending with the gigantic
difficulties of launching the Great Eastern, Bobejt Stephen
son disregarded the claims of fading health, in order that

he might be on the spot to encourage and advise his
brother engineer. Two nobler adversaries the world

never witnessed.

    Whilst ordinary men were admiring the phenomena
of railway developement, Brunel was criticising George

Stephenson's system and planning improvements. It struck

him that iron roads were not all they might be, or ought

to be ; and it was not long before he struck out a novel

method for their construction. At the first projection of

the Great Western Eailway in 1833, it was contemplated
that that line and the London and Birmingham Eailway
should have a common terminus in the metropolis. The
combined opposition of the Eton and Oxford authorities
threw out the Great Western Bill in its first parliamentary
campaign, and before the renewal of the contest, Brunel,

1834.]       THE NARROW GAUGE.  3

as engineer of the line, proposed to some of the directors

that their gauge, or distance between the rails, should be
7 feet instead of 4 feet 8^ inches. This suggestion was
submitted to Eobert Stephenson, and was by him promptly
rejected. Under ordinary circumstances there would
have been an end of the novel scheme ; but Brunel was

gifted with no ordinary powers of persuasion, and the

directors of the Great Western were induced by him
to separate themselves from the London, and Birming

ham Company, and make their line according to his

wishes.

As the reader is well aware, the gauge of George

Stephenson's first public railway was 4 feet 8^ inches,
which had been the gauge of the colliery tramways of

Northumbria  from the time of their first construction.
             of Lord Keeper North, a.d. 1676, it is
In the Life
recorded --

    The manner of the carriage is by laying rails of timber
from the colliery to the river, exactly straight and parallel ; and
bulky carts are made with four rollers fitting those rails, where
by the carriage is so easy that one horse will draw down four or
five chaldrons of coals, and is an immense benefit to the coal

merchant.

    Made to be drawn by horses, these wagons differed
little from the carts previously used, the innovation
consisting only in finding for them smooth wooden ways,
and wheels adapted to those ways. When the wooden
trams were first cased with metal, and later on the intro
duction of iron rails, the same width was continued. The
introduction of the locomotive brought with it no new
conditions inviting men to change the usage of the
country ; and George Stephenson therefore made his

             B2

4  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. I.

lines in accordance with the ancient custom. This 4 feet

8^ inches was the original tramroad gauge.

   Other gauges were in existence. In some of the mineral

districts of England, where the tramways have to meander
down hills and into positive gullies, a gauge of two feet

had been adopted. In such a country, and for the carriage

of minerals, a very broad gauge was clearly not to be
thought of. But for comparatively open and level regions
no objection to the introduction of greater width between

the rails presented itself, to counterbalance the advantages
hoped for from the change. Those advantages Brunel
expected to find in greater speed, ease of motion, and

economy of working. With the wider way, the engineer
contemplated the use of larger carriages and more
powerful engines. From his engines fitted with wheels ten
feet high he looked for a vast increase of speed ; and he
hoped to effect greater safety by placing his passenger-
carriages between instead of over the wheels. Accord
ing to his calculation one grand advantage of the

wide gauge would be diminution of oscillation at high

speeds.

    The most obvious objection to a wider gauge, at that
period of railway history, was the increase it would

necessarily effect in the expenses of constructing a line --

especially where tunnels, earth-works, and viaducts were
frequently needed. The next point for criticism to fix
upon was the inconvenience that would ensue to the public
wherever lines with different gauges ran into each other.
These two difficulties Brunel handled with characteristic

adroitness, treating the former as of little weight with
regard to the works he contemplated, and finding in the
latter an argument actually in favour of his scheme.

1838.]  BKUNEL'S FIRST POSITION.                           5

Making the most of his theory that each district of the

country should have the gauge most adapted to its geo

graphical features, he reminded his opponents that it was

no part of his plan to do away with the two, three, and

four feet gauges of mineral districts, or to oppose the

4 feet 8^ gauge in countries where that width had already
been used or was likely to be most serviceable, but only to

introduce his wide gauge in regions, comparatively open,

sparsely populated, and untried by railway engineers.

London and Bristol, he argued, were separated by a sweep

of country offering (except at two or three points) com

paratively few obstacles to the maker of iron roads. The

difference of cost, therefore, between a wide road and a

narrow road would be slight -- at least slight compared

With the advantages of a system which would convey with

unexampled rapidity an entire army of passengers from

the metropolis to the capital of the West, in a single

train. So cleverly was the objection of expense thus put

aside, that shareholders were almost ashamed of their

folly in raising the question. The next point -- the incon

venience, namely, of 'break of gauge,' as it was soon

called --Brunel treated in a very different way. It was

true the inconvenience of a break of gauge would be

grave, if it occurred ; but then he maintained it never

would occur.              to the directors  of the  Great

   In his report of 1838
Western, he said : --

  I shall now consider the subject of the width of gauge. The

question of the disadvantage of differing in point of gauge from
other railways, and the consequent exclusion from communica
tion with them, is the first. This is undoubtedly an inconve

nience; it amounts to a prohibition to almost any railway

6  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPIIENSON.                               [Ch. L

running northwards from London, as they must all more or less
depend for their supply upon other lines or districts where
railways already exist, and with which they most hope to be
connected. In such cases there is no alternative.

    The Great Western Railway, however, broke ground in an
entirely new district, in which railways were unknown. At
present it commands this district, and has already sent forth
branches which embrace nearly all that can belong to it.

   Such is the position of the Great Western Railway. It could

have no connection with any other of the main lines, and the

principal branches likely to be made were well considered, and
almost formed part of the original plan, nor can these be depen
dent upon any other existing lines for the traffic which they will
bring to the main trunk.

    Such was Brunel's language in the early stages of the

gauge controversy, and such it had been when he pre

vailed on the directors of the Great Western to adopt his

innovation.* Briefly stated, his argument was this : --

    * Mr. Brunei's evidence before      engineer ? -- Yes, the first line upon

Gauge Commissioners, Oct. 25, 1845,     Iwhich was engaged which was con
gives the particulars of the origin     Istructed; had looked over other
and growth of his preference for the
                                        lines of country.    railways ? --
Broad Gauge.                               ' With a view to

   I'You are the engineer of the        Yes.

Great Western Railway ?-- am.             'At what period did it occur to
    ' Was the line surveyed under your
                                        Iyou to change the gauge from 4 feet
direction ?--Yes.
    ' And you decided on its course ?   8^ inches to 7 feet ? -- think, in my
                                        own mind, it occurred to me in the
--Yes.
                                        course of my surveys in 1833 and
   'In what year was that?-- In
                                        1834.
1833.
    ' That was three or four years         ' That a change of gauge would be
                                        desirable ? -- Yes.
subsequently to the formation of
the Manchester and Liverpool Rail       'But the exact amount of the
way ?-- Yes.
                                        I I Ichange you had not then decided
   'Had you, before you took the
direction of the Great Western Rail     upon ? -- think not, and think
                                        never mentioned it to anyone.
way, any employment in railway
matters ?-- No.                            ' Will you favour the Commis

   'That was the first line upon        sioners with the reasons which in

which you were engaged as an            duced you to think that 4 feet H%
                                        inches was insufficient at that early
                                        period ? -- Looking to the speeds which

1838.]                                    BRUNEL'S ARGUMENT.                                         7

   The west country at present has no railways, it lies open
to our enterprise. Let us seize the opportunity, and drive a
grand trunk line with a few important branches through
making our gauge such that no line of the old gauge can run

into our roads and suck our traffic. By adopting this course we
shall have monopoly of the west country.
          a

                                                                                       it,

   At first Brunel met with little encouragement from the

directors. They were not alarmed at the novel proposals,
nor did they condemn them as chimerical, but commercial
caution made them apprehensive that they might sink in
public estimation they declared themselves the leaders
of revolutionary movement. Brunel's suggestion, how
ever, of monopoly of the west country, from the
impossibility of narrow gauge lines acting harmoniously
   a
               a

                      if

contemplated would be adopted on                            Do you recollect at what period
it I                                                        7
                                                               '
                    it
                                                                              ?
                                  a                         you determined upon submitting the
railways, and the masses to be moved,
                                                            comfeeptangyauge--toItthmeusdtirehacvtoersboeef nyoaulr
seemed to me that the whole machine

was too small for the work to be done,
and that                           required that the parts  most immediately after the passing

should be on scale more commensu                            of the Act, which was in 1835, and

rate with the mass and the velocity to                      think must have mentioned                to
                                              a?                                 ?a
be attained.                                                the directors long prior to that, be
                                                I                                  I
  'The trains at that period were                           cause made great efforts to get the
                                                         '                                       it
comparatively light to what they are                        clause omitted which fixed the gauge,
                                                    III     and communicated certainly with
now, both in goods and passengers                           Lord Shaftesbury early in 1835.

--Yes.                                                           Therefore the omission of that
    You had probably travelled
'

good deal upon other railways, and                          clause, which was    very proper

had seen much of other railways                             omission perhaps, was the result of
that then existed -- Yes, as much
I                                                           your communication -- It had been

   I it

            ; is

            I
                                    ?
                I
                                       a
as possibly could. think the im                             omitted, fortunately perhaps for me,

pression grew upon me gradually, so                         in one Bill previously. think that
                                                            the Commissioners will find that in
that      difficult to fix the time

when first thought wide gauge                               the first Southampton Railway Act

desirable but dare say there were                              was omitted. It was omitted in
stages between wishing that could                           it

                                                                I
                                          it                the first Great Western Bill, and

be so, and determining to try and do                        there must have taken steps with
                                                            reference to the gauge early in
it,

    I
and cannot at this moment dis

tinctly remember the time.                                  1835.'

8  LITE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Cn. L

with broad gauge lines, sunk deep in the minds of the
projectors, and bore fruit.

   There is no ground for thinking that Brunel acted
disingenuously towards his directors. He saw in railways
only the future channels of communication between im

portant centres of manufacture and commerce -- not the

means of passage between petty market towns and secluded
hamlets. Each range of country would have its grand
trunk, with its limited number of branches to cathedral

towns and harbours ; but it was not on the list of chances

that the branches of these gigantic arteries would multiply,

extend, and cross each other -- that the surface of the

island would be one patch of network. Holding this
view (which was the view almost universal in 1833),
Brunel gave his directors honest counsel.

   He gained his object. The bill was obtained, and the
line was made in accordance with his wishes. It was true

that its construction was attended with costly accidents
and vain experiments. The engines with the huge wheels
turned out failures, in consequence of their being deficient
in boiler power; but at length the railroad began its
career with dazzling eclat. The Great Western was the
topic of ' the season.' Everyone was in raptures with the
smoothness of its way, the height of its speeds, and the
luxury of its first-class carriages. As far as the drawing-
rooms of May Fair were concerned, the success of the broad

gauge was established. Many a humble family has cause to
lament that experience, and vulgar calculations of pounds,

 shillings, and pence have signally falsified this flattering

 verdict.

   A few years gave the public an opportunity of judging

 how far the theory of distinct fields of railways, not

1844.]  'BREAK OF GAUGE.  9

running into each other, was likely to be realised in

practice. The plans of projectors soon indicated that iron
roads would refuse to run to the capital without inter

communication, and the year 1844 saw the Western and

Midland counties in actual collision. The extension of

the line between Birmingham and Gloucester, uniting the
latter town with Bristol, had, in order that it might accord
with the line of which it was a continuation, been planned
on the narrow gauge. The directors of the Great Western,
seeing in this narrow gauge extension, known,, .as., the
Bristol and Gloucester, an alarming irruption into .their
broad gauge field, contrived by a stroke of finance, to

gain control over its company. Their control jvas of

course exercised to convert the proposed narrow gauge
into an actual broad gauge. The result was that on the
opening of the extension in 1844, the two scales of road

way met, and Gloucester had the honour of being the

scene of the first 'break of gauge.' At first ' the break '

attracted but little attention beyond engineering circles.

The public were not sufficiently familiar with railways to
Ifbe highly critical.
                       passengers from Birmingham to

Bristol had to get out of narrow gauge carriages at

Gloucester, and crossing over a platform with their

baggage, had to seek fresh places in the broad gauge
extension, the trouble was trifling compared with that

of the shiftings from stage-coach to stage-coach to
which travellers had been accustomed. When ' the battle

of the gauges was at its height,' pamphleteers were
pathetic on the sufferings of delicate ladies and young
children, compelled to ' change places,' and pass through
the raw night air on their way from one gauge to the

other.

                       i

10  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. L

    Had passengers only been affected by · break of gauge,'
 little attention would have been paid to their discom
 fort and complaints ; for the hardship is slight which
 an ordinary traveller sustains in changing his carriage
 once in half a hundred miles. The real inconvenience
of 'a break of gauge' was found in the conveyance of

 goods.

    Eailway communication had not existed many weeks
 between Birmingham and Bristol, before the manu
 facturers of Birmingham and the railway officials at
 Gloucester knew what was the real difficulty. The
 heavy goods, sent from Birmingham for shipment at
 Bristol, had to be shifted from gauge to gauge by the

 Gloucester porters. Packages were misplaced, delayed,
or missent. Complaints daily increased ; and ' Birmingham

men' learnt the discomfort of having a break of gauge
between themselves and the Bristol Channel. In due

course a comparison of the goods traffic on the Grand
Junction, the London and Birmingham, and the Midland
lines, with that on the route between Birmingham and
Bristol, gave a triumph to the opponents of the broad

gauge.
    ' Break of gauge ' was no longer a matter of speculation,

but an evil in actual existence. The agitation it aroused

soon attracted the attention of the legislature. In the
session of 1845, the London and Birmingham and Great

Western Companies were in the field with rival bills for a
line of railway between Oxford and Wolverhampton. The
manifest evils of ' break of gauge ' induced the railway
department of the Board of Trade to decide against the
pretensions of the Great Western. The House of
Commons, however, set aside the decision of the Board of

II1845.] MOTIONS OF LORD DALHOUSIE AND ME. COBDEN.

Trade, and without offering any opinion on the advan

tages of uniformity or variety of gauges, gave the pre
ference to the Great Western on the ground that it was

the better line, their choice being endorsed by the House

of Lords. Thus for the moment victory was with the

broad gauge party, but the facts brought to light by the

contest between Eobert Stephenson's company and

Brunel's company induced both Houses of Parliament to

ask for further investigations.      All the preceding
   The battle now began in earnest.

encounters were mere skirmishing, compared with the

tug of war which now set in. On the one side were

 drawn up the forces of narrow gauge, on the other

appeared those of broad gauge, double gauge, and mixed

gauge ; whilst hovering on the flanks of the two armies

were the scattered companies of the medium gauges.

The revelations of the Oxford and Wolverhampton

Committee were followed by the motions of Lord

Dalhousie in the Lords and Mr. Cobden in the Commons,

which resulted in an address, unanimously voted, for a
Eoyal Commission to ascertain ' whether in future private

acts for the construction of railways, provision ought

to be made for securing an uniform gauge ; and whether

it would be expedient and practicable to take measures

to bring railways already constructed, or in progress of

construction, into uniformity of gauge.' Without delay

the commission was appointed. It was composed of

Colonel Sir Frederick Smith, of the Eoyal Engineers,

who had previously acted as Inspector-General of

Eailways; Professor Barlow, of the Woolwich Military

Academy (ex-commissioner of Irish Eailways), and Pro
fessor Airy, the Astronomer Eoyal.

12  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPIIENSON.  [Ch. L

     The men whose memories survey seven years with
 accuracy are few. But the few who bore in mind
 Brunel's position in 1836, '37, and '38 were not a little
 amused with the line he adopted before the Oxford and
Wolverhampton, and the Gauge Commissions. Of course,
inconsistencies and plausible arguments in their support
were looked for from the man who, in the full observa
tion of men of science and the general public, appeared
as the champion of two novelties in railway locomotion,
involving diametrically opposite principles. While the

broad gauge demanded larger and heavier locomotives
than the narrow gauge, the atmospheric system was
represented as immeasurably superior to the locomotive '
system, because the grinding weight of the travelling
engines (such as were used on narrow gauge lines)
caused ruinous damage to the rails. That is to say,
Brunel, at one and the same time, was exclaiming against
the destruction of rails by the use of heavy locomotives,
and urging the employment of locomotives of an un
precedented weight. On the broad gauge Brunel asked
for easy curves ; while he represented that the peculiar
merit of the atmospheric system was the capability which it

afforded of constructing lines with very sharp curves. In
railway administration, argued the engineer of the broad
gauge lines, the first object was to limit the traffic to a
few heavy trains ; but changing his tone, the versatile
engineer, in pleading for the atmospheric system, insisted
that the exigencies of the public required trains to be

many and light.

    Nothing daunted Brunel. His theory of railway
districts had signally broken down. At the outset of his
crusade against the narrow gauge, he had argued that

1845.] BRUNEL BEFORE THE GAUGE COMMISSION.  13

break of gauge could never happen -- partly because
railway lines would have a natural tendency towards

London, and partly because the enormous and manifest
inconveniences of ' a break of gauge ' would deter any

line of one width from running into another. But the

break, which he maintained sheer terrorism would

render an impossibility, had through his instrumentality

occurred. The case was unquestionably an awkward one,

but he could meet it. He stood up, and smiled at the

fears of Ms opponents.                    It was true that breaks of

gauge, if the broad gauge system were extended, would be
frequent, * but they could be easily dealt with. With

   * 'The completed or projected              ' To the South Western Railway,
branches of the Great Western
Railway itself,' says Mr. Wyndhani        at Basingstoke and Salisbury.
Harding in his pamphlet -- 'The               ' To the projected Dorchester and
Gauge Question j Evils of Diversity of
Gauge, and a Remedy '-- ' which was       Southampton Railway, at Dorchester.
expected, as we have seen, to have no        ' To the proposed Welsh Midland
connection with any other existing
line -- now join it to most of the other  line, at Hereford and Swansea.
main lines in the country. For               ' To the Bristol and Gloucester

instance :                                line, with which it is already
    ' To the Grand Junction, and to the
                                          connected, at Bristol and Stonehouse.
projected Shrewsbury and Birming
ham Railways, at Wolverhampton.              ' [All these are narrow gauge
                                          lines, with the exception of the last,
    ' To the Grand Junction, London
and Birmingham, and Midland Rail          which is a broad gauge line at

ways, at Birmingham.                      present, but its proprietors have an
    ' To the London and Birmingham,       nounced their desire and intention of
                                          obtaining powers to convert it into a
the Midland, and the proposed Trent
"Valley and Churnet Valley lines, at      nar' rAonwdgiafugteheliGnere.]at Western Rail

Rugby.                                    way, with its broad gauge branches,
    ' To the London and Birmingham        do not go to these lines, they with
                                          their narrow gauge branches will come
Railway again, at Warwick.
    ' To the Birmingham and Glouces       to the Great Western, thus connect

ter Railway, at Cheltenham and            ing by railway almost every county
Worcester.                                and town in the kingdom with every

                                          other.

                                             ' What are all these branches pro
                                          jected for, except to bring traffic from

         '  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                           [Ch. I.

14

inexhaustible fertility of resource, he enumerated various
expedients by which the gigantic evil of 1838 could in
1845 be reduced to a merely nominal inconvenience. The
passengers could be left to take care of themselves. As
for goods, porters could shift small packages by hand.
Heavier goods might be packed on carriages, so con
structed that their bodies by the aid of a mechanical
apparatus might be shifted, without unpacking their
contents, from frames with narrow wheels and axles to

broader frames with wheels and axles suited to the wide

gauge. He was even prepared to shift the narrow gauge
carriages, wheels and all, and place them on broad gauge
frames. Coals and other minerals might be packed in
loose boxes made of iron, two of which wlren shifted from
the narrow roads would fill one broad gauge truck. He
invented telescopic axles which enabled carriages to travel
on either gauge. Or he would lay down narrow gauge
lines within his broad gauge rails. Of course these ex
pedients involved great additional expense, in porters and
machinery and time. But pecuniary expense was a consi
deration to which Brunel was indifferent.

   A few extracts from his evidence before the Gauge

Commissioners will show how little care he now had for ex

penditure in an arrangement which was in the first instance
recommended to the public on the score of economy.

the lines and districts with which    culties attending a change of gauge

they communicate, or to take traffic  tinhen1,83w8 h"ichh,avaes  was admitted, would
to them from one extremity of the
                                      the north such             enatirceolyurspere"venatsed    in
country to another, and therefore                                                             one
over the narrow gauge on to the
broad gauge, or over the broad        frraoilmwatyheadreosptt,inngodwiffehraevnetd"imeexinssteionnces
gauge to a narrow gauge ? The diffi-  in the west." '

1845.]  A MERE QUESTION OF MONEY.                  15

   As regards goods (he said in the conclusion of his long
answer to interrogatory 4029), it is of course a mere question

of money ; and if there is a considerable stream of goods in one

Iline, and it is the interest of two parties meeting at a certain

point to interchange those goods, believe the inconvenience
and expense will be so trifling that it is hardly worth considera

tion, if there are other important considerations in the question

of the change of gauge.                  ,

    When, however, he was pressed as to the details of his

plans for interchange, he became even more vague :--

4048. Having dealt with the passengers, and having had now

some considerable time to think of the question of goods, since

it was brought forward in the last session of parliament, have

you made up your mind     at all  as to  the mode   in which you
would arrange respecting                  because
                          them?   --No;            it must depend

Iupon what other companies choose to do on the other side ; if

they do 'not afford assistance, will not say if they throw im
pediments in the way, but if they do not afford assistance to

exchange, the mode must be different from that which

it would be if they did. As regards coal, there is no doubt

that there would be every facility, because, the mode of carry
ing an article in large quantities like coal, will no doubt be in

fluenced by the wishes and desires of the coal-owners, and the

coal-owners will, of course, be desirous of doing whatever will

Iencourage their trade with Oxford.
   4049. You would have no difficulty with them ?-- think we

shall have no difficulty whatever with them. As regards general
goods, it must depend upon what the other companies may

choose to do ; the worst that could happen, of course, would be

the entire unloading and reloading of goods^ even that does not

amount to anything in time or money that would be much felt

by the public.

    A. reference to the returns for the year 1845 of the
Eailway Clearing House will show how far interchange
between railways could be hindered or disturbed, without

causing the public serious inconvenience. Under the

16  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.       [Cn. I.

auspices of Mr. Hudson and Mr. Glyn, the Eailway Clearing
House was established on January 2, 1842, to relieve rail
way companies of the burdensome calculations consequent
on a system of correspondence which had grown up since
the opening of the public lines of railway between London
and Liverpool. The leading principles of the Clearing
House system are three.* Firstly, passengers are booked

through at all principal stations, and conveyed to their

destinations without change of carriage -- horses, cattle,

goods, being in like manner sent through without change
of conveyance. Secondly, companies respectively pay a
fixed rate per mile, for such carriages and wagons, not
their own property, as they may use ; and a further sum

per day by way of fine or demurrage for detention, if

kept beyond a prescribed length of time. Thirdly, no
direct settlement may take place between the companies in
respect of any traffic, the accounts of which have passed
through the Eailway Clearing House. This is no place
for a minute description of the Clearing House operations.

It is enough to say, that through them ' the transactions

of one company with all other companies, amounting
frequently to many thousand pounds a week, are cleared

weekly by a sum seldom exceeding a few hundred

pounds.'

   An institution so manifestly adapted to commercial
exigencies met with immediate success. With a few very

unimportant exceptions, all the narrow gauge companies
joined the association as soon as they came into existence,
and had need to correspond with other companies. The

   * 'The Origin and Results of the  A pamphlet printed for private circu-
Clearing System which is in opera-
tion on theNarrow Gauge Railways.'   lation.

1845.]  THE GAUGE COMMISSION.          17

transactions of the House soon became very heavy ; their
returns for 1845 showing,

that 517,888 persons were in that year each conveyed through
an average distance of 146 miles, the average length of the
lines travelled over being forty-one miles, so that each passenger
travelled over four railways on the average, and must have
passed three junctions or points of convergence. To accommo
date these passengers, 59,765 railway carriages, and 5,813
carriages, were sent through. There were also sent through in
the same year, 7,573 horse-boxes, 2,607 post offices, and
180,606 goods wagons, besides wagons conveying minerals, of
which no record is kept in the Clearing House.*

   Of course the extension of the broad gauge would have

crippled, if not altogether put an end to this admirable

system of correspondence. The Clearing House, therefore,
was another powerful antagonist to the broad gauge, and
its returns, giving the aggregate of railway correspondence
throughout the entire country, furnished the advocates of
uniformity of gauge with valuable facts and illustrations

for. their arguments.
    The witnesses examined by the Gauge Commissioners in

f1845 were forty-six in number, and they included every

  * ' A Brief History of the Gauge        4. Braithwaite, John, C.E.
                                          5. Brown, James, manager of Sir
Question.'                             John Price's iron and coal-works.

  t The following classified list of      6. Buckton, Thomas, secretary to

the forty-six witnesses will be in     the Brighton Railway.
teresting both to the public and to       7. Budd, James P., manager of
professional readers :--
                                       copper-works and coal-mines, and
     In favour of uniformity and a     deputy-chairman of the Welsh Mid
                                       land Railway.
                  narrow gauge :
                                          8. Chaplin, W. James, chairman
   1. Bass, William, agent to Messrs.  of the South Western, head of the
Pickford.
                                       carrying firm.
    2. Bidder, George Parker, C.E.
     3. Bodmer, George, locomotive        9. Clarke, Peter, manager of the
 manufacturer.                         Brighton Eailway.

    VOL. II.

18  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.        [Cn. 1.

person eminent in the railway world as an engineer, a
manufacturer of locomotives, a manager, a secretary, a

    10. Creed, Richard, secretary to  In favour of an intermediate gauge,
the London and Birmingham Rail
                                          theoreticatty, and against the broad
way.                                     gauge, but favourable to uniformity
   11. Ellis, John, deputy-chairman      of gauge:

of the Midland Railway.                  1. Bury, Edward, locomotive
   12. Fernihough, William, locomo    manufacturer.

tive superintendent of Eastern Coun      2. Gray, John, locomotive super
                                      intendent, Brighton Railway.
ties Railway.
                                         3. Pasley, Major-General, R.E.,
    13. Harding, Wyndham, late ma     inspector of railways.
nager of the Bristol and Gloucester
                                          4. Roberts, Richard, locomotive
Railway.                              manufacturer.
   14. Hawkshaw, John, C.E.
   15. Hayward, Joseph, of the firm     5. Vignoles, C, C.E

of Pickfords', carriers.              In favour of an intermediate gauge,
   16. Home, Benjamin W., carrier.
   17. Hudson, George, M.P.               expressing no decided t>pinion as to

    18. Huish, Mark, Capt., general      uniformity of gauge:
manager of the Grand Junction, and
                                          1. Cubitt, Benj., late locomotive
Liverpool and Manchester railways.    superintendent of the Croydon and
    19. Jones, Evan, agent for Chap   South Eastern Railways.

lin and Home, carriers, at Camden        2. Cubitt, William, C.E.
                                         3. Landmann, Col. R.E.
Station.
                                      Opposed to break of gauge, but ex
  20. Laws, R.N., Capt. J. M.,
                                          pressing no opinion about gauge :
general manager of the Leeds and
                                         1. Burgoyne, Major-General Sir
Manchester Railway.                   John, Quarter-Master General.
   21. Locke, Joseph, C.E.
                                         2. Gordon, General Sir Wil-
    22. M'Connell, James Edward,
superintendent of the locomotive      loughby, Quarter-Master General.
department on the Birmingham and          3. Downs, Richard, contractor.
Bristol Railway.                          4. Jackson, Thomas, ditto.

   23. Martin, Albinus, C.E., resi    In favour of broad gauge, and against

dent engineer and superintendent of                       uniformity :
the South Western Railway.
                                         1. Brunel, Isambard Kingdom, C.E.
  24. Mills, T. C, manager of the         2. Clark, Seymour, superintendent
                                      of traffic on Great Western.
goods department of the London and       3. Gooch, Daniel, superintendent
                                      of locomotives on Great Western.
Birmingham Railway.                      4. Saunders, Charles Alexander,
   25. O'Brien, Capt. William, late   secretary of the Great Western.

secretary to the South Eastern Rail

way.

  26. Rastrick, J. U., C.E.

   27. Stephenson, Robert, C.E.
   28. Whitaker, Thomas, C.E.
   29. Woods, Edward, C.E.
   30. Wood, Nicholas, C.E.

1845.]  BRUNEL'S FORESIGHT.  19

 carrier, or an amalgamator. Of them, only four were in
 favour of a seven-foot gauge and against uniformity. Three
 offered no opinion as to the desirability of a uniform

gauge. But all the others--L e. 39 out of 46 --were so

impressed with the inevitable evil consequences of break of
gauge, that they concurred in desiring uniformity of road
width, though five of that number had a theoretical
preference for an intermediate gauge, and four others
refrained from offering an opinion as to which gauge

was best.

    Brunel found himself alone. Not one member of his

profession sided with him. Indeed his only companions
in 'the forlorn hope,' of which he was the leader, were
three gentlemen holding office under the Great Western
Company, and pledged in honour to fight to the death for.

the broad gauge. At this date it is easy to see how
Brunel fell into his error, but it is difficult to judge him
with the generosity he merits. He was betrayed into an

embarrassing position not so much by seeing less, as by
seeing farther, than ordinary men. Of the crowd of
witnesses who came against him in 1845, there were few
who in 1834 and 1835 thought of the consequences of
' a break of gauge.' He, however, foresaw them, and
fancied that by seizing a wide tract of country he could by
the fear of those very consequences drive off competition.

Had he been a few years sooner in the field, he might

possibly have succeeded so far as to make his gauge the
gauge of the southern districts of the country, and in some
counties not only to have checked, but even to have sup
planted the narrow gauge. When witness after witness
came up to beat down his fallacies before the Gauge Com
missioners, they were only proving to him what he had

20            LIFE OF ROBEKT STEPHENSON.                                  [Ch. L

seen ten years before, and they had only learnt by recent

experience. It is true that Eobert Stephenson had seen

farther than Brunel. He had not only foreseen the evils
that would arise from ' a break of gauge,' but with his

clear vision, and thorough familiarity with the powers
which he and his rival were contemplating, discerned that
in spite of those obstacles, different fields of railway would

run into each other.

   As Eobert Stephenson had been the first to foresee the

evil consequences of diversity of gauge, he was, apart from

being the recognised chief of his profession, selected as
leader of the narrow gauge party before the Commis

sioners. In this position, therefore, he was the first to give

his evidence before the Commission on August 6, 1845.

On all occasions Eobert Stephenson's evidence was
Ifpeculiarly impressive.
                          he saw the truth, he stated

              was against his interests. With equal
it, although

        ahonesty, he declined answering                             question of opinion,  a if

                 it it

                                a

                                         it

                                                             a
                                                                   '
he had not sound and valid reasons wherewith to sup

port his reply, even when he might feel confident that

quick off-hand statement, agreeable to his interests, would
'Igain point.
               cannot answer that question,' was often

heard from his lips. This straightforward candour at first

told against him, but the influence of his testimony was

in the long run enormously enhanced by it. When was
                                                                          it

stated in railway discussions, that Eobert Stephenson

said such or such thing,'       was understood that the

statement, be right or wrong, was the conscientious and'

deliberate opinion of the first practical engineer of his

day.

    Before the Gauge Commission, Eobert Stephenson's

evidence was temperate and convincing, as was when
                                                                      it

1845.]  ROBERT STEPHENSON'S EVIDENCE.  2L

 ever he spoke on a subject connected with his profession.

At the outset he admitted that at one time the narrow

gauge had appeared to him too confined ; and then he

succinctly stated the changes which had removed the

considerations on which that opinion was based.

  IAs an engine builder (he said), at one time when was called
Iupon to construct engines of greater power than we commenced

the line with, felt some inconvenience in arranging the
machinery properly ; we were a little confined in space, and at

Ithat time an increase of three or four inches would have assisted

us materially, and to that extent thought at one time that an
addition to five feet would have been desirable, but on no other
account, looking at it as a mere engine-builder. Since that
time the improved arrangements in the mechanism of the loco
motive engines have rendered even that increase altogether un
necessary ; at present, with the inside cylinders, which is the class
of engine requiring the most room between the rails, and the
cranked axle with the four eccentrics, we have ample space, and

even space to spare.
    With reference to space, in the arrangement of the machi

nery, which is the main question having reference to the width,

the working gear has been much simplified, and the communi
cations in the most recent engines, between the eccentric and

the slide valve, have been made direct communications ; where

as formerly it was made through the intervention of a series of

Ilevers, which occupied the width. But even without that which
  have just now alluded to, which gives us an extra space with
the engines on the South Western and on various lines in this

country by the improvements which have been made, there is
quite space enough for the whole of the working gear.

   Then with reference to the increase of power, the size of
boiler is, in point of fact, the only limit to the power, and we
have increased them in length on the narrow gauge, because we
have always made the boiler as wide as the narrow gauge would
admit of, but we have increased their length both in the fire

Ibox and in the tubes ; we have obtained economy, conceive, by

lengthening the tubes, and we have obtained an increased power
by increasing the size of the fire-box ; in fact, the power of the

22  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.               [Ch. I.

engine, supposing the power to be absorbed, may be taken
to be directly as the area of the fire-grate, or the quantity of
fuel contained in the fire-box.

  After enumerating the different items--roadway, tun
nels, embankments, viaducts, bridges --which would absorb

the funds of a broad gauge company in the process of

construction, he took into consideration the various ex

pedients suggested by Brunel for effecting transfer of

goods. The loose-box system, experience, he said, had

proved to be a failure.

I· Whilst think the Great Western has obtained no advan
  Itages by the wide gauge, think its introduction has involved

the country in very great inconvenience, because wherever a

meeting of the gauges takes place, it must create an inconve

nience, and a very serious one ; in fact, it is nothing more or less

than tantamount to asking the Great Western or the London

and Birmingham Company to move their passengers at Wolver-

ton ; that is an exaggerated case perhaps, but still it is one
which, if it takes place in the midst of a large traffic, would,
I believe, give canals or another existing mode of communi
Ication a decided advantage over a railway.
                                             stated in my

evidence before the Wolverhampton Committee, that from

Rugby, to which point it is proposed that the wide gauge should

come, the Derbyshire coal-owner, or the Leicestershire, would
inevitably send their coal by canal, in preference to changing
the gauge, because they would have to transfer their coals

there ; it is proposed in order to avoid the actual removal of
the coals, to move them in boxes, and to have loose bodies to

the wagons. Now, that is a system which has been tried over

and over again, and which has failed,* It was tried on the

Liverpool and Manchester line originally. There was a great
coal-pit about 200 or 300 yards from the line of railway; they

wanted to send coals to Liverpool, and small wagons were
placed on the backs of large wagons, and carried to Liverpool ;
that was soon abandoned. Loose boxes were tried at Bolton for

Ithe purpose of leading the coal into the town by horses, without

changing at the station ; they were eventually abandoned.

1845.]  CONTINUATION OF EVIDENCE.  23

 tried the same thing at Canterbury, and we were obliged to: it,
 abandon because sometimes we had loose boxes and we hadit
 no frames, and sometimes we had underframes when we had no
                                      it
 boxes, and we could not fit them in. It almost impossible to
                                     is isI
 make this intelligible to any one who has not come directly in
 contact with the inconvenience of the system. Eather than                      it
 introduce the loose-box system, would be far better to move
 the coals by hand from wagon to wagon, because there would be

an end of it. It also involves this, which felt particularly at

 Canterbury when the body of the wagon attached, and made
 part of, and formed at the same time with, the frame,
 strengthens that frame, and strengthens also the body itself;
but when they are made to separate, they are both of them
weak, and they both get rickety, and they are exceedingly
costly to maintain in repair.

    The continuation of this portion of his evidence went to
show that the evils enlarged upon were not so much
defects from want of good management, but defects from

which the system could not be freed.
    As to the expedients proposed for shifting bodies of

wagons by machinery, he showed that the time required
for their application would render them commercially

impracticable.

   With similar force the witness unfolded the objections

to the double gauge, e. the system which employs both
gauges, by putting down narrow gauge rails within the
broad gauge and to the mixed gauge, or system which
accommodates both broad and narrow carriages, by putting
within the broad gauge single rail at such distance from
the outer rail of the broad gauge that narrow gauge line,

thereby formed.
    His evidence made clear that uniformity of gauge was

imperatively demanded for the transaction of business;
that the expedients proposed for overcoming the discom
forts of break of gauge would scarcely mitigate them
        '

                       ;

                             it a i.

                                           '
                                                             a
                                                                         a

                                                                                                   ; is

24         LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                                        [Ch. I.

and that since an uniform gauge throughout the country

was required, no gauge was so well adapted as the 4 feet 8 1
inches for all varieties of country.

   Uniformity of gauge being the grand object, the following
table* of the lines completed, in progress, and projected, in
1845, will show how strong a case the advocates of the
narrow gauge had for maintaining that in regard to
comparative interests involved, apart from all other con
siderations, the preference ought to be given to their

system.

    Narrow Gauge Railways.                                      Bboad Gauge Railways.             Mlle»

                                                         Milei  Completed : Great "Western,

Completed . . .          1844

........In progress      G14                                    ........Bristol and Exeter, Chel   278
                                                                                                     62
Projected                6918                                      tenham and Great Western
                                                                   (just completed), Bristol      1311
                                                                   and Gloucester . . .
                         9376                                   In progress                       1641

                                                                Projected

           Or, as  .  .  5J                                     To .                                     1

   To strengthen the case of the narrow gauge, on this
ground, it was advanced that already various lines in

England and Scotland (like Mr. Braithwaite's Eastern
Counties') constructed with an intermediate gauge -of 5
feet, had for the sake of uniformity been reduced to

4 feet Scinches. Thus the proposition could never for
an instant be entertained that to please an innovating

minority, an overwhelming majority should alter ar

rangements which they had been at great cost to com

plete.

   In the January of 1846, the Gauge Commissioners made
a report, recommending, --

   * ' Railways : The Gauge Railway Question,' &c. By Wyndham Harding,
with a map. 4th ed.

1846.]  REPORT OF GAUGE COMMISSION.  25

    (1) That the gauge of four feet eight inches and a half be
declared by the legislature to be the gauge to be used in all

public railways now under construction, or hereafter to be con
structed in Great Britain.

   (2) That unless by the consent of the legislature, it should
not be permitted to the directors of any railway company to
alter the gauge of such railway.

   (3) That in order to complete the general chain of narrow
gauge communication from the north of England to the southern

coast, any suitable measure should be promoted to form a
narrow gauge link from Oxford to Eeading, and thence to Basing

stoke, or by any shorter route connecting the proposed Rugby
and Oxford line with the South Western Railway.

   (4) That as any junction to be formed with a broad gauge
line would involve a break of gauge, provided our first recom

mendations to be adopted, great commercial convenience would
be obtained by reducing the gauge of the present broad gauge
lines to the narrow gauge of four feet eight inches and a half ;

and we, therefore, think it desirable that some equitable means
should be found of producing such entire uniformity of gauge,
or of adopting such other course as would admit of the narrow

gauge carriages passing, without interruption or danger, along the

broad gauge line.

    On the appearance of this judicious report the agitation
of the two great parties whom it especially concerned,
and of society at large, was indescribable. Articles and
pamphlets of an acrimony unusual even in party warfare
were published in every quarter ; and the farces and ex
travaganzas of the theatres were full of allusions to the
quarrel. Of the more eccentric literature of the contest,
the ' Dialogues ' of the Gauges ' first published in the
' Eailway Eecord ' may be read with amusement by the

curious.

    Beaten successively on all the engineering points,
Brunel and his party endeavoured to persuade the public
that their interests were concerned in maintaining a spirited

26  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPI1EXSON.      [Cn. L

competition between broad and narrow lines. This extra

ordinary view the engineer put before the Gauge

Commissioners in the following words: --

  I think the spirit of emulation and competition (said Mr.

Brunel before the Gauge Commissioners) kept up between
different railway interests, both as regards the comfort and the
construction of the carriages, and the times and mode of
travelling, will do much more good to the public than that
uniformity of system which has been talked of for the last two
or three years.

   After the publication of the Commissioners' Eeport, this

plausible fallacy was reiterated ; and it was gravely main

tained that the public would be benefited, if railway com

panies (composed of that same public) would lay down rival

roads side by side, and ruin each other by competition.

To this ridiculous proposition Mr. Thornton Hunt re

plied : *--
   It is not possible. There are not enough railways, nor

likely to be enough to create a real competition. For the
most part railways branch off in different directions. Where
they run in somewhat similar directions, the competition would
occur between very few parties. Where parties are so few, so
well-organised, managed by councils possessing so much of a
deliberative character, and where the bad results of competition
would be shown so tangibly, and in such large amounts, a con

Itinuous and injurious struggle for any length of time would be

practicably impossible. ' look upon it,' says Mr. Laing, ' as

inevitable, that if a rival line is made, the two must sooner or

later agree to charge the rate of fares which will be the most

productive.'

   This argument, based on the supposed advantages of

competition, is interesting, as it stands out to mark the

   * ' Unity of the Iron Net Work :  at variance with the true interests of
showing how the last argument for    the public.' By Thornton Hunt,
the break of gauge, competition, is
                                     3rded. Smith, Elder, & Co., Cornhill.

PICTORIAL EVIDENCE.                        27

extreme point to which Brunel was driven from the
ground on which, at the outset of the memorable war of

the gauges, he had taken his position.

    Amongst laughable occurrences that enlivened the

committee rooms during the gauge contest, was a scene
occasioned by parliamentary counsel putting in as evidence,

before the committee on the Southampton and Manchester
Line, a printed picture of troubles consequent on a break

of gauge. The picture was a forcible sketch, that had
appeared a few days before in the pages of the 'Illustrated
London News.' Opposing counsel of course argued
against the production of the work of art as testimony
for the consideration of committee. After much argument
on both sides the chairman decided in favour of receiving
the illustration, which was forthwith put, amidst much
laughter, into the hands of a witness, who was asked if it
was a fair picture of the evils that arose from a break of
gauge. The witness replying in the affirmative, the en
graving was then laid before the committee for inspec
tion.*

    Fortunately for the immediate peace and the permanent
interests of society, the conflict was concluded by legis
lation which in its chief principle accorded with Eobert
Stephenson's views. By 9 & 10 Vict. cap. 57 (An Act for
Eegulating the Gauge of Eailways, August 18, 1846) it was
enacted : --

   That after the passing of this act it shall not be lawful

(except as hereinafter excepted) to construct any railway for the
conveyance of passengers on any gauge other than four feet
eight inches and half an inch, in Great Britain, and five feet three
inches in Ireland. Provided always, that nothing hereinbefore

Vide ' Railway Chronicle,' June 13, 1846.

28  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                 [Ch. I.

contained shall be deemed to forbid the maintenance and repair
of any railway constructed before the passing of this act on any
gauge other than those hereinbefore specified, or to forbid the
laying of new rails on the same gauge on which such railway
is constructed, within the limits of duration authorised by the
several acts under the authority of which such railways are

severally constructed.

   Possibly somewhat at the expense and to the detriment

of the public, sections II. EE. and V. of the same Act

paid full measure of respect to existing broad gauge

interests. There is ground for the opinion that too great

consideration was displayed to the interests of individuals

whose action threatened to be, and already had been

prejudicial to the state. But it must be remembered that

the gauge party was compact, united, and animated with

a determination to fight to the last. Nor was its influence

solely dependent on its spirit and organisation. In the

houses of parliament it numbered many devoted and

powerful adherents, and it had a strong hold on the

opinions of those who, believing in the broad gauge as a

system capable of supplying the public with greater and

easier speeds than the narrow gauge, regarded the

question from a selfish point of view, and placed personal

comfort before commercial utility. Strong, therefore,

within the walls of parliament, and strong without, the

broad gauge party, even at the time of its overthrow,

was to be conciliated. With 9 & 10 Vict. cap. 57, the

gauge question, as far as the general public felt concern

in was set at rest. An important professional question
    it,

                                                            A
however was still to be discussed by engineers.                limit

had been put to the construction of broad gauge lines.

The question now to be considered was -- how best to

introduce the narrow gauge into broad gauge lines, so

1846.]  ANOTHER QUESTION.  29

that the two systems might be worked together, where
break of gauge could not be otherwise avoided ? Ought

two distinct pairs of lines for each gauge to be put down?
or would it be better to use only three rails, one of them

being common to both gauges ? At first sight the choice,

apart from the difference of original expense between
putting down three lines or four lines, might seem un
important. But practical men knew otherwise. Eobert

Stephenson's opinions on these questions were published
in a report.

30  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Cn. 1L

                        CHATTEE II. *

                                         IRON BRIDGES.

    Mr. Stephenson's largo Practice in Iron Bridges -- His Article on
    the Subject in the Encyclopaedia Britannica -- Modern Use of the
    Material -- Early Bridges -- First Iron Arcli Bridges -- Tom Paim-'s
    Bridge -- Full Development of the Iron Arch Bridge -- First Use of
    Wrought Iron -- Suspension Bridges -- Captain Samuel Brown -- Mr.
     Telford -- The Menai Bridge -- Introduction of Railways -- Con
     sequent large Demand for Iron Bridges -- Return to the Form of tho
    simple Beam -- Comparison of the three different Systems of Iron
    Bridges -- Advantages of the Girder System -- Cast-iron Girders --
    Compound Girders -- The Dee Bridge -- Royal Commission on Iron
    Railway Structures -- Introduction of Wrought-iron Girders -- Dif
    ferent Varieties of Girders -- Examples -- The Aire Bridge -- The
    Benha Bridge --Last Work of Mr. Stephenson's Life, Restoration of
     Tom Paine's Bridge.

                    have always formed important works in the

BRIDpGraEcStice of the civil engineer, and there are scarcely

any eminent members of the profession whose names are
not associated with structures of this kind, of greater or less
magnitude. Mr. Stephenson, in the course of his large
railway practice, must have erected vast numbers, but his
name is preeminently connected with three bridges, so
important in their objects and so bold in their design, that
they have acquired for their author a world-wide fame.
These are the Britannia Bridge, carrying the Chester and
Holyhead Eailway over the Straits of Menai, in North

                      * This chapter is contributed by Professor Pole.

1834.J     IRON BRIDGES.                                        31

Wales; the High Level Bridge, for road and railway, across

the Tyne at Newcastle ; and the great Victoria Bridge over

the St. Lawrence in Canada. It is proposed to give a

brief account of each of these structures; but the de

scription of their peculiarities will be simplified by

making some general preliminary remarks on bridge

building in iron--a material which now enters so largely
into the practice of the modern engineer. This will also

give the opportunity of referring to some other bridge

works of Mr. Stephenson's, which afford interesting and

instructive subjects for comment.

   In this task it happens that we have an aid peculiarly

appropriate and useful. The subject is one in which Mr.
Stephenson took so great an interest, that he was induced, '

in the midst of his heavy professional engagements, to

write the article ' Iron Bridges ' for the eighth edition of

the ' Encyclopaedia Britannica.' The essay
           ;                                             of course,

limited in its scope, andit
                         it is

                                                    is,
                                                             a
                                 somewhat damaged by

typographical errors but still treats the subject in its

historical, theoretical, and practical bearings in very

clear and able manner, and with as much fullness as the

space at the author's disposal would permit. We are for
tunate therefore in being enabled to base our account of

this subject on data of his own compiling, and frequently

to give his own words.

is    The exclusive use of iron in the construction of bridges
   '
    of modern' date, though no other material so peculiarly
                           ;

                                                     is
adapted to such purpose its use was, however, long
        a

delayed, not so much because its advantages were not

appreciated, as from the great cost, and even impossibility, of

obtaining iron in large masses.  It      now most extensively

                                     is

employed in bridge construction, and though in elegance or

32                                                               LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                             [Ch. II.

durability it cannot compete with stone, where the span is

moderate, yet there are numberless cases where its adoption
has been the means of solving many of the great problems of
modern engineering. Its use has more especially become an
absolute necessity in railway-bridge construction, where
headway is so frequently of paramount importance, and
where rapidity of execution is often a more necessary con
sideration than even economy or durability ; while the de
fective foundations that have so often to be contended with,

render the lightness, the independent strength, and the
pliable character of iron of the utmost value for such

structures.'

a                                                                The early attempts at forming a platform or bridge overit it
        is,                                                  an open space must have been by means of beams ;
                                                             that by pieces of timber, or some other material suffi           is
                is                                                                                                                 a; a
                             a                               ciently long to stretch from one side to the other, and
                                                             strong enough to carry the load required. But both the
                                                            ;length and strength of such contrivances must have been
                                                             naturally very limited and as the building arts advanced,
                                                             it
                                                                most important step was gained in the invention of the
                                                             arch, by which far greater span could be covered and
                                                             far greater weight supported, than by the simple beam.
                                                             The arch of very ancient date, having been traced back
                                                             in Egyptian antiquities to many centuries before the
                                                             Christian era. The Eomans took advantage of with
                                                             great zeal and skill for the erection of bridges in vast
                                                             numbers, and of large size and great constructive merit
                                                             and has been used for the same purpose in all succeeding
                                                             times down to the present day, wherever masonry has been
                                                             the material employed for the structure. Yet
                                                             remarkable fact, that the development of the use of the

1719-79.]               IEON BRIDGES.  33

more modern material, iron, for the purpose of bridge

building, has just reversed this order of things. Iron

bridges were first made by imitating the more advanced

form of structure, the masonry arch, and for a long period

none but arched bridges were constructed in iron ; but

with the increase of knowledge in the use of the material,

and with the attainment of greater skill in its manufacture,

the design of the structures reverted to the primitive form

of the beam, in which by far the great majority of iron

bridges, including those of the most colossal dimensions,

are now made.

The history of iron bridges commences in the 16th

century, when such structures were first proposed in

some Italian works. In 1719 the subject was again

revived by Dr. Desaguliers, the well-known mechanical

philosopher, but nothing like an attempt at construction
was made till 1755, when an iron bridge was proposed

and partly manufactured at Lyons ; but the design was

subsequently abandoned from motives of economy, and a

timber bridge was substituted.

The credit of erecting the first iron bridge belongs to

this country, the work having been done immediately after

the time when, by the impulse given to the iron manu

facture by smelting with coke, cast iron had superseded

timber in numerous details of mechanical construction.

This bridge, erected in 1779, was a cast-iron semicircular,

arch of 100 feet span across the Severn at Coalbrook-

dale, a work which still stands, and which, considering

that the manipulation of the material was then completely

in its infancy, evinces a boldness and skill highly credit

able to its designers.

Shortly after this, some propositions for an extension

VOL. II.                D

34  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPI1ENSON.       [Ch. II.

of the principle were made by French engineers, but not
one was carried into execution.

   In 1794 two small iron bridges were erected in
Germany, but the principle became much further deve
loped in England before it was taken up in earnest in
any other country. The celebrated Mr. Telford was one
of the first to take advantage of the new material, and in
1796 he erected an iron bridge with a single arch of 130
feet span, also over the Severn, a little below Shrewsbury.
In the same year, however, was finished a much larger
iron bridge over the Wear near Sunderland, which Mr.
Stephenson characterises as one of the boldest examples
of arch construction in existence. It is also very re

markable in its paternity and history, its author being no
other than the well-known Tom Paine, of sceptical and
republican notoriety. This singular being, having a great
aptitude for mechanics, proposed in 1790 to construct
cast-iron arches, in what was then a novel manner, namely,
of framed open panels in the form of voussoirs; and with

characteristic energy he put his views to the test by making
an experimental arch of 88^ feet span, which was ex

hibited at Paddington, and was completely successful. It

happened that in the same year a committee was ap
pointed for investigating the inconvenient and dangerous
state of the ancient ferry in the middle of the harbour
at Wearmouth ; and as it was decided that a bridge
should be built of cast iron, the ideas of Paine were

adopted in its design, and part of the ironwork of his
 experimental arch was used in its construction. * The

   * Mr. Murray, the engineer of the  ceeded in identifying in it the par-
Sunderland Dock, who has had oc-      ticular portion of ironwork here
casion to examine this bridge very    referred to, which differs in manu-
carefully, believes that he has sue-  facture from the rest.

1801-32.]  IEON BRIDGES.  35

 span of this bridge, which is in one segmental arch, is

 no less than 236 feet, only 4 feet less than the centre arch
 of Southwark Bridge, the largest in existence, and yet
it contains only about one-fifth the weight of iron !

   If (says Mr. Stephenson) we are to consider Paine as its

 author, his daring in engineering certainly does full
justice to the fervour of his political career ; for, successful
as the result has undoubtedly proved, want of experience
and consequent ignorance of the risk could have alone
induced so bold an experiment ; and we are led rather to
wonder at, than to admire, a structure which, as regards
its proportions and its small quantity of material, will
probably remain unrivalled.

    To complete the singular history of this bridge, it was
sold in 1816, by a lottery, for £30,000, £3000 more than

its original cost twenty years before ; and certain alter
ations to it which will be described hereafter, formed the
last work of Eobert Stephenson's engineering career.

    In 1801 a remarkable design was given in by Messrs.
Telford and Douglas for replacing London Bridge by a
single cast-iron arch of 600 feet span ; and the works
were even put in hand ; but the scheme was afterwards
abandoned on account of the great and inconvenient rise
that would be required in the approaches.

   Iron bridges now began to be generally adopted. In
1802 a large arch of 180 feet span was erected over

the Thames at Staines, by the same engineers and on the
same plan as the Sunderland Bridge. The abutments were
of insufficient strength, and the bridge subsequently re
quired supporting ; but it remained till the erection of the
handsome stone structure on a neighbouring site by Messrs.
Eennie in 1832, when it was taken down.

                                                                  D2

:;<;  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. EL

   Iron bridges soon afterwards found their way into
France. The Pont du Louvre, erected in 1803, was the

first, and this was followed in succeeding years by the
Pont d'Austerlitz and others, in Paris and in other parts

of the country. In England they began to multiply fast.
In 1816 Vauxhall Bridge was opened, and three years

afterwards Southwark Bridge, which Mr. Stephenson
declares stands confessedly unrivalled as an example of
the cast-iron arch bridge, whether as regards its colossal
proportions, its architectural effect, or the general sim
plicity and massive character of its details. The central
arch is 240 feet span, the largest in the world ; and
the two side arches are each 210 feet. The bridge cost
£800,000, and the quantity of iron in it is nearly 6000

tons.

   At that time, therefore, the first form of iron bridge,

that of the arch, may be considered as having arrived at
its full development. Great numbers have been con
structed in this and other countries, but there is nothing
connected with them that needs further notice here.

    Meanwhile, in the forty years that had elapsed since
the first introduction of the iron bridge, great advance
ment had taken place in the manufacture of iron generally,
and particularly in that of wrought iron. Cast iron had
been eminently suitable for the arch bridge, as being
specially adapted for resisting the strain to which arches
were exposed, namely, direct compression or crushing.
But to the use both of this form and of this material

there was a necessary limit, from the massive construc
tion and consequent great weight necessary, when em

ployed for very large spans.

1819-30.]              IRON BRIDGES.                       37

    Wrought iron, by its greater tenacity and less liability
to fracture, offered an extension of the limit of size possible

for iron bridges; It was distinguished from cast iron by

its property of withstanding a great tensile strain with a

light weight of material, a property very valuable for

bridge construction ; the only problem being so to design
the structure as to bring the material under this kind of

strain. Hence arose a new construction of bridge, alto

gether differing from the arch, namely, the suspension
bridge ; the principle of which was, that the strain of the
load was thrown upon a chain, keeping it in a constant

state of tension, instead of upon an arch, in a constant

state of compression.

The idea of forming a communication between oppo

site shores of a ravine or river, by suspending ropes

acrossa       and attaching roadway thereto,  of great
                          a                 it
         it,
antiquity, bridges of this description having existed inis
                                                        a
China, and indeed among less civilized nations, from

time immemorial.

But the suspension bridge formed of iron chains, to

the construction of which the resources of modern art and

science have been applied, of comparatively recent date.
                          is
                             is
The first of which there any account in England, or in

deed in Europe, was small foot bridge erected in 1741
                       a

across the Tees, near Middleton, in Durham, for the use

of the miners. It was 70 feet long and 60 feet above

the river, the roadway being feet wide, of planking,2
with handrail on each side but no further particulars
                                 ;

are recorded as to its details, and probably was very

primitive affair.

   In the commencement of the present century, however,

the subject was taken up by an energetic naval officer,

38        LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. II.

Captain Samuel Brown, who appears to have had a

knowledge of iron-work and of general construction worthy

of an engineer of the present day. It was he who first

introduced into the naval service the use of chain cables ;

and for this and his other services to the country, among

which his part in the introduction and improvement of

the suspension bridge was not the least important, he

was knighted by the Queen in 1838.

   Captain Brown's great improvement was the adoption
of chains made of long iron bars instead of common link

cables, which had been used up to that time. In 1813

he constructed a large model of a bridge on this plan,

and in July 1817 he took out a patent for his in

vention.

    The first bridge actually erected by him, and indeed the

first suspension bridge ever constructed of much engineer

ing pretensions, was the Union Bridge across the Tweed,

five miles above Berwick, which was begun in August

1819 and opened in July 1820. It was a large bridge,

being 450 feet span and having 30 feet deflection of

chain. The roadway was 18 feet wide, and the chains
were composed of link bars 15 feet long.

    Captain Brown in following years also erected several

other large structures on the same principle, among which,
perhaps, the one best known is the chain pier at Brighton,

opened in 1823.
   In the meantime Mr. Telford was led to see the ad

vantage of the suspension principle.  About 1814 he

had been requested to report on the practicability of

forming a bridge at Euncorn over the Mersey. The

plan of bar chains does not seem to have been then

known to him, but he entered into a series of investiga

1819-30.]          IRON BRIDGES.     39

tions and experiments to test the capabilities of the

suspension principle generally, and its adaptability for

the object he had in view. The strength of iron was not

at that time so well determined as it is now, and one of

Mr. Telford's objects was to ascertain, by direct experi

ment, the tensile power of the material when applied in

the form of a suspended chain.    t

Nothing came of this proposition at the time, but Mr.

Telford treasured up the knowledge he had gained, and

a few years afterwards he had the opportunity of bringing

it into practical application.
   In 1819 he commenced the celebrated bridge over the

Menai Straits, which magnificent work would, if he had

done nothing else, have itself sufficed to render his

name immortal. It was finished and opened in 1826,

and its success made the principle popular; suspension

bridges of large magnitude having since become very

common.

About the year 1830, therefore, there were two great

classes of iron bridges in use ; the cast-iron arch bridge,

heavy and of limited size, but rigid and strong ; and the

wrought-iron suspension bridge, lighter and much more
capable of large expansion, but slender and less steady.
Each kind had been brought to a state of great perfection,

but the number of bridges built was not great, and the

completion of a single large structure of the kind was an

event in history.

   But now arrived an epoch in civil engineering, which at
once enlarged tenfold its sphere of action, and gave the
application of iron for bridge purposes an entirely new
direction. This was the introduction of railways.

                                                             a.

40  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. II.

   Hitherto, bridges had been applied generally to common

roads ; if the arch was adopted, inclined approaches were

of small importance ; and in determining the rise of his

arch, the engineer selected any headway he thought proper,
while every other consideration was likewise made sub
sidiary to the problem of constructing the bridge itself.

If the suspension bridge was chosen for the purpose, the

passing load was light, and its speed of transit could be

easily reduced to suit the comparatively unstable nature
of the structure.

    But on the introduction of railways, hundreds of roads,
rivers, and valleys had at once to be spanned with bridges
perfectly level, and of a strength and rigidity sufficient to
allow the dashing across of the ponderous and swift loco
motive, instead of the light coach or the quiet team.
Moreover, a series of new conditions arose for these bridges,
which complicated the problem still more. Their time of

construction was an important element ; so was economy
of their first cost ; while every conceivable difficulty arose
from their limited headway, their bad foundations, their
 oblique directions, their gigantic dimensions, and the
 necessity of bridging over navigable waters or crowded
 thoroughfares without interfering with the traffic upon
 them. The number of bridges required also became some
 thing quite unprecedented ; Mr. Stephenson estimated
 that up to 1856 at least twenty-five thousand railway
 bridges must have been built in the United Kingdom
 alone.

     The simple arch of masonry or brickwork was ap
 plied wherever it was practicable, but in many situa
 tions it was inapplicable, and the engineer, to whom
 the use of iron was now becoming every day more fami

1830.]  IRON BRIDGES.  41

liar, naturally turned to this material to supply the desi

deratum.

   Of the two kinds of iron structures then in vogue, one,
the suspension bridge, was, from its want of stability, quite
out of the question ; but the other, the iron arch, was
favourable in certain situations, where its well understood

qualities of rigidity and strength warranted its adoption.
Some of the most elegant and efficient railway bridges
have been erected on this plan. The London and Bir
mingham and other early railways have several of this
kind, and it is still used in situations where appearance is
nf importance, as the arch bridge may generally be made

a handsomer structure than any other rigid form.

   It was found, however, that the cast-iron arch bridge,

from its great weight, and the small span of which it was
capable within reasonable limits of cost, was but of com
paratively limited application to railway requirements :
hence it became necessary to discover some other kind
of iron structure more generally suitable, and happily
this was found by reverting to the earliest form of all,
the primitive straight beam. This would seem, no
doubt, a retrograde step from the elaborate and elegant
structures on which so much scientific investigation and
mechanical skill had been bestowed ; but the retrogres
sion was only apparent, for no sooner had the beam been
established as the normal model for railway bridges, than
the attention of scientific and practical men was at once
called to its development, and under this stimulus it
soon outgrew its original simple form and dimensions.
Improvements and extensions of the principle were gra
dually introduced, and the simple beam is now scarcely
to be recognised as the parent of the many magnificent

42  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                       [Ch. II.

structures which, far exceeding the largest arches in
dimensions, have become our most prominent monu
ments of engineering enterprise and skill. Still, however,
we cannot fail to be struck with the curious reverse

order of progress in the history of iron bridges, when we
find that the appliances resulting from ages of improve
ment have been rejected, to adopt a principle identical
with the earliest attempt of the uncivilized savage.

    It may be well here to explain the principal points of

difference between the three different systems of bridges

above referred to, and to show on what grounds one of

them alone has proved so specially applicable to railway

purposes.' When any structure is employed for carrying

weight over an open space, the laws of mechanics require
that the vertical forces due to the gravity of the load

should produce strains or thrusts in other directions more

nearly approaching to the horizontal. In an arch, the

essence of which is that it should curve downwards on

each side from the crown, a compressive strain is pro

duced along the whole line of the curve, which, operating

at its extremities, tends to thrust the abutments outwards ;

and this thrust must be efficiently resisted by massive

solidity and strength of the abutments, to keep the bridge

in equilibrium.                                      The

   In a suspension bridge, this effect is reversed.

essence of the structure is that the suspending chain must

curve upwards on each side from the centre, and must

sustain along its whole length a tensile strain, which tends

to draw the ends inwards ; and this is usually provided
against by securing the ends of the chain firmly into the

ground on each side.

1830.]    IRON BRIDGES.                                               43

   Now the beam is a sort of compound of these two

principles. It is usually straight, neither turning down

wards at the ends like the arch, nor upwards like the

suspension chain; but it comprehends within itself the
characters of both as regards the strains upon it ; for

the effect of the load is to divide, in principle, the beam

into two longitudinal parts throughout its whole length ;

the upper part bearing a horizontal strain of compres

sion, like the arch, and the lower a horizontal tensile

strain, like the chain ; these two strains being, moreover,

as an essential condition of the equilibrium, equal and

contrary to each other. Hence the strength of a beam

is entirely self-contained, and all its horizontal forces are

perfectly self-equilibrated ; the consequence of which                is,

that no resisting power whatever     is                            required at the
                                           is
abutments or ends, further than necessary to support

the vertical pressure of the beam and its load, condition
                                                                   a

capable of the simplest and easiest application. From
these principles will be seen that the advantages of
          it
                         it

                                 is
the beam, or girder, as              also called, for railway

bridges consist in five great properties.

      It supersedes the chain by its firmness and rigidity,
2. 1.
being subject only to slight deflection under its load,is
          a

                     it
which of no practical disadvantage.

        Compared with the arch has the great advantage

of straightness, not requiring to be curved downwards at

the ends, and so not only making level road above, but
a
      3.

            is
               it

                         a
                              a

                                                                a

                                              It
also leaving uniform height of headway underneath,

which often vital necessity.                                       will be seen here

after that was this condition that determined the use of

beam for the Britannia Bridge.

        As the beam requires no preparations in the

44  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPIIEXSON.  [Ch. II.

abutments for resisting any horizontal or oblique thrust,
the construction of these parts of the bridge, particularly
as regards their foundations, is rendered very much
simpler, more expeditious, and less costly.

   4. The ironwork required for a beam is generally very
much less in weight than for an arch of the same span

and strength.

   5. The self-contained strength of the beam, and its
capability of being fixed in many cases without scaffolding,
much facilitate its erection'; not only as saving cost and
time, but also in avoiding interference with navigation
or traffic below.

    The earliest iron beams of which any account is
preserved were used by Messrs. Boulton & Watt in
building a cotton mill at Manchester in the year 1800;
and as soon as confidence became established in the

material, and the improvements in the manufacture of iron
enabled large castings of this description to be made with

tolerable certainty as to quality, and at reasonable price,
iron beams soon began to supersede the use of timber

for many building purposes, as being much less liable to
decay, or to destruction by fire.

   In 1822 Tredgold wrote his celebrated 'Practical

Essay on the Strength of Cast-Iron,' the principal object of
which was to define the theoretical laws that governed
the construction of iron beams, and to put them into such

a shape as should be useful to the practical mechanic and

builder. Two or three years afterwards cast-iron girders

of 50 feet span, the largest then constructed, were erected
by Mr. Eastrick at the British Museum.

  It was natural that the first engineer who had railways

1830.]  IRON BRIDGES.  45

of any importance to make, should first find out the
applicability of the beam to railway-bridge construction ;
and accordingly the first bridges of this kind were erected
by George Stephenson about the year 1830 on the

Manchester and Liverpool Eailway.
    The girders used for this purpose were made entirely

of cast-iron, in fact, were simple cast-iron beams, similar
to those before used for other purposes ; but as the object

they had to serve soon became much more important,
and the spans required much larger, more attention was
called to the principles of their construction both from a
theoretical and practical point of view.

    The theoretical part was taken up by Mr. Eaton
Hodgkinson soon after the erection of the first girder-
bridges, and he corrected some errors that had been
entertained as to beams of cast-iron, and established

greatly improved rules for their proportions, by which
their strength was much increased and their cost greatly

reduced.

   In a practical point of view the attention of engineers

was soon drawn to the uncertainty and weakness of cast-
iron, when exposed to a tensile strain in the lower flange
of the girder. The proper function of cast-iron had been
developed in the arch, namely, to withstand compression ;
for a strain in the contrary direction it was peculiarly
unfitted, not only by its want of cohesive strength, but
still more from the almost inevitable existence, in all

large castings, of hidden flaws and defects. Little benefit
was obtained by increase of thickness, for the treacherous
character of the material increased rapidly with the mass
in which it was cast; and the difficulty of uniting cast-iron
rendered impracticable the attempt to build up such

46  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. II.

girders of separate castings, so that the new girder-
bridges were limited in their dimensions to very moderate

spans.

   In order to meet this difficulty the girders were in some

cases made double, so as to diminish the dangerous
influence of possible unsoundness ; but still an obvious
necessity arose for some new combinations of the mate
rial which should meet the desired end with greater

aptitude.

    The first important contrivance springing out of the
necessities of railway bridges was a modification of
the cast-iron arch. The chief obstacle to the use of the

ordinary arch was the practical difficulty of meeting the
thrust at the abutments, and of obtaining the requisite
stability in the foundations; a difficulty much enhanced
by the diminution of rise or versed sine which the
use of iron allowed, giving a consequent augmentation of
the thrust, and a more unmanageable direction of its
action. To meet this difficulty, in cases where headway
was not of importance, the device was hit upon of
connecting the two ends of the arch together by a wrought-
iron tie rod, which, by taking upon itself a horizontal
tension, deprived the ends of the arch of the tendency to
thrust outwards, and so relieved the abutments of all

except vertical pressure. The structure thus became
essentially a girder, as it contained within itself the perfect
equilibration of all its horizontal strains; and as the form
resembled that of a bow, having the tie rod for a strintr.
it was called the Bowstring Girder.

   Another advantage followed from this construction. It

was soon found that by suspending the tie rod strongly

1830.]  IRON BRIDGES.  47

from the arch, it might be made to carry the rails at a
lower level ; the depth of the girder being thus above the
roadway instead of below it ; by which the attainment of
one of the greatest and most troublesome requirements
of railway bridges, namely headway underneath, was

greatly facilitated.
    The earliest railway bridge on this plan was designed

by Mr. Eobert Stephenson in 1834, and erected in 1835
or 1836, to carry the London and Birmingham Eailway
over the Grand Junction Canal near Weedon. This kind

of structure has since been much used, and the finest

example of it is the High Level Bridge at Newcastle-on-
Tyne, of which a more complete account will be given

hereafter. v

    But this 'construction was expensive and cumbrous ;
 and attention became again turned towards the improve
ment of the simple cast-iron girder. The most prominent
 defect of this consisted, as already stated, in the weak
ness of the lower flange ; and the most natural attempt
to remedy the evil was by strengthening it with wrought-
iron rods, so arranged as to take the tension upon them

 selves, and thus relieve the more defective cast metal from

 the tensile strain which it was so little able to bear.

 The wrought-iron rods were attached by screws at each
 extremity of the girder to its upper flange, and at the
 centre were brought down below the bottom flanges, being
 then tightened up by the screws to such a degree of
 tension as might be thought desirable. The girder was
 thus a compound one, of cast and wrought-iron together,
 and from the peculiar trussing up of the wrought-iron

rods it was called the Trussed Girder. Such a beam, if

 made with due attention to the strains, was evidently less

48  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPIIENSON.                             [Ch. II.

 liable to accident than the simple casting, and was capableaa
of application to much larger spans.it,                                  is

    The first trussed compound girder, of 60 feet span, was is
erected about 1839 by Mr. Bidder, in conjunction with
Mr. Stephenson, for carrying the Cambridge branch of
the Great Eastern Eailway (then called the Northern and
Eastern) over the Eiver Lea near Tottenham ; others fol
lowed on the same and other lines, one of the best known

 being that over the Minories, on the Blackwall Eailway.
 The plan was beginning to be somewhat extensively
 adopted in railway practice when an occurrence took
place which at once checked its use, and which, from Mr.
 Stephenson's connection with must be noticed at some
length. This was the memorable and fatal accident
that occurred through the failure of the bridge at

Chester, in May 1847.
    The Chester and Holyhead Eailway crosses the Eiver

Dee immediately after leaving Chester, and from the
Chester station to little beyond the crossing the line

also used, under an agreement, by the Chester and
Shrewsbury Company, who, after running over this por
tion of railway, diverge to the westward by line of
their own.

    The Dee Bridge, forming part of the works of the
Holyhead line, was designed by Mr. Eobert Stephenson,
their engineer. The width of the river at this point

about 250 feet, and the railway elevated nearly 40 feet
above low water. The bridge was originally intended to
consist of five brick arches, for which the piling was
actually commenced but apprehensions as to the foun

dations caused the engineer to change his design, and to

substitute bridge of iron girders, altering the number of
    a
                          ;
                                          is

1847.]              IRON BRIDGES.  49

openings from five to three, and increasing their spans

accordingly. The bridge was considerably askew, forming

an angle of 51° with the river, or 39° with the perpen

dicular crossing line ; and the length of the girders was

98 feet clear span. There were four main girders to each
span, twelve in all.

The girders were on the principle above described, i. e.

cast-iron trussed with wrought-iron tension bars. Each

was made in three lengths, bolted together, and was

3 feet 9 inches deep, or about one-twenty-sixth of the span,

having flanges at the top and bottom. The trussing or

tension rods, placed on each side, formed a Chain of three
long links ; the middle link horizontal, and placed about

the level of the bottom of the cast-iron girder ; the two

outside links rising up obliquely towards their ends, which

stood at a height of about four feet above the top of the

girder, and were bolted to large shoulders or bosses, pro

jecting upwards above its top edge. The lower parts

of these chains were caused, by means of screws, to

press upwards against the cast-iron girders, and so to afford

it support by suspension, the links forming essentially

suspension chains.

The girders were probably designed in 1845 or early in

1846. In September of the latter year one line of the
bridge was passable ; on October 20 it was examined

and approved by the Government inspector, and imme
diately afterwards it was opened for traffic, not by the

Holyhead Company, to whom it belonged, but by the

Shrewsbury Company, who were the first ready to use

the bridge for public traffic. The Holyhead line was not

opened till some time after the accident. From the time

of the opening, the bridge was constantly used, not

VOL. II.            E

50  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. II.

only for Shrewsbury passengers, but also for heavy trains
of materials for both lines ; but up to the day of the
accident, May 24, 1847, nothing occurred to attract

attention. It happened that about this time one of the

Great Western bridges had been burnt down by cinders
from an engine, and alarmed by this disaster, the
authorities of the Chester Eailway had laid down on the
Dee Bridge about 18 tons of broken stone as a protection
to its wooden platform. This was done on the afternoon of

the day in question, and the first train that traversed the

bridge afterwards was the fatal one. Leaving Chester,

the engine passed safely over the first and centre openings,

but when it arrived about the middle of the third opening,
the left-hand or southern girder broke into three pieces,
and the carriages fell into the river, at 36 feet below.
Five people were killed, and all in the train more or less
injured, except the driver; the engine, which ran on

beyond the fracture, being the only vehicle that remained

on the line.

    This accident made naturally a great sensation, not only
from the gravity of the casualty, but from the importance

of the consequences to railway engineering. It was felt

that the bridge was upon its trial, and as it was soon
found that nothing was defective in the manufacture of
the ironwork or the quality of the material, the -investi

gation became directed to the principle of the girder, and
to the question whether the strength of beams of this

description could be depended on.

    The enquiry before the coroner was a very lengthened

one. A great deal of engineering evidence was brought

forward ; two referees, Mr. James Walker, civil engineer,
and Captain Simmons, E.E., being also appointed by the

Government to investigate the matter.

1847.]  IRON BRIDGES.             51

    Mr. Stephenson was naturally looked to for his opinion,
which he gave in a report addressed to the Eailway

Directors, and subsequently enlarged upon in oral evidence

before the coroner. He stated that a few hours before

the accident, on his way to Bangor, he had narrowly in

spected every part of the bridge, and saw nothing to

indicate weakness or imperfection. He confidently con

cluded that every part was firm and sufficient, a conclusion

in which he conceived he was justified by the fact of the

Chester and Shrewsbury traffic having been uninterruptedly

carried on from October to May. He had examined

carefully the appearances after the accident, and could

arrive at no other conclusion than that the fracture of the

girder arose, not from inability to support the weight,

but from a violent blow given by the tender, which he

conceived to have got off the rails, probably from the

fracture of one of the wheels, while passing the bridge.

Mr. Stephenson had full confidence in the proper strength

of the bridge, in which he was confirmed by an extensive

experience in the combination and use of similar struc

tures, tried under circumstances that demonstrated their

capabilities to meet all the ordinary contingencies of rail
way traffic. An objection had been made that the wrought-

iron tension rods did not act well in concert with the

rigid cast-iron girder; but he had well considered this, and

had had experiments made which had satisfied him there
Ifwas no force in the objection.
                                  the tension rods were

properly screwed up, they would bear the whole strain

from the weight passing over the bridge, and would thus

take the place of the cast-iron girder, and that was what
he sought most to rely upon. He did not maintain that

the two principles could be brought into strict union at

        e2

52  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. II.

 one and the same time, but he urged that they might
 mutually aid each other. Mr. Stephenson added that he
 had erected, in twenty years, more iron bridges than any
 other member of the profession, being more partial to them,
and this was the first failure he had had, large or sinalL

    Mr. Locke and Mr. Viguoles supported the opinion of
 Mr. Stephenson that the fracture arose by a blow, and
 that the girder was sufficiently strong. Mr. Locke did
 not, however, like iron bridges, preferring those of brick
 or stone.

    Mr. Eobertson, the engineer of the Chester and Shrews
 bury line, reported to his Directors his conclusion that the
 girder broke in the middle from its weakness to resist the
strain, increased by the laying on of the extra ballast im

mediately before.
    The referees appointed by Government made their

report on June 15, 1847. After stating the facts and
describing the bridge, they considered the strain of the
girder and the action of its parts, the effect of tempera
ture, of oscillation, &c, and summed up their opinion,

that though the bridge was of sufficient strength if the

cast and wrought-iron were supposed to act together,
each taking its equal proportion of the strain, yet neither,
separately, was sufficient for perfect stability ; and that
there was great difficulty in ensuring the joint action.
They did not agree in Mr. Stephenson's view that the

fracture was caused by a blow.
   This report was communicated to the coroner's jury the

last day of their sitting, and seems to have guided them
in their decision. They gave a verdict, through Mr. E.
Walker, their foreman, of accidental death ; adding, how
ever, that they were of opinion the girder broke from

1847.]  IRON BRIDGES.  53

being made of a strength insufficient to bear the pressure
of quick trains passing over it ; that they considered the
remainder of the bridge unsafe ; and that for the security
of the public, they recommended a Government enquiry
as to the safety of such bridges in general.

   The propriety of this verdict was questioned at the
time, but it must be recollected that at that period the
nature of the strains in compound girders was very little

understood, and therefore we may be quite prepared to
admit that the girder may have been imperfect in design
without in the least disparaging Mr. Stephenson's credit as

an engineer.
   Indeed, we cannot offer a better description of the

defects of this kind of girder than is given by Mr.

Stephenson himself in his Essay of 1859. He says :--

   The determination of the strength of such girders is a diffi
cult task. They are, in fact, compound girders, formed by
combining the truss with the simple girder, the upper flange
doing duty as a compression bar in both systems, and being

thus subjected to two independent strains. It is evident, there
fore, that if the upper flange is simply proportioned to its

duty, as the top flange of the simple girder, it will be of insuffi

cient strength for its additional duties as part of the truss. It

has been argued that from the perfect union of the top flange
with the vertical rib, a considerable portion of the whole girder

might be taken as forming part of the truss. It is, however,

evidently impossible by calculation'; to Jsay Iio^far su<?h assist
ance may be relied on; and" a 'still VgrlfeatSr, objection exists in
the fact that such girders; 'cnhsist of ..t}vt>Jsystems, the ultimate
deflections of which are utterly diffei^ptj', the girder.,'. for in
stance, may be broken before the truss attains half its ultimate
deflection or has done half its duty. The objection to this
girder is common to all girders in which two independent
systems are attempted to be blended ; and, as a general prin
ciple, all such arrangements should be avoided.

54  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. II.

   It is useless (adds Mr. Stephenson) to say more on the subject

of this form of girder, as since the adoption of wrought-iron
for girders they have been entirely superseded ; they were de
signed when no other means existed of obtaining iron girders
of great span, and the melancholy accident which occurred at
Chester is the only existing instance of their failure.

    Mr. Stephenson, in his evidence before the Iron Railway
Structure Commission,* further explained the objection to
the design of these girders, which, in the more advanced

state of our present knowledge, is clearly perceived to be
the want of a due provision for withstanding the inward
thrust of the ends of the wrought-iron ties. The bolts to

which the tie bars (which acted, in fact, as suspension
chains) were attached, were elevated some four feet above
the general level of the top of the cast-iron girder, and
no direct solid member for resisting the compressive strain
existed between them. The cast-iron girder itself, being of
such a small depth in proportion to the length, was very
weak, and, as Mr. Stephenson stated, the principal reliance
was on the wrought-iron bars ; but when the heavy
strain came upon these, tending, as in a suspension bridge,
to draw their ends inwards, nothing existed sufficiently

strong to keep them apart, and consequently acting with
a strong leverage and in a most trying manner upon
the top flange of the girder, they compressed it beyond
its strength,: andTbrok'e ;irj tharoiigh. That this was the
true explanation* of ' the failure* is now clear from the
form erf. irhEitwo: fractures, tstkich (although this does

not se'em'tb 'have been noticed at the time) are iden
tically of the description peculiar to the case where the

    * Questions 832, 881, 894.

1847.]  IEON BRIDGES.                                                 55

 upper flange of a beam is broken by a compressive
 strain beyond its resisting power.*

     Mr. Stephenson on discovering this defect at once took
 measures to provide against it in other girders on this
 plan, by adding properly shaped compression pieces of
 cast-iron to the top of every girder, so as to fill in, solidly
 and strongly, the space formerly open between the ends
 of the ties ; and the bridges thus strengthened have never
 shown any signs of failure.

     The Dee Bridge was altered by having inclined struts,

 bearing against the masonry, placed under each girder,
 so as to afford support in the middle ; and other bridges,
 made about the same time, were strengthened in like

 manner.

    The last large girders on this principle were some of
 96 feet span, made under Mr. Stephenson's directions, in
1847, for the Florence and Leghorn Eailway, crossing the
Arno, and in these the proper improvements were intro
duced in the original design.

    The matter, however, did not stop here. The Govern
ment Commissioners of Eailways, on receiving the report
of the two engineers to whom they referred the investi
gation of the accident, became alarmed about the iron
bridges used on railways generally. On June 23, 1847,
they addressed a circular to the secretaries of the differ
ent companies, requesting a return to be made of the
iron bridges on all lines then working or constructing,
giving their dimensions and particulars of their construc-

    * Compare the sketches in the  in Hodgkinson's edition of 'Tred-
                                   gold on Cast Iron,' 1846, p. 429.
Report of the Commissioners of
Railways, 1848, p. 110, with that

56  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                  [Ch. II.

tion ; and expressing a hope that wherever the security
of such structures was at all doubtful, the companies would
take measures to add to their stability, and in the mean
time would direct the speed of the trains to be reduced in

passing. A few days afterwards they published a minute,

to the effect that they repudiated all responsibility for the
strength of iron structures which had been inspected and
passed by their officers, inasmuch as these gentlemen had
only the opportunity of a superficial observation, and no

sufficient control over the design.             The
   Another matter of public interest followed.

Eailway Commissioners, acting on the suggestion of the
coroner's jury, passed a minute calling the attention of
the Government to the uncertainty which existed respecting
the conditions to be complied with in employing iron in
engineering works, and in particular to bridges which
had to be traversed by loads of extraordinary weight with

great velocity. They had reason to believe, they said,
that much difference of opinion existed among the most
eminent engineers of the time as to the proper form and
dimensions to be given to railway girders of iron for bridge
purposes ; and they considered it desirable that the sub

ject should be thoroughly investigated by a Commission,
to be composed of scientific men and practical engineers,
who should be appointed by Government, and should be

requested to arrive at such principles, and to form such

rules, as might enable the engineer and the mechanic

to apply the metal with confidence in their respective

spheres.
   The Commission was appointed by Eoyal Warrant on

August 27, 1847, and consisted of Lord Wrottesley, Pro
fessor Willis, Captain James, E.E., Mr. George Eennie,

1847.]  IRON BRIDGES.                     57

Mr. (afterwards Sir) William Cubitt, and Mr. Eaton
Hoclgkinson, with Captain Douglas Galton, E. E., for

secretary. They spent nearly a year in examining wit

nesses, making theoretical investigations, trying expe
riments, and collecting a great mass of information on
the subject, which was afterwards published in a Blue Book
of 435 pages, accompanied by a large collection of litho

graphed plans.
   Mr. Stephenson was one of the principal witnesses. He

gave much information as to the nature and properties of

iron -- the construction of girder-bridges, particularly
those of the kind used over the Dee -- the effect on them

of passing trains, &c. &c. ; but he strongly impressed

upon the Commissioners that any attempt to introduce

restrictive legislative enactments in regard to the use of

iron in railway structures would be highly inexpedient,

and would act prejudicially on professional enterprise and
skill. ' My opinion,' said he, ' is rather strong that a

Icollection of facts of all kinds is highly desirable, in

reference to the shape of girders ; but am convinced that

the Commissioners will have infinite difficulty in laying
Idown anything like rules.
                            cannot conceive myself being

tied down in executing such a line, for instance, as the
IHolyhead, or the London and Birmingham.
                                          cannot

conceive myself going on successfully, and being tied down

by preconceived rules, or limitations as to the extent to

which cast-iron should be used, and the forms that it
Ishould be used in.
                     think a collection of facts and

observations would be most valuable ; but if you attempt

to draw conclusions from those facts, and confine engineers,

Ieven in a limited way, to those conclusions, am quite sure

that it will tend to hamper the profession very much.'

          '  LIFE OF ROBERT STEFIIENSON.  [Ch. II.
58

    In addition to his oral evidence, Mr. Stephenson fur
nished a valuable statement of the experiments on iron
undertaken at his direction for the High Level Bridge at

Newcastle ; and also brought up before the Commission
two of his chief assistants, namely, Mr. Edwin Clark, who
gave a full account of the Britannia and Conway Bridges ;
and Mr. Charles Heard Wild, who described other large
girders made under Mr. Stephenson's direction. Mr.
Fairbairn and Mr. Hodgkinson also gave full accounts of
the comprehensive experiments conducted for the great
tubular bridges, so that Mr. Stephenson's opinions and
works may be fairly said to have formed the largest and
most important part of the information collected by the

Commissioners.

    Many other witnesses were examined, skilled in the
engineering of ironwork, among whom were Mr. Brunel,
Mr. (now Sir) Charles Fox, Mr. Locke, Mr. Eastrick, and
Mr. Charles May ; and much information was also col
lected in the form of written statements. Professor Willis,

aided by Professor Stokes of Cambridge, contributed
an elaborate theoretical paper on the deflection of
beams under moving loads ; " and a comprehensive series
of experiments was tried by the Commission on various
points coming within the scope of their enquiry.

    The Eeport of the Commissioners was presented to

Her Majesty at the end of July 1848. They considered

that bridges should be made somewhat stronger to meet
the additional strains from moving loads ; and they
recommended that the greatest load should in no case
exceed one-sixth of the stationary weight which would
break the beam when laid on the centre. They also
pointed but that weight is an advantage in enabling a

1848.]  IRON BRIDGES.  59

structure to resist concussions. As to designs of iron

railway bridges, they merely stated the facts and opinions
laid before them by engineers. They testified to the
careful and scientific manner in which the forms and
proportions of the great tubes of the Conway and
Britannia Bridges had been elaborated. They thought

that wrought-iron plate girders generally appeared to

possess and to promise many advantages. They found
engineers to be for the most part favourably disposed
towards them ; but as no experience had yet been
acquired of their powers to resist the various actions
of sudden changes of temperature, vibrations, and other
causes of deterioration, they were unable to express any
opinion upon them. With regard to trussed cast-iron
bridges, like that of the Dee, they found that difficulties
arose from the different expansions and elongations of the
two metals, and considered that the greatest skill and
caution were necessary to ensure the safe employment of

such combinations. They also stated that there existed
a great want of uniformity in practice in many most
important matters relating to railway engineering, which
showed how imperfect and deficient it yet was in its leading
principles (a reproach which unfortunately is almost as
applicable in 1864 as it was in 1848); but considering
that the attention of engineers had been sufficiently
awakened to the necessity of providing a superabundant
strength in railway structures, and also considering the
great importance of leaving the genius of scientific men
unfettered for the development of a subject so novel and
so rapidly progressive as the construction of railways, they
concurred in Mr. Stephenson's opinion that any legislative
enactments with respect to the forms and proportions of

60  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. II.

the iron structures employed therein would be highly
inexpedient.

    After the completion of the London and Birmingham
Eailway, notwithstanding the progress of iron roads in
all directions, no important step seems to have been made
in the improvement of iron bridges, until the epoch of
the Britannia Bridge, the erection of which initiated a
complete revolution in this branch of engineering science.
As an account of this great structure will be given
hereafter, it is only necessary to notice here the effect
which it had upon bridge construction in general.

    About 1845, when the experimental investigations
commenced, the only forms of iron bridges used for

railway purposes were the cast-iron arch, the simple

cast-iron girder, the trussed compound girder, and the

bowstring girder. In all these cast-iron had been the

principal element, very little attention having been paid
to wrought-iron as a material for girders, although its
use had become common and was well understood for

suspension chains.

    Wrought-iron had indeed been used by Smeaton, in
conjunction with wood, to form beams, by bolting an iron
plate between two half balks of timber. The plate, being

set vertically, contributed important strength to carry the
load, while the wood furnished the necessary lateral
stiffness. This kind of beam was, from its peculiar
construction, called the ' flitch ' or ' sandwich' girder, and

it was used subsequently -- in about 1839 or 40--in

forming beams of thirty or forty feet span on the
Cambridge branch of the Eastern Counties Eailway.
Wrought-iron beams, of analogous shape to those of

1841-45.]  IRON BRIDGES.                                                         61

cast-iron, had also been constructed for iron ships, and   a
other purposes, and Mr. Stephenson had himself used                         it,
them, about 1841, in a small bridge on the above-
mentioned Cambridge line ; but these were probably the
only instances in existence of the use of wrought-iron in
railway bridges. Very little was known as to the proper
application of the material. The principles of its strength
when applied to girders were quite undetennined ; no
such thing as a constructed beam of any scientific preten

sions or any large span had been imagined ; and even the
process of connecting wrought-iron plates together by
riveting was scarcely known beyond the boiler and iron

shipping trade.
    The experimental investigations, however, which were

conducted for the Britannia and Conway Bridges threw
quite a new light on the subject. From the time of the
abandonment of the large arch which Mr. Stephenson at
first proposed, it had become evident that cast-iron could
not be applied, and that wrought-iron was the only
material from which any real success could be expected ;
and it was therefore to the investigation of the properties
of this material, and the best manner of using that the

experimental enquiries were directed. They had the
effect of thoroughly developing the powers of wrought-
iron, of making known its peculiar properties, of render

ing its use perfectly amenable to theoretical calculation,
and of proving in the most conclusive manner its special
applicability to girders for bridges of any magnitude.
And they further showed the practicability of building
up or constructing, in that material, girders of almost any
strength and size, by only exercising skilful and careful

62  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. n.

attention to the details of the design, based on a correct
scientific knowledge of the nature and distribution of

the mechanical forces acting throughout the structure.
And it is worthy of remark how thorough and how
perfect these investigations were ; for although nothing
was known of wrought-iron girders before they were
undertaken, and although since their date wrought-iron
girders have come into very general use under the
greatest variety of forms, and in preference to all other
systems of iron-bridge construction, yet nothing essentially
new or important has been added to our knowledge of
the principles of their construction beyond what was
developed in these investigations, the records of which
comprise indeed almost the whole useful information,
theoretical or practical, we possess on the subject.

    To this date, then, may be referred the first use of

wrought-iron girders for bridge construction --the greatest

step made in iron bridges since their original introduction ;
as giving them not only the capability of application to
larger spans, but making them cheaper, more secure,
lighter, more convenient of erection, and clearer in the
headway; advantages almost incalculable for railway

purposes.
    The experiments were commenced in the middle of

1845, and early in the next year so much progress had
been made as to lead to the proposition of hollow plate

iron girders for railway bridges of considerable span. In
July 1846 Mr. Stephenson gave instructions for a bridge

on this principle, but with a cast-iron top, for a road
at Chalk Farm, crossing over the North Western Eail-
way. This bridge was sixty feet span ; it was completed

1845-47.]  -IRON BRIDGES.                       63

in March 1847, and was the first actual application
of hollow wrought-iron girders to the construction of

bridges.
   Meantime Mr. Fairbairn, who had previously made

drawings for a bridge of this kind, foreseeing that the use
of hollow plate girders would be considerably extended,
proposed to Mr. Stephenson to take out a patent for their
application. To this Mr. Stephenson consented ; but
being averse to his own name appearing in the patent,
he refused to accept any share of the profit, though
he consented to pay half the expenses of obtaining the

patent.* It was taken out October 8, 1846.

    Mr. Fairbairn soon began to put the plan into operation,

and in July 1847 completed bridges on this principle at

Blackburn and Bolton in Lancashire, which answered

well. The further progress of the designs for the large
Britannia and Conway tubes, and their ultimate success,
gave to the engineering world more complete confidence
in the use of wrought-iron for bridge girders, and a few

years more made its application universal.

   It would be foreign to the object of this work to follow
out in detail the wide and rapid progress of the art of

iron bridge building after the epoch we have been
considering ; it will suffice to give a general view of
the state it has now attained, and to describe briefly some
of the numerous varieties which have sprung up in the

construction.

   Iron bridges may now be divided into three great

           * Clark's Britannia Bridge, p. 812.

64  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.           [Ch. II.

classes -- namely, Iron Arch bridges, Suspension bridges,
and Iron Girder bridges.

   The first two of these have already been sufficiently
described, and we may therefore confine our attention

to the third or Girder class, which is a very large one,
and may be subdivided into several species somewhat

as follows: --

    1. Solid beams.
    2. Trussed cast-iron girders.
    3. Bowstring girders.
    4. Simple I-shaped girders.
    5. Tubular or hollow plate girders.
    6. Triangular framed girders.
    7. Lattice girders.

    8. Rigid suspension girders.

   A beam or girder is distinguished from other means of

bridging space by containing within itself the double
horizontal strains, the top part of the beam being under
compression and the lower part under tension. Hence
every beam may be considered as consisting of three
distinct parts, each of which has its own special office
to perform ; first the top member, which has to resist

crushing ; secondly, the bottom member, which has to
resist being torn asunder ; and thirdly, the vertical part,
which has to connect these two together, and to combine
the beam into one structural whole.

   In the Solid Beam no distinction is made between the
functions of the three parts, the top and bottom merging
insensibly into the vertical connecting part. This kind of

beam is represented by a stone lintel or a wooden floor
joist, the form being never used in iron, on account of its
wasteful distribution of material.

1848.]               IRON BRIDGES.                                   65

The Trussed Cast-iron Girder, which has already been

sufficiently described, is no longer in use.

Of the Bowstring 'Girder, with the bow in cast-iron,

we have also given an account ; but we may add here,

that as soon as wrought-iron came into use, large bow

string bridges were made entirely of this material.

Among these may be instanced one of 200 feet span, built

by Mr. Brunel in 1849, to carry a branch of the Great

Western Eail way over the Thames near Windsor; and

two by Messrs. Fox and Henderson, carrying the North

London Eailway over the Commercial Eoad and the

Eegent's Canal at Stepney, about 165 feet span, built in

1848.

   The I-shaped Girder was one of the -earliest used in

cast-iron. In economy of construction aimed at by
                it,                                     a
                                                                 is
accumulating metal in the shape of flanges at the topif I.

and bottom, and connecting them by vertical rib in thea
                                  is
middle of their width, so as to give the whole section the

shape of the letter  This form was also early imitated in

wrought-iron beams, and still one of the simplest and

best that can be used when the span small.              is

As soon, however, as very moderate limits are exceeded,

difficulties arise of practical nature, in consequence of

the distortion of form to which the simple I-shaped girder

would be liable, of great length and supported only on

two distant and limited bearing surfaces, more especially

as expansion and contraction prevent any rigid attachment

even on these.

The Tubular or hollow construction of Wrought-iron

Plate Girder was step in advance to meet this difficulty.
It
                                 a
                                                     F
differs from the I-shaped Girder only in that the top

VOL. II.

66        LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.       [Ch. II.

and bottom members are connected by two vertical plate
ribs, one. on each side, instead of a single one in the

middle, so that the whole forms a sort of hollow tube,

which is a stiffer and otherwise superior construction for

large spans. Indeed, this plan may be carried to so large
a size that, as in the Britannia and Conway Bridges, the

engine and train may pass along inside the tube.

   In the Triangular-framed Girder, the vertical rib, con

necting the top and bottom members, instead of being
composed of plates, is formed of a series of frames of a
triangular shape, fastened to the top and bottom with
large bolts. This form was first tried about 1850, at
the London Bridge Station of the South Eastern Eail-

way, and has since been a great deal adopted, with much

success.

    The largest bridge on this plan is one of 240 feet span,

erected in 1852 on the Great Northern Bailway over a

branch of the Trent near Newark. A structure also

very remarkable is a viaduct at Crumlin in Monmouth

shire, erected in 1857. It consists of a series of seven

triangular-framed girders, each 150 feet span, crossing a

wide valley at an altitude of 200 feet, and supported by

piers of framed ironwork, of great lightness of construc

tion. The singular appearance of this structure can

scarcely be imagined without seeing
    a                                 and
                                                                         a

                                                                       it,

                                                                        it

                                                                                             a is
certainly one of the engineering curiosities of Great

Britain.

   In the Lattice Girder, the vertical plates are replaced

by number of bars crossing each other so as to form
lattice- work, the strength of these bars being proportioned,
by known rules, according to their places in the girder.

The lattice principle was early used to great extent for

1853-55.]  IRON BRIDGES.                                                                07

timber bridges, particularly in America. One of theit
largest, as also one of the earliest structures on thisis,
principle in iron, was the bridge or viaduct erected in
1855 on the line of the Dublin and Belfast Eailway overa
                              a
the river Boyne near Drogheda. It consists of three
                                                       is
spans, the centre 264 feet, and the sides 139 feet each,                             a

the height above high water being 90 feet.
   The Eigid Suspension Girder is placed in a separate

class on account of its use by Mr. Brunel in two magni
ficent iron bridges of gigantic dimensions and economic
construction over the Wye at Chepstow, and the Tamar
at Saltash. The former, completed in 1853, has a single
span of 300 feet, at a height of 46 feet above high water.
The girder in fact, rigid suspension bridge, the tension
of the chains being resisted, not in the usual way, by
anchorage in the ground at each end, but by huge
cylindrical wrought-iron strut or column, stretching across
from side to side, at a height of 50 feet at the centre,
above the roadway. The whole well braced together,
and thus forms colossal trussed girder.

    The Saltash Bridge, with the viaduct which forms its
approach, carries the Cornwall Eailway over the estuary
and valley of the Tamar near Plymouth. The whole struc

ture comprises nineteen openings, and 2,240 feet long
but the bridge itself, crossing the river, consists of two
spans of 450 feet each, at height of 100 feet above
the water. The main girders, or trusses, are in principle
analogous to those at Chepstow but here the compression
tubes, which resist the pull of the suspension chains,
are curved instead of being straight, the rise of the tube
being equal to the drop of the chains. The tube thus
           a

                   ;

                             is

                                                                                          ;

           p
              2

68  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. n.

partakes of the nature of an arch, and in fact the whole
girder is a kind of intermediate between the Chepstow
truss and the old bowstring girder.

   The centre pier was a work of considerable difficulty
on account of the great depth of water. The substruc
ture is a solid cylindrical pillar of granite, 35 feet in
diameter, resting on a rock foundation 86 feet below

high-water mark. It was built in a coffer dam or

.cylinder of plate iron sunk through the bed of the river
till it rested on the rock below, and then emptied and
kept clear of water partly by pumping and partly by
compressed air, to allow of the construction of the granite

column inside.

    The bridge was commenced in 1853, and was opened
in May 1859 by H.E.H. the late Prince Consort, by
whose permission it was called the . Royal Albert

Bridge.

    Subsequently to the erection of the great works in North
Wales, Mr. Stephenson designed three other iron bridges
of considerable magnitude. The first was over the Aire,
on the York and North Midland Eailway, erected in 1850.
The span was 225 feet, and Mr. Stephenson adopted
the tubular girder, similar to the Welsh bridges, the
trains passing inside the tube ; but in this bridge, the span
being so much smaller, the cells were dispensed with, and
the top and the bottom were formed of simple plates. The
tubes were originally constructed of a tapering section,
narrower at the top than the bottom, but after they were

erected and the bridge was opened, the narrowness at the

upper part was objected to by the Government Inspector,
and the top plate had to be cut through longitudinally

1855.]  IRON BRIDGES.  69

 and widened in situ by the insertion of a strip of iron all-

 along; a delicate and unprecedented operation, but which,

 under great care, was perfectly successful.

    In 1855 Mr. Stephenson erected a large wrought-iron

 bridge on the Egyptian Eailway over the Damietta

 branch of the Nile near Benha. It consists of ten spans

 or openings, each of 80 feet, except the two centre
 ones, which, are 60 feet each, and are made to open,
 forming what is called a swing bridge, one of the largest
 hitherto attempted. The girders for this bridge were
 also tubular, but from their small size the roadway is
 carried upon the top of the tubes, and not in their
 interior. The total length of the swing beam is 157 feet ;

it is balanced at the middle of its length on a large central

pier, so that when open to the navigation, a clear water
way of 60 feet is left on either side. Each half of the

beam sustains its own weight as a cantilever 66 feet

long.
    The piers consist of wrought-iron cylinders, 7 feet in

diameter below the level of low Nile, and 5 feet diameter

above that level. They were sunk by the pneumatic
process to a depth of 33 feet below the bed of the river,
through soil of a peculiarly shifting character, and were
filled in with concrete. There are six of these cylinders
in the central pier which supports the swing bridge, and
the adjacent piers on either side of the centre have each
four cylinders. Each of the remaining piers has two
cylinders only. This plan of obtaining the foundation of
piers by sinking large iron cylinders has been a most
important modern advance in bridge-building. One of
the latest examples is in the bridge carrying the Charing

Cross Eailway across the Thames.

70  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Cn. n.

    The beams or tubes are 6 feet 6 inches deep, and 6
feet 6 inches wide at the bottom, tapering to 6 feet wide
at the top. They rest at their ends on rollers working
between planed surfaces, to admit of the motion caused
by expansion and contraction. The tubes carry a single
line of railway on their tops, the rails being laid on
longitudinal sleepers ; and there is also a roadway four
feet wide on either side, supported by wrought-iron
brackets bolted to the sides of the tube.

    The revolving machinery for the swing part of the
bridge consists of a turntable 19 feel diameter, running
upon eighteen conical rollers, connected by what is called
a 'live ring.' The whole of this machinery is most
carefully fitted and susceptible of the most accurate
adjustment. The bridge is turned by a capstan connected
by gearing with the moving parts, and which can be
worked with facility by two men.

   In 1853 Mr. Stephenson took up the subject of the

Great Victoria Bridge over the St. Lawrence in Canada,
a work of immense 'magnitude, of which a separate
notice is given in a subsequent chapter.

    The last work of his life had to do with one of the

earliest iron bridges ever erected, and one in which he
had always taken particular interest. This was the

strengthening, and indeed almost the entire reconstruction,
of the celebrated bridge over the Wear at Sunderland,
which has been already noticed in the early part of this

chapter.

   At the request of the authorities of the town Mr.

Stephenson had several times examined this bridge, and
expressed his conviction that its stability was extremely
precarious ; and as they concurred in this opinion,


                          ft

             SUNDERLAND BRIDGE.

                                  1790.

              SOUTHWARK BRIDGE.

                                  1819 .

1-- J -^h=a  =F=lJ....

1857.]  IRON BRIDGES.  71

he was in the year 1857 requested to undertake its
repair. He was then in failing health, and reluctant to
burden himself with further work, and he accordingly
entrusted the details of the operation to one of his earliest
friends and assistants, Mr. G. H. Phipps, by whom it was
carried to completion ; Mr. Stephenson, however, giving
his advice and opinion, and occasionally visiting the bridge
during the progress of the works. The work consisted of
the introduction of three new tubular arched ribs of

wrought-iron between the original cast-iron ribs of the
bridge ; the latter being firmly bolted to the new girders,
and thus being relieved of the chief part of their load.

    The width of the bridge between the hand-railings was
also increased from 32 feet to 41 feet li> inch, and the
road over the bridge and on the approaches was much
improved, its inclination, or gradient, being lessened from
1 in 17 to 1 in 50.

    One of the chief difficulties was the construction of a .

timber scaffolding, supported by pile work from the bed
of the river, which should be sufficiently substantial to
carry the weight of the arches, and should at the same
time allow of the passage, with their masts standing,
of the large amount of shipping frequenting the port ;
this scaffolding also formed a temporary bridge, both
for carriage and foot traffic, during the progress of the
alterations.

    The work was let by contract, towards the end of 1857,
to Mr. B. C. Lawton, by whom it was satisfactorily com
pleted, and the bridge was re-opened for traffic in the
summer of 1859, a few months prior to Mr. Stephenson's
death.

    The accompanying plate contains diagrams of several
large iron bridges all drawn to the same scale, from which

72  LIFE OF KOBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. II.

a comparison of their respective magnitudes can be made.
The two small figures are the Sunderland Bridge and the
Southwark Bridge ; the others represent the four principal
bridges erected by Mr. Stephenson, namely the Benha
Bridge, the High Level Bridge, the Britannia Bridge, and
the Great Victoria Bridge in Canada.

                                                                  W. P.



                                      73

. . ;.  CHAPTER ni.

        THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.*

    The Port of Holyhead -- The Holyhead Trunk Koad -- Interruption
     by the Menai Strait -- Attempts to establish a Passage -- Telford's
     Suspension Bridge -- Introduction of Railways -- Chester and Holy
     head Railway-- Proposal to use Telford's Bridge for Railway Pur
     poses --Mr. Stephenson designs an Independent Bridge --The Britan
     nia Rock-- Proposal for a Bridge of two Arches --Opposition in
    Parliament -- First Idea of the Tubular Construction -- Its Novelty
    -- Preliminary Experiments : Mr. Fairbaim and Mr. Hodgkinson --
     Important Principles derived from the Experiments --Mr. Stephenson's
     Report -- Commencement of the Masonry -- Further experimental
     Inquiries -- Means of placing the Tubes in their Positions -- Contracts
     for the Tubes -- Their Manufacture -- Floating and Raising --Descrip
    tion of the Bridge --Principle of Continuity --Tubes -- Mr. Stephen
     son's Explanations of Peculiarities in their Construction -- Towers
     and Abutments -- Architectural Design -- Cost -- The Conway Bridge.

THIS celebrated structure has for its object to carry the
       line of the Chester and Holyhead Railway, the main
artery of communication between the English and Irish
capitals, across the Straits of Menai, which separate the

fisland of Anglesea from the mainland of North Wales,

   * This chapter is contributed by   'to preserve the history of a con
                                      ception as remarkable for its origi
Professor Pole.                       nality as for the bold and gigantic
                                      character of its application.' Mr.
  t After the completion of the       Stephenson gave, in his own words,
bridge, a full account of it was      an account of the early history of
                                      the design, and he paid the author
published by Mr. Edwin Clark, the
                                      of these chapters the compliment of
resident engineer, with the sanction
and under the supervision of Mr.

Stephenson himself, the object being

74  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.             [Ch. III.

    The port of Holyhead, lying at the western extremity

of the island, and forming' the nearest point of land to

Kingstown Harbour, has always been considered the most

eligible place of departure for the passage across the Irish

Channel, when certainty and speed of transit have been

concerned. Liverpool has, it is true, carried on hitherto,

and will doubtless continue to carry on, a large trade

with the Irish capital by direct steamers, but it appears

certain that in this case, as in the traffic with the Continent,

that route must always be considered of the most impor

tance which involves the least exposure to the perils and

comparatively slow navigation of the sea.

    Long before railways were thought of, the great Holy

head Trunk Eoad had made the fame of the engineer

who .constructed  Thomas Telford and this work
    a
                        it,

                                 a
                                     is

                                              a
                                                 is

                                                                                               ;

                                                                                       is
                                                                                                                                                       ,
presented, in one or two points of its course, difficulties

so analogous to some of those which were vanquished in

the Britannia Bridge, that they may be treated as common

to the works of both engineers.

    The island of Anglesea separated from the mainland

of Carnarvonshire by narrow Strait, deeply sunk below

the general level of the land, and with rocky and preci

pitous banks on either side. The length of the Strait

about 11^ miles, its width of water-way varies from about
1,000 feet to three-quarters of mile, and the average

height of the shores on each side above 100 feet.

    For long time the land traffic to Holyhead had been

requesting him to contribute the        position as one of the best standard
theoretical illustrations of the prin-  engineering works of the present
ciples of the structure. The work
                                        age.
was magnificently got up, partly at
Mr. Stephenson's own expense, and          In the present notice, the data
has now taken an acknowledged
                                        given in that work are adhered to
                                        as closely as possible.

1785-1810.]  THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.  75

made to descend the bank, cross by a ferry, and ascend
again on the other side ; but the inconvenience, loss of
time, and often positive danger of this passage, prompted
at a very early period efforts to establish a permanent
roadway across the ravine. ' Bridges of timber or stone,
embankments with drawbridges for the passage of vessels,
and tunnels, had all been suggested ; and as early as 1785
a petition was presented to Parliament for the means of
carrying into effect one of these schemes; but the measure
had not at that time assumed such an importance as to
warrant the necessary large expenditure. When, how
ever, Ireland was united to Great Britain, in 1801, the

intercourse between the two kingdoms rapidly increased ;
the inconvenience and danger to travellers were naturally
and justly complained of ; and the attention of Govern
ment became seriously directed to the provision of a

remedy.
    They directed the late Mr. Eennie to survey the Strait,

and he prepared four designs of bridges for crossing at
different sites, the chief features of all being large iron
arches, in some cases as much as 450 feet span, and 150
feet above the water.

    Local opposition, however, and a disinclination to
provide the large sum required, caused the postponement
of the matter till 1810, when a parliamentary committee
was appointed to enquire into the state of the roads from
Shrewsbury and Chester to Holyhead. After taking
much evidence, this committee reported that the whole
subject, including the bridge, required further professional
investigation ; and in consequence of their report, the
Lords of the Treasury, in May 1810, instructed Mr.
Telford to make an accurate survey of the roads, to

76  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. III.

report on their improvement generally, and to consider
the best mode of .passing the Straits. He proposed two

plans of bridges --one, a single cast-iron arch of 500 feet
span, and 100 feet high ; the other, a series of iron and
stone arches of smaller size--preferring, however, the

former. These proposals were investigated in 1811 by
another parliamentary committee, who strongly recom
mended the execution of the large iron bridge. The great
dimensions of opening could not be dispensed with.
The Straits, though tortuous and rocky, and of difficult

navigation, were yet constantly used by large ships, on

account of their sheltered situation, and the saving which
they afforded of about 60 miles extra journey round
the exposed and dangerous coast of the island; and
hence it was absolutely prohibited that any fixed struc
ture should be thrown across, except of such width and
at such height as would allow the passage of large vessels,
underneath without inconvenience or danger.

    Notwithstanding the approval of the parliamentary
committee, still nothing was done, till a circumstance
that occurred elsewhere gave a new turn to the design.
In 1814 Mr. Telford was engaged in investigating the
possibility of throwing a bridge across the Mersey at
Euncorn, and finding the ordinary plan unavailable, he

had proposed a large bridge on the suspension principle,
which about that time was being brought into notice by

Captain Brown. In 1815 a parliamentary commission

was appointed to carry into effect the various improve
ments required in the Holyhead roads, Mr. Telford
being appointed their engineer ; and, after the general
road works had proceeded for about two years, the
enquiry arose whether the suspension principle might

1818-26.]  THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.  77

not be advantageously applied to the crossing of the
Straits. Mr. Telford therefore again directed his attention
to the subject, and early in 1818 submitted a report,
design, and estimate, so strongly in favour of the sus
pension plan, that it was at once sanctioned by Govern
ment, and the works were put in hand in the latter part
of the same year.

    This resulted in the well-known magnificent suspension
bridge, which, while it carries the road over the chasm

at a convenient level, offers an uninterrupted water passage
of nearly 550 feet wide and 120 feet high at high-
water, dimensions sufficient to allow the largest ships using
the Straits to pass under in full sail. Considering how
little experience had been gained at that time in the use
of iron for bridge construction, this bridge, so novel and
daring in design and so successful and elegant in exe

cution, has conferred lasting and well-merited fame on
'the engineer to whom its erection is due.

    Telford's bridge was opened in 1826, but in a few
years after that time the new system of communication
began to supersede the ordinary roads. The metropolis
of England was soon brought into railway connection
with the great commercial port of Liverpool, and public
attention began to be directed to a similar improvement

of the communication with Ireland. A railway was pro

jected for the land part of the journey ; but, before its

direction could be decided on, a question arose as to the

merits of Holyhead as a point of departure, compared
with another port on the main land, somewhat further
south, named Port Dynllaen. Each of these had its

advocates as a packet station, and various investigations

78  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Cn. m.

were entered upon, and reports made, both by civil

engineers and naval officers.
   These discussions ended in a decision in favour of

Holyhead, which led to the adoption of a line of rail
way to that port from Chester, to be connected by a

branch with the Birmingham and Liverpool Eailway at

Crewe. This line, called the Chester and Holyhead
Eailway, was first surveyed by Mr. George Stephenson

about 1838, but was subsequently taken up and carried

into execution by his son.
   The Act was obtained (with a certain hiatus which

will be hereafter referred to) in 1844, and the railway
was opened for its entire length, including the passage
across the'Britannia Bridge, in 1850.

    Few railways have exceeded this line, either in public im

portance or in engineering interest. The natural difficulties
have been great, and a series of engineering works of

almost unrivalled magnitude characterise its whole

length of 84^ miles. It emerges from Chester through a

tunnel, and passes over a viaduct of 45 arches to the
bridge by which it crosses the Eiver Dee. From thence
it follows the embanked channel of this river and its

estuary, and farther on the shore of the Irish sea, having
here and there important works, until it is stopped by
the bold headlands of the Great and Little Orme's Head.

It then leaves the coast, and, passing through the narrow

valley that separates these headlands from the main land,

crosses the Eiver Conway, beneath the castle walls, by a
wrought-iron tubular bridge of 400 feet in one span.
Passing through the town and under the walls by a short
tunnel, it again reaches the coast at the Conway Marshes,

and continues its course along the shore through the green

1844.]  THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.  79

stone and basaltic promontories of Penmaen Bach, and
Penmaen Mawr, the terminating spurs of the Snowdon
range, which it passes by two tunnels cut in the solid
rock. Beyond these it is carried for some distance along
the beach, partly on a viaduct of cast-iron. The sea

walls and defences on the one hand along this exposed
coast are all on a large scale ; whilst on the other side of
the line, a timber construction, similar to the avalanche

galleries on the Alpine roads, protects the line from
the debris rolling down from the lofty and almost over
hanging precipices above. The road again turns inland

to Bangor, and thence rises continually to a proper level

for crossing the Straits. In this space it passes through a

very rough country. The Eiver Ogwen is crossed by a
viaduct 246 yards in length, and the Cogyn by one of 132
yards long and 57 feet high ; and three ridges of hills

are perforated by tunnels, 440, 920, and 726 yards in
length respectively, through hard primitive and trap

rocks. In Anglesey the road passes over a marsh,

and through a tunnel 550 yards long, and enters Holy
head by partly making use of an embankment pre
viously constructed by the commissioners for the turnpike

road.

   When the Bill for the line was presented to Parliament
in 1843-4, the chief engineering work involved in it was
the bridge over the Eiver Conway. The passage of the

Menai Straits was proposed to be effected by perma
nently appropriating to the railway one of the two
roadways of Telford's great suspension bridge. As the
strength of this bridge, however, was deemed inade
quate for the safe transit of heavy locomotive engines, it
was intended to convey the trains across, in a divided

80  LIFE OF' ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. HI.

state, if necessary, by means of horse power, another
locomotive being in readiness on the opposite side -- the

passage of engines being thus entirely obviated. The
Commissioners of Woods and Forests, however, refused

to allow a permanent appropriation of the half of the
bridge in this way ; and as the expense to be incurred was
inconsistent with the idea of a temporary expedient, the
Eailway Company were driven to abandon this part of
their plan, and to propose an independent bridge for
their line. The Bill was accordingly passed with a hiatus
of five miles at this part, to give time for the arrangement
of the plans.

    The directors at once instructed Mr. Eobert Stephen
son, who had then become their engineer, to select a
suitable place for crossing ; and, after studying the subject
well, he decided on a site about a mile to the west 01

Telford's bridge. The tide-way is here somewhat con
tracted ; but the feature which principally determined the
choice was the existence of a rock or island in the middle
of the stream, called The Britannia Eock ; and from

this, and not, as is often supposed, from any allegorical
allusion, the bridge takes its name.

   As the rock gave the opportunity of building a large
pier, and so dividing the span into two parts, it was pro
posed to construct the bridge of two cast-iron arches,
each 350 feet span, with a versed sine of 50 feet, the

roadway being 105 feet above the level of high- water at
spring-tides. The difficult problem of erecting these
gigantic arches, in a situation where no centering or
scaffolding would have been possible, was proposed to be
solved by Mr. Stephenson in a very ingenious manner,
and the Company prepared, at the end of 1844, a bill

1845.]      THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.  81

based upon this plan to go before Parliament the ensu

ing session.
   As soon, however, as it became known what kind of a

bridge it was proposed to build, a storm of opposition arose

from the parties interested in the Straits, on the ground

that such massive constructions would seriously interfere

with the navigation. In March 1845, the Admiralty,

in whom the guardianship of the navigation was vested,

instructed three eminent engineers to examine the site and

to report on the proposed plan; and as they stated that, in

their opinion, the cast-iron bridge was ineligible, and that

a clear passage of at least 100 feet high throughout

the whole span should be insisted on, the proposal was

abandoned.

Mr. Stephenson had already anticipated and prepared

for this decision. He had fallen back upon the idea

of the suspension bridge, and had begun to consider

whether it was not possible to stiffen the platform so
effectually as to make it available for the passage of
railway trains at high velocities. His attention was

directed to a suspension bridge at Montrose, where great

stiffness had been afforded by a judicious system of truss

ing ; and, carrying out this idea further, he conceived that

sufficient strength might be obtained by the combination

of the suspension chains with deep trellis trussing, having

vertical sides, with cross bearing frames at top and bottom ;

the roadway being thus surrounded on all sides by

strongly trussed framework. But as this idea was dwelt

upon, difficulties arose about the material in which this

trussed framework should be made. Timber was deemed

inadmissible by reason of its perishable nature, and the

danger from fire ; and Mr. Stephenson, reverting to the

VOL. II.    G

82  LIFE OF ROBERT STErilEXSOX.                                 [Ch. in.

design he had made for a small bridge in wrought-ironit         a
in 1841, was led to consider the application of this
material, by substituting for the vertical wooden trellisait,
            a
trussing, and the top and bottom cross beams, wrought-a if
iron plates riveted together with angle-iron. The form
which the idea then assumed was, consequently, that of;

a huge wrought-iron rectangular tube, so large that railof

way trains might pass through with suspension chainsit
on each side.                                                ;

    The conception having reached this stage, only little
farther careful consideration was necessary to arrive at

the idea that such tube would, properly designed,
serve the purposes of beam or girder. The top and
bottom of the tube, which was intended to compose
of thick wrought-iron plates, would evidently correspond
with the top and bottom flanges of common cast-iron

girder, and might be made to perform their duties and
take their strains and having reference to this consider
ation, Mr. Stephenson began now to regard the tubular
platform as a beam, comprising in itself the main element

    its supporting power, and to which the chains were
merely auxiliaries. Eough calculations were made, which
though necessarily very imperfect, gave confidence in
the feasibility of the design and Mr. Stephenson's

reliance on was further strengthened by some practical
examples brought to his notice of the great strength
shown by large iron vessels accidentally placed under
circumstances of peculiar strain and trial. Mr. Stephen

son, fortified by these facts, even went so far as to propose

to dispense with the auxiliary chains altogether.
   Thus the matter stood at the beginning of April 1845,

when the reports to the Admiralty put an end, as Mr.

1845.]  THE BEITANNIA BRIDGE.  83

Stephenson had anticipated, to 'the scheme of a cast-iron
arch-bridge. The forethought and prudence with which
he had prepared for this contingency, strikingly illustrate
an element in his character, which was prominent through
his whole professional career. Though he had strong
confidence in his own views, when they were the result of

sound reasoning and careful consideration, he never trusted
with too sanguine an expectation to the favourable result

of uncertain chances. He never undertook a doubtful

course, without previously having determined a way of

escape if it turned out contrary to his expectations ; and

to this admirable prudence is due, without doubt, much
of the success which attended his professional labours.

   The extinguishing of a favourite scheme, for such the
arch- bridge was, would have damped the ardour of many
men ; but no sooner had it occurred than Mr. Stephenson
announced to the directors of the railway that he was
prepared to carry out a bridge of such a kind as would
comply with the Admiralty conditions ; and, after he had

explained his views, they --not, however, without some

misgivings -- gave him their confidence and authorised
him to lay his designs before Parliament.

   The Bill came before the Committee of the House of

Commons early in May. Mr. Stephenson's proposals,
given on the first day, were received with much evident
incredulity, and the Committee desired further evidence,
and especially that of the Inspector-General of Eailways,

General Pasley, before they could pass the Bill authorising

the erection of such a bridge as that which he had pro
posed. The Inspector concurred in the soundness of the
idea, but most decidedly objected to the removal of the
chains ; and Mr. Stephenson, though he still expressed

                                                                   G2

84  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. in.

confidence in the sufficiency of the tube alone, thought
it expedient to defer to this opinion, and to acquiesce in
their retention. This satisfied the Committee, and the
Bill in due course became law, by receiving the Eoyal
assent, the 30th of June 1845.

   It was now necessary to take steps in earnest for

designing the tube. The calculations already made had
been very rough: for such constructions being entirely
novel, no experimental data were in existence of any use
for practical purposes. No wrought-iron beam of any
magnitude had ever been made or designed at all, and
though the general properties of the material had been
to some extent ascertained in suspension bridges, iron ships,

and other wrought-iron constructions, the way to apply
it in the best manner, so as to render its strength available

in forming a large girder, was quite unknown. It was

not the mere arrangement of the materials to resist the
transverse strains which formed the difficulty of the

problem. It was rather the practical design of any such

structure at all -- the difficulty of obtaining the iron in
the forms required, or of adapting such forms as were
obtainable to new purposes-- and of devising a beam, not
merely strong enough for its ultimate use as a bridge, but
of sufficient independent rigidity for keeping its form
when erected, and for sustaining the complicated and
trying processes connected with its first construction, its

floatation, its conveyance to the site, and its elevation and

fixing in place.

    Mr. Stephenson, therefore, considering the magnitude of

the matter at stake, at once decided on supplying the
want of data by a series of experiments on a large scale,

1845.]  THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.  85

before committing himself to the design for the tube.
His own knowledge of the properties and manufacture
of iron was very considerable, having been engaged
from his youth up so actively and prominently in the
manufactory at Newcastle ; but, with the unassuming
modesty of true merit, he did not think fit to rely on
himself alone, for he felt that, considering the responsi
bility which he had publicly assumed, he would be doing
injustice to the Board of Directors, who had placed such

confidence in him, if he did not avail himself of all the

practical and scientific aid within his reach. He ac

cordingly entrusted the performance of the experiments
to Mr. William Fairbairn, of Manchester, whose practical
experience he estimated very highly, and with whom he had

consulted on the subject previously to the parliamentary

investigation. A short time afterwards, also, at Mr. Fair-

bairn's suggestion, he engaged the assistance of the

late Mr. Eaton Hodgkinson, whose valuable contributions
to engineering science, more especially in regard to iron
structures, had attracted much notice in the profession.

    The experiments, which were designed and proceeded
with under Mr. Stephenson's personal superintendence,

were not at first specific in their object. It was necessary

rather to determine what kind of information was required,

than to pursue any definite course --to ascertain generally

in what manner tubes might be expected to fail, and to

what extent their strength might be modified by form.
The first idea of the tube was a rectangular section,

but this was afterwards thought objectionable, and atten

tion was directed to the circular or elliptical form. Model

tubes of these sections were accordingly made and care
fully tested ; but they failed in strength, and, after due

86  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. III.

discussion and consideration of the experiments, it was

decided that these shapes were ineligible, and the original
rectangular form was reverted to. Trial tubes of this
shape proved more satisfactory, and, in February 1846,

Mr. Stephenson was able to report to the half-yearly
meeting the general conclusion that had been arrived at.
He stated that, after carefully studying the results as

they developed themselves, he had satisfied himself that
the wrought-iron tube was the most efficient as well
as the most economical description of structure that

could be devised for crossing the Straits --that the form
of the tube must be rectangular -- that the general dis

position of the material had been determined-- and that
the only problem remaining was that of the necessary

strength to be given : that apparently greater strength

was required than had been at first proposed ; but to
establish the formula? of calculation more positively,
as well as to settle doubtful points regarding the use of
the chains, it was desirable to carry the experimental
researches still further.

   It was in this preliminary series of investigations that

the remarkable and unexpected fact was brought to light
that the power of wrought-iron to resist compression
was much less than to resist tension, being the reverse
of that which held in cast-iron. This discovery had

not only an important bearing on the design for the
tube, but it has since formed a valuable datum in regard
to the engineering use of the material generally.

   Another point having important influence on the sub

sequent design was also brought out for the first time. It

was found that in all the earliest trials of thin tubes the

top part, which was exposed to a compressive strain, failed

1845.]   THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.  87

not by the direct crushing of the material, but by the

buckling or collapse of the plates. This was a new fact

altogether, and one which had never been taken into

account in any of the formulae for strength previously em

ployed.  It indeed annihilated at once their practical

utility ; and, prominent as it became in subsequent experi

ments, it threatened temporarily even to frustrate the

consummation of Mr. Stephenson's design. It was, there

fore, at once treated as the most important object of
investigation. In some of the elliptical tubes a sort of

cell or fin was introduced ; but as this form was just then

abandoned, the same difficulty arose with the rectangular

tubes, the tops of which, when formed of thin flat plates,
buckled up under the pressure. At length corrugations

were made in the plates, which were found to add much
to the stiffness * and this led to the formation of the top

in a series of tubes or cells, which, while they gave the

necessary rigidity, offered great facilities for the manu
facture, as well as convenient access to all parts of the

material ; an object which had been always prominent

in Mr Stephenson's mind.

The publication of Mr. Stephenson's report on these

preliminary experiments, which was accompanied by

others from Mr. Fairbairn and Mr. Hodgkinson, formed an

important epoch in the history of the bridge. Public

attention was now for the first time drawn to the subject,

and the directors of the Company were relieved from

some anxiety by the more definite details submitted to

them. But still the necessity for further experiments

was obvious. Everybody had some doubts and fears

to suggest-- dismal warnings came in on all hands, sug

gesting every imaginable apprehension. The necessity

88  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. III.

for chains was still advocated, not only by General
Pasley, but by Mr. Hodgkinson himself. Many doubted
the efficiency of riveting to unite such a mass of
plates ; some foretold the most fatal oscillation and

vibration from passing trains, sufficient even to destroy
the sides of the structure ; while others asserted the in

sufficiency of the lateral strength to resist the wind. In

fact, with few exceptions, scientific men generally either
remained neutral or ominously shook their heads and
hoped for the best, and even the most sanguine waited

for further experimental investigation. All this was so

discouraging, that Mr. Stephenson, strong as his faith was
in his own plans, could not avoid appearing at times
disheartened, when he withdrew from the turmoil of

his metropolitan parliamentary duties to deliberate on
the weighty difficulties he had to encounter in his gigantic
undertaking in the distant hills of North Wales.

   At this time, too, another serious matter presented

itself. The preliminary considerations, discussions, and
experiments summed up in Mr. Stephenson's report had
occupied much longer time than had been anticipated;
but the work on the other portions of the line had been
steadily progressing, and it became evident that the
Britannia and Conway bridges would be ultimately the
chief cause of delay in the completion of the line. Hence
the directors became impatient that Mr. Stephenson
should sufficiently mature his plans to allow of the
commencement of the masonry ; and, while they did
not hesitate to sanction the continuance of such further

experiments as he might deem advisable, they, with
a confidence in his proposals which few shared with

1846.]  THE BKITANNIA BRIDGE.  89

them, entreated him without delay to commence opera
tions simultaneously at both sites, and to complete
his designs as he proceeded. This gratifying resolution
added considerably to his anxiety, as he wished first

to complete the smaller structure -- the Conway Bridge,

in order to obtain for the larger one the benefit of any
experience it would afford. The plans of the masonry
were however at once prepared. They were ready for
contract by the middle of March 1846, and the first stone
of the Britannia Bridge was laid April 10 in that year.

    The further experiments which were needed for the
completion of the design of the tubes, were of two

kinds. In the first place it was considered necessary

to make a model tube, very much larger than any
of the previous ones, and representing more nearly
the principles of the structure itself; with a view of
putting it to every possible test, and by constant correc
tion of its weak points of arriving gradually at the best
form and proportions possible. And, secondly, it was
found that, in order to give the power of reasoning from

this model up to the structure itself, many more experi
mental data were necessary than were yet in existence, as
to the qualities of the materials and the workmanship
proposed to be used, and the influence of strains upon

 them.

    These latter specific enquiries were undertaken by Mr.
 Hodgkinson. They consisted of careful and elaborate

 experiments and deductions on the compression, flexure,
 and crushing of materials and manufactured compound

structures under direct pressure --on the extension and
tensile strength of materials --on riveting -- on the shear
 ing of iron exposed to transverse strain -- and on the

00  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. III.

transverse strength of beams and tubes of various kinds.
They were, it is true, more particularly aimed at the ques
tion then pending ; but they form a mass of general infor
mation of the most useful description, and probably, as
a whole, unrivalled in extent and value.

    The large model was constructed at Mr. Fairbairn's
works at Millwall, near London, in order that it

might be tested under Mr. Stephenson's more imme

diate inspection. The proportions having been tho
roughly discussed, it was commenced in April 1846,
and completed in July, and the experiments upon it were

immediately put in hand. It was rectangular in shape,

with a top composed of one row of cells, and its
dimensions were determined in reference to the re

quirements for the Britannia Bridge, every dimension
being one-sixth of the eventual magnitude then thought
necessary. Thus the Britannia tube being 450 feet
long in the clear, the length of the model between the

bearings was 75 feet -- the depth 4 feet G inches -- and the

width 2 feet 8 inches : forming a large bridge-girder
of ijself. The weight was between five and six tons.

It .was supported at each end on a pier, and weights were
hung on the centre till it gave way. In the first experi

ment it broke with 30£ tons by the rending asunder of
the bottom plates. These were then repaired and strength
ened, when it bore 43 tons, giving way at the sides,
which were then strengthened in turn. Next the bottom

gave way again several times, each time having larger

dimensions ; and so the trials and alterations were

continued until at length a proportion was arrived at
which proved to be about equally strong all over. As

Jthus perfected, the tube bore 86 tons, or 2 times that of

1847.]  THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.  01

the first trial, although in the strengthening only one ton
of iron had been added-- such being the effect of a judi

cious application of the material.
   The experiments on this model directly proved what at

first had appeared problematical, namely, that with
such extensive horizontal developement of the top and
bottom flanges, the whole of their sectional area would act
effectually in resisting extension or compression through

out the entire width. In fact, when the model beam

was broken, the tearing asunder of the bottom plates
actually commenced at about the middle of the tube,
and not at the outside edges -- showing thus that the
principles of simple girders were directly applicable to

this construction also.

    The experiments on the large model were continued
till April 1847 ; but in the meantime the designs for the
tube had not been neglected. During the first half of the
year 1846 a great number of tentative drawings, models,
and calculations were made; and although many of these

attempts were necessarily discarded, as clearer views
resulted from increased experimental information, yet
some of the designs thus sketched out remarkably anti

cipated the ultimate plan. In July, when the experi

ments on the large model were commenced, a design for
the great tubes had been made out in considerable detail.
This was. gradually improved as further information was
obtained ; and more perfect drawings were completed
in the beginning of November. These, however, were
further modified from time to time, the most important
change being in the arrangement of the cells of the top,
effected in February 1847, in accordance with certain

principles resulting from the enquiries of Mr. Hodgkinson.

LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                          [Ch. III.

In March the correct lists of the plates were made out,

and the first complete working drawings for the     tubes
were finished, although still further improvements  were
introduced as the work went on.

   There is little doubt that this gradual growth and constant
improvement of the designs conduced much to their per
fection ; and at a much later period, when wrought-iron

girders had been greatly developed by the experience of
subsequent years, and the talent of engineers had given

rise to numberless elegant and ingenious practical com

binations in bridge construction, Mr. Stephenson declared
that he found it difficult to conceive any better means
than those adopted of solving the problem.

   While the design of the tubes was thus being considered,
another question of scarcely less importance had also

called for investigation, namely, the means by which they
were to be placed in their position. For it scarcely need
be remarked that the immense size and weight of the
tubes, and the peculiarities of the situation, put them com
pletely out of the range of all ordinary experience.

    Many suggestions for this purpose were made and
discussed at various times. An early idea of Mr.

Stephenson's, when the cast-iron arch-bridge was proposed

for Conway, was to float it to its place on pontoons ; and
the merits and difficulties of this plan had bteen fully
discussed. When the arch was superseded by the tube
in both localities, this mode of placing the tube was
again considered, as the form which the bridge had
assumed was evidently favourable for such an operation ;
and it was accordingly proposed to construct the tubes

on the beach, and to float them to their ultimate

1847.]  THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.  93

position. This presupposed sufficient strength in the
bridge independently of chains; but Mr. Stephenson,
at that time, considered that the insurance afforded

by chains against any accident from unforeseen causes
would be a consideration of vital importance ; and
he did not, in that stage of his experience, feel justi
fied in throwing away such a security. He there
fore determined on availing himself of these auxiliary
suspension chains, in the first instance, for support
ing a temporary platform or scaffolding, along which
the tubes constructed on the land could be rolled

into their places. This plan was maturely considered ;

the designs for the platform, --which would of itself
have been a large suspension bridge--were prepared ; and

much attention was bestowed on the manner of making
the chains available as additional means of security to
the tube, after their temporary office as scaffolding had

been performed.

    As, however, the progress of the design in the early
part of 1846 gave more confidence in. the self-supporting
power of the tubes, and as the completed estimates for
the suspension platform, with the then high price of

wrought-iron, were very large, the subject was again dis
cussed ; and in July, Mr. Clark, who had accidentally
obtained what he considered a good practical suggestion
of a mode of raising the tube, urged upon Mr. Stephenson,
with Mr. Fairbairn's assistance, a renewal of the floatation

scheme. The subject was carefully and candidly recon
sidered by Mr. Stephenson, and ultimately the chains
were abandoned ; and it was decided to put the tubes
together upon the shore of the Straits ; to float them to
 their site on pontoons ; and to raise them to the required

94  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. III.

high level by hydraulic power ; and this was the plan
carried into practice.

    Meantime it became urgent that arrangements should
 be made for the manufacture of the tubes, which the

 directors decided to put out to contract, reserving to
 themselves, however, the right to purchase the iron,
 and to supply it to the makers of the tubes at a fixed

price per ton. In July 1846, the plates were con
tracted for by seven of the principal iron makers in the

midland iron district ; and shortly afterwards negotia
tions were commenced with several manufacturers for
the construction of the tubes, but it was May 1847,
before the arrangements were finally concluded. The

first stipulation had been that the makers should con
struct the work at their own manufactories, in large
sections, to be delivered on the shore of the Straits, and

there put together ; but as this plan involved difficulty,
it was afterwards decided that the manufacture should

be entirely done on the shore. On this understanding
the contract for one large tube was given to Messrs.
Garforth, of Manchester, and for the other seven to Mr.
Charles Mare, of Blackwall. The site for the construc

tion of the tubes had been determined some time
previously. It was necessary that the making of the
four large tubes should proceed simultaneously, and the
clearing and preparation of the four places where they
were to be made was a work of considerable difficulty
and labour. Large and strong platforms of timber had
to be laid down to build the tubes upon: these were
occupied, and the ironwork began to get into shape by
July 1847, and the first rivet for putting the tubes
together was inserted on the 10th of August following.

1840.]  THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.

   The first of the large tubes was finished, and the
wood platform was removed from beneath it by the 4th
May 1849, leaving the weight of the tube supported on its
two ends. This had, however, been anticipated by the
Conway tube, finished in the January previous ; and
as the latter was in reality the first practical test of the
great experiment, the anxiety of all concerned was

intense to see the result as the timbers were gradually

cut away. A deflection of 2 or 3 feet had been

predicted, and many high authorities had affirmed that
the tube could not support its own weight ; while others
foretold the buckling of the top, the distortion of the
sides, the crushing of the extremities, and all sorts
of failures. These forebodings were set at rest, and all

fears at an end, when the platform was cleared away,
and the tube took its own weight with just about the
calculated deflection, and without the slightest appearance
of undue strain or damage in any part.

    The second tube was finished a few weeks after the first,

the third in October 1849, and the fourth in February

1850.

   Two other operations yet remained, each as gigantic
and novel as the construction of the tubes, and attended

with as much anxiety ; namely, their removal by floating
from the shore where they were constructed to the site
of the bridge, and the hoisting of them up to their re

quired level.

   In the Conway Bridge these operations had been under

taken by the contractors ; but, in the more important case
of the Britannia Bridge, Mr. Stephenson preferred that

they should be done immediately under his own direction.

96  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                 [Ch. III.

The arrangements for them had accordingly occupied his

attention during the latter part of the year 1848, and to

facilitate the study a model was made of considerable

size, with real water, on which the whole operation could

be imitated ; so that by constant rehearsals of the process

on this miniature pool the plans for floating were matured.

Each tube was to be floated on eight pontoons, intro

duced in cuttings in the rock under the tube, and which,

on a certain day, were to be emptied and allowed to rise
by the flowing tide till they lifted the tube off its bearings,

and took its weight upon themselves. They were then

to be hauled out into the stream, in order that it might

float them and their burden to the bridge, being carefully

guided and controlled by hawsers attached to the shore

on either side. This was to be done near high-flood,

so that the tube might arrive at the bridge about the

turn of the tide at still water, when its ends were to

be lodged upon shelves prepared for the purpose at the

foot of each tower, and the pontoons floated away. The

difficulties of this operation consisted in the magnitude of
the moving mass --the great number of departments and
of hands entering into the process --the short time it had
                                               aanhahlfo)--ur)t--he
to be done in (only    about one 'hour   and
great velocity of the  tide (about six  miles

and the terrible consequences that might ensue if the

operation should fail, and the floating mass become

unmanageable under the swift and powerful ebb-tide.

Mr. Stephenson's energy, prudence, and foresight were

here again admirably displayed. He devoted untiring

attention to the organising and teaching of a large body

of persons, many hundreds in number, who were to

be engaged in the task, directed by his own staff

1848.]    THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.  97

of assistants ; and as the work involved operations of

a nature new to engineers, he obtained the aid of a

large body of sailors and nautical men, under the com
mand of Captain Claxton, E.N., who had acquired much

reputation for his successful exertions in rescuing the
Great Britain, stranded at Dundrum Bay. And further

than this, impressed as Mr. Stephenson was by the im
mense responsibility of the operation, he invited two

of his most eminent brethren in the profession --now,

alas! like him, departed from this earthly scene of

their labours --Mr. Brunel and Mr. Locke, to give him

the benefit of their assistance, a trait of professional good
feeling which did him infinite honour. This aid, we need

hardly say, was cheerfully afforded, both gentlemen being

at his side the whole time.

The floating of the two Conway tubes in March and

October 1848, had served as useful preh'minary trials,

from which much valuable experience had been gained,

and which enabled Mr. Stephenson well to mature his

plans. Preparations were made for floating the first

Britannia tube on the 19th of June 1849, but in conse

quence of the fracture of a capstan at the commencement,
it was postponed to the next day, when it was success

fully performed --the lodging of the tube upon the

shelves of the towers being greeted by cannon from the

shore, and the hearty cheers of many thousands of spec

tators, whose sympathy and anxiety had been indicated

by the unbroken silence with which the whole operation

had been observed.

The tube lay across the water, out of reach of the

tide, during the remainder of June and the whole of July,

VOL. II.                     H

98  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. III.

while the machinery for raising it to its proper height was
fitted in the towers. This apparatus consisted of huge
hydraulic presses, placed at the tops of the towers on
each side, from which strong chains hung down to the
tube. By working these presses, the tube was raised six
feet at a time, the ends sliding up in recesses or vertical
grooves, which were built up under the ends of the
tube as fast as it rose, timber packing being further
inserted, so that in case of fracture of any of the
suspending machinery the tube would not have far to

fall.

    On the 10th of August the raising was commenced, and
it proceeded slowly till the 17th, when one of the press
cylinders burst, allowing the end of the tube to fall 8 or 9

inches on to the packing below--which, slight as the
fall was, caused some damage. By the 1st of October

the press was again ready : the raising steadily pro

ceeded, and on the 13th the tube safely attained its final

elevation.

    The second tube was floated on December 6th, and it was
in its place by January 7th, 1850. This was in a line with
the first one, and, as the two short or land tubes corres
ponding were already completed, it only required the
four lengths to be joined in order to effect a passage

across the Straits. These junctions proceeded night and
day, and were completed and the rails laid by March
4th. The next day Mr. Stephenson and some friends
passed through on a locomotive, followed by an enormous
train of forty-five coal wagons and carriages, containing
seven hundred passengers, and drawn by three engines. On
the same day the last rivet was formally put into the tube

1850.]  THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.  99

by Mr. Stephenson and the contractor, and the passage
of the Menai Straits by the Chester and Holyhead Eail-
way became an accomplished fact. On the 15th the bridge

was passed by the Government Inspector, and on the 18th

it was opened for public traffic. It was worked as a

Jsingle line for some time. The third tube was floated on
 une 10th, an operation which the concurrence of several
accidents made the most hazardous of all ; and it was

raised July 11th. The fourth and last tube was floated July

25th, and placed in position on August 12th. The last
piece of scaffolding was removed on October 11th ; and on

October 19th, 1850, the bridge was completed and opened
for the double line.

    The description of the bridge need only be very brief,
as full particulars and views have been made so acces

sible by publication. It will be confined to an enumera

tion of such prominent points in the structure as may

best illustrate its novelty and magnitude.
    The nature of the ravine over which the bridge forms a

passage has been described, and the peculiar conditions of
navigation of the Straits, have already been alluded to as
having influenced the general design. The water-way was
about 1,000 feet wide, with a rock in the middle, so that

by building a tower of sufficient height on each side,
and one on the rock, this space was divided into two
equal spans, But as the shelving shore on each bank
gave a considerable increase of width at the required
level of the roadway, some mode was necessary for filling
in this additional space. The simplest plan would have
been to build it up from the ground with arches of

                                                                  H2

100  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. in.

masonry, as Telford had done in the Menai Suspension
Bridge ; but Mr. Stephenson resolved to make use of these
side spaces to effect an important object in regard to the
large tubes, namely, to diminish the strains upon them by
making them parts of a continuous long beam, instead of

leaving each a single isolated span. It is well-known that

when a beam extends- continuously over several openings

-- as, for example, in a floor-joist--the strain is much less

than when each span is covered by an independent beam
of the same size. This, therefore, was the principle which
Mr. Stephenson put in practice in this case. He threw
the abutments, or land terminations of the bridge, high up
the rocks on each side, and filled in the land spans with
shorter tubes, so that the bridge became one of four spans

--two large ones in the middle, flanked by a small one on

each side. As regarded the bridge itself, these smaller land
tubes were not required at all : they merely acted, so to
speak, as counterpoises for the large tubes, converting them
into continuous long beams, and their overhanging weight
serving to relieve the centre parts of a portion of
their strain. This application of the principle of con
 tinuity is a good example of Mr. Stephenson's excellent
 intuitive practical perception of mechanics. The general
 fact was, indeed, known, and its explanation had been
investigated in mathematical works ; but it was not till
 long after the erection of the Britannia Bridge that it
 was brought prominently before the notice of the
 engineering profession, or applied to iron bridges gene
 rally, with any view to the advantages afforded by it.*

   * See Minutes of Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers, vol.
ix. 1849-50.

1850.]  THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.            101

 It does not appear to have formed any important part in

 the preliminary experiments, or even to have been the

 subject of any recorded calculations. In all probability

 its application was dictated almost entirely by Mr. Stephen
 son's practical judgment, and the test of elaborate
 mathematical analysis subsequently applied to the work
 shows how sound and accurate this judgment was.*

    The span of each of the long tubes is 460 feet clear of
the towers-- that of each of the short or land tubes,

230 feet. A separate line of tubes is provided for each

line of railway, with a small space between them, but
both resting on the same towers. The four land tubes
were constructed in situ, upon scaffolding built tem
porarily for the purpose.

    Each line of tubes is connected throughout, forming
one continuous tube 1,511 feet long, and weighing, with
the permanent way, 5,270 tons.. This long tube is
securely fixed in the centre tower, but its bearings on
the side towers and abutments are moveable, that it

may expand and contract freely from changes of tem

perature.
    The depth of the tube externally is 30 feet at the

centre tower, diminishing to 23 feet at each end,
so that while the bottom outline is straight, the top
forms a portion of a curve. The internal clear height
at the ends is 16 feet 4 inches. The breadth of the

tube is about . 14 feet, allowing room for a man to stand
safely on the side during the passage of a train.

   As each span of the tube had to bear its own weight

        * See Mr. Clark's work, p. 785.

102  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. in.

between the supports before they were connected to- '

gether, it was necessary, in the design, to treat each
as a separate beam. The top and bottom members were
the effective portions in resisting the strain, and in them,
consequently, the largest amount of material was collected,
being disposed in the shape of a series of square cells
or flues, eight in the top and six in the bottom, of suffi
cient size to allow workmen to enter for the purpose
of riveting, and also to cleanse and paint the interior.
The sectional area of solid metal in the top, at the
middle of the length of the large tube, is 648 square
inches, of the bottom 585 square inches. This is reduced

towards the ends.

    The engraving, fig. 6, represents a section of the tube,
and will give a general idea of its construction.

    The sides are plain sheets of plates, stiffened by ver

tical ribs or pillars of T iron, within and without, and

also by gussets or corner-pieces, filling up the angles on
the inside. The sides increase very much in thickness

towards the towers, and are strengthened at the end
with massive cast-iron frames.

    The entire weight of ironwork in the bridge is

11,468 tons--the rivets in the tubes number above two

 millions.

    The strength of the tubes has been well determined
by several modes of calculation. Considering one of
the large tubes as an independent beam, it is found
 that it would not break with less than about 5,000 tons

 equally distributed along its length. Now the tube
 itself weighs 1,550 tons, and adding to this the greatest
 moveable load that could possibly come upon it would
 make up little more than 2,000 tons, or two-fifths

1850.]  THE BKITANNIA BKEDGE.  103

of its ultimate strength. But this is less favourable
than the reality, inasmuch as the strength is nearly

                                             Fig. 6.

doubled by the continuity of the beam over the several

spans.

   The strain upon the metal at the middle of the length

104  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. III.

of the long tube would be about h\ tons per square
inch, if considered as an independent beam, but is

reduced to 2| tons by the continuity.*

   Mr. Stephenson made, at a later period, some explana
tions of certain peculiarities in the construction of the
tubes which it may be well to repeat here, as they are
necessary to explain the objects that guided him in

the design.
    The sides of the tubes weigh nearly forty per cent, of

the whole weight. Had they been constructed in situ,
this weight might have been considerably reduced. But
in the operation of floating, the tubes were liable to be
supported at any point of their length, besides being
subjected to chances of considerable dislocation, and to
disasters which, on more than one occasion, did actually
threaten their' entire destruction. The stiffening frames
and gussets, which in an ordinary girder would have

only been necessary at the ends, became therefore re

quisite throughout the whole length ; and even the top
and bottom were considerably modified, as while over
hanging the pontoons at each end to the extent of
70 feet, the top, instead of being in compression, was
thrown into extension. Again, the tubes had to be raised
by being suspended freely from four chains, requiring
provisions for this support of a different character from
that which they needed when laid on their permanent
bed ; and further, the variation in the strains when the

four tubes were ultimately joined to form one continuous

tube --parts before in tension being then thrown into

   * The calculations for determining this, furnished by the author of
this chapter, -will be found in Section viii. chap. 3, of Mr. Clark's work.

1850.]  THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.  105

compression, and vice versd--required a suitable arrange

ment of the material : the effect of all these provisions

being to increase the quantity and modify the arrange

ment of the metal in the tube. In proportioning, there

fore, the parts of a structure destined for such usage, the
mere consideration of the strain to which, as an ordinary
beam, it would be subjected, formed but a part of the
problem, and no fair direct comparison can be made
between the weight of this bridge and that of an ordinary

beam.

   Mr. Stephenson was of opinion that some misapprehen
sion existed on the object and importance of the cells of
which the top and bottom of the tube were composed, as
well as on the choice of form of the tube ; and he has given
explanations to clear up both these points. He shows
that to collect the necessary quantity of material of the top
and bottom in single plates would have required the
former to be 2-7 inches, and the latter 2-3 inches thick ;

and had such plates been procurable, nothing better could
have been desired, and the cells would have been un

necessary.

   At that time, however, it was impossible to procure

plates of such a thickness, whose quality could be de
pended on ; and the engineer in this, as in numberless
other details, had to adopt what he could obtain. Now,
the arrangement of the plates in cells is almost the only
conceivable arrangement possible for getting the re

quired section, allowing access, at the same time, to
every part for construction and future maintenance.
This alone led to their use in the bottom of the tube,
where the form was quite indifferent. With respect to
the top, however, it was of great importance, since

106  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. in.

thick plates could not be had, to ascertain the best form
of cell for resistance to compression that could be de

vised with thin plates. A series of valuable experi

ments by Mr. Eaton Hodgkinson led to the rectangular
cells actually used, not because such form presented

any peculiar advantage over any other, as some have
imagined, but because these experiments demonstrated
that cells of that magnitude and thickness were inde
pendent of form, and were crushed only by the actual
crushing of the iron itself. Under these circumstances

the square cells were used as the best practical method
of obtaining the sectional area required

    Similar misapprehension has also existed as to the
considerations which led to the rectangular form of the

tubes themselves.

    The result of direct experiments made with round,

oval, and rectangular tubes --there being precisely the
same section and weight of metal in all three --was

that the circular tube was the weakest and the oval
tube the strongest, the rectangular form being inter
mediate. The oval tube was first studied with a view to

adoption. Its form, however, was not favourable either
for its practical construction, or for its connection with
the suspension chains, which were originally intended to
be used in the erection ; and practical considerations in

this case also dictated the use of the rectangular tube. It

must also be remarked that the result of experiments
made on oval, round, and rectangular wrought iron tubes,
when reduced to the same depth and compared, was in

favour of the rectangular form -- although, within ordinary

limits, the form was not proved to be a matter of great

importance.

1850.]  THE BRITANNIA BRIDGE.  107

    The centre or Britannia Eock tower is 230 feet high.
The base is 60 feet by 50 feet, and the size at the level
of the tube is 55 feet by 45. The pressure on the base is
 16 tons per superficial foot.

    The side towers are 18 feet lower than the Britannia
tower ; the base of each is 60 feet by 37 feet ; the size at
the level of the tube 59^ by 36^ feet. The great height
of the towers above the tubes was necessary for fixing
the hydraulic presses which raised these ponderous masses
into their places.

    The shore abutments are 35 feet lower than the side

towers.

    The internal work of the towers and abutments is of
Buncorn sandstone, with some brickwork. The exterior is
faced with Anglesea marble, from quarries in the carbo
niferous limestone at Benmaen, the northern extremity of
the island.

    The total quantity of masonry in the bridge is nearly
a million and a half cubic feet.

    The design of the bridge, as regards its architectural
character, must, considering the entire novelty of the
form, and the colossal dimensions of the structure, have

been an arduous thing to attempt. The object aimed at
was the adoption of such a character as would best accord
with the tubes, the external appearance of which is simply
a representation of beams of gigantic proportions. With
this view, a combination of the Egyptian and Grecian
styles was thought the most appropriate, the former as
applied to the general and more massive portions of the
design, and the latter to the less ponderous parts and to
the details generally. The colossal Hons on the ap
proaches, designed and executed by the late Mr. John

108      LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.               [Ch. in.

Thomas, were intended as allegorical representations of the
strength of the edifice and the boldness of the under

taking.  ·

     A colossal figure of Britannia was designed also by

Mr. Thomas for the centre tower, but the great expense

prevented its construction.

   It is unfortunate that the bridge consists of an even

number of spans, architectural beauty requiring an opening
in the centre and not a pier. But the existence of the
rock which determined the site of the bridge left no

option on this point.
   The total cost of the Britannia Bridge was a little over

£600,000. The ironwork cost £375,000 or nearly £33

per ton --a very high price, no doubt; but it must be recol

lected that at the time these contracts were made iron

was very dear, and the character of the work was
new. At the present day there would be no difficulty in

getting it for about half the sum.
   The cost of the experiments was about £5,300.

Since the bridge has been in use the deflection has

been carefully tested from time to time, and no perceptible

increase has taken place. The painting has been

attended to, and the tubes have been covered by a roof

to shelter the ironwork from the rain. Mr. Stephenson

continued to satisfy himself as to the condition of the

bridge until near his death, and gave the opinion that
he found it difficult to conceive that even the lapse of

centuries could in any way affect such a structure.

   It is to be hoped this opinion may be borne out by ex
perience, and that the bridge may prove one of the most
durable, as it certainly is one of the most remarkable, monu

ments of the science and enterprise of the present age.



1850.]  THE CONWAY BRIDGE.  109

                                Conway Bridge.

   A few words must be added relative to the Conway

Bridge, which has been mentioned incidentally in the
account of the larger structure. The difficulties here,

also, were formidable. It was necessary for the railway

to cross the Conway Eiver, a large estuary running high
up into the land. The average width is about three-
quarters of a mile, but advantage had been taken by Mr.
Telford of a rocky island intercepting the channel, to re
duce the width to a much smaller space, which he spanned
with a suspension bridge for the passage of the Holyhead
road. There could be no doubt that the proper site for
crossing with the railway must be close to that occupied by
the road ; but it was also evident that, on account of the

great depth at this point, 63 feet at high water, and the
fearful velocity with which the tide ran through it to
fill the large expanse above, it would be impossible either
to build any intermediate pier in the water way, or
to fix any centring or scaffolding for the erection of
the bridge. The span of the suspension bridge is 315
feet, but from the form of the rocks the least span that
could be obtained alongside it was 400 feet, and thus
the problem became, to erect a bridge of this width in

one span and without any fixed scaffolding. It will be

recollected that Mr. Stephenson's first idea for the Menai
Straits was to construct the bridge of large cast-iron
arches, and it was proposed to treat the Conway river in
a similar way, one colossal arch spanning the entire
opening. The principal difficulty was with the erection ;
the ingenious plan which Mr. Stephenson had contrived for

110  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. m.

the Britannia Bridge was inapplicable here, and he pro
posed to build the arch upon pontoons, which, when
the work was finished, were to be floated to the site,

and made to deposit the entire structure at once upon its

bearings.
    When, however, the arch scheme was abandoned for

the Menai Straits, it was also put aside for the Conway,
as it soon became apparent that the problem was essen
tially so identical in the two cases, that any design
adopted for the larger structure would, in all probabi
lity, be the most suitable for the smaller. Hence no
further special attention was given to the Conway crossing
till the general principles of the Britannia Bridge were
settled, after which the two designs progressed simul

taneously.

   It was, however, at the Conway Bridge, as has been

already stated, that the success of the great experiment
was first put to the test. The contract for the tubes was
let in October 1846 to Mr. Evans, who was already

executing the masonry. It was this enterprising man

who first proposed to construct the tubes entirely on the
site, a plan afterwards adopted at the Britannia Bridge
with so much advantage ; and in the case of the Conway
he undertook, at his own risk, the arduous and perilous
duty of floating the tubes and of erecting them complete
in their places, which he accomplished very successfully.
The contract price paid to him for the tubes fixed complete
was only about £4 per ton more than was given for the
tubes only at the larger structure. The first stone of
the bridge was laid May 12, 1846, but the manufac
ture of the tubes was not commenced till March 1847 ;

the first tube was tested in January 1848, floated to its

1846-50.]  THE CONWAY BRIDGE.  Ill

place in March, and- ultimately raised and in use for
railway traffic in April, a rapidity of execution highly
praiseworthy. The second tube was floated in October,
and the bridge was opened for traffic on the double line
in December 1848.

    There are two tubes, one for each line of railway ;
they are 400 feet long in the clear between the supports ;
the external height in the middle of the length is 25 feet
6 inches, diminishing to 22 feet 6 inches at the ends.
The height of the bottom of the tube above high-water
line is 17 feet. The general design of the tube cor
responds with that in the Britannia Bridge, but the
arrangement of the material is somewhat modified, from
the circumstance that the latter is designed to act as a
continuous beam, whereas the former is an independent
one. The tubes were constructed on the shore of the

estuary above the bridge, floated down to the site on
pontoons, and raised by hydraulic power, as in the
Britannia Bridge.

   The artistic design of the Conway tube will probably be
considered less successful than that of the Britannia

Bridge ; the situation is picturesque in the highest
degree, and the elegant suspension bridge rather added
to than diminished its beauty ; but the same remark
will hardly apply to the subsequent erection.

    An attempt was made to give a style corresponding to
that of the castle, but alterations subsequently introduced
into the construction, and the omission of the ornamental

parts to save expense, crippled the design ; and the cir
cumstance of the tubular bridge not being parallel to,
but considerably askew from the suspension bridge

immediately alongside, is a sad eyesore.

112  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. Ill

   The unfettered reign of private enterprise, which, under
the dictatorship of the engineer, has of late so much
prevailed in this country, has been no doubt a grand
source of works of commercial utility, but it has doomed
us to much bitter humiliation in matters of art and taste.

                                 W. P.

          113

          CHAPTEE IV*

       THE HIGH LEVEL BRIDGE AT NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.

     Object of the Bridge -- Ravine of the Tyne -- Ancient Bridge at a Low
     Level-- Inconveniences of the Passage -- Early Proposals for a High
     Level Bridge -- Mr. Green's Scheme -- High Level Bridge Company-- -
     Mr. Stephenson appointed Engineer --Newcastle and Darlington Bail-
     way -- Proposal for the Double Roadway -- Parliamentary Proceed
     ings --Description of the Bridge--The Piers -- The Iron Superstruc
     ture-- Mr. Stephenson's Motives for the Adoption of the Bowstring
     Girder -- Letting of the Contract-- Driving the Piles -- Manufacture of
     the Ironwork -- Erection -- Completion.

            bridge, although of less magnitude than either

THISof the two other large iron bridges selected for

illustration, is one of the most celebrated of Mr. Stephen

son's works. It has for its object to form a double

communication, by railway and by common road, at a
high level, between Newcastle on the north, and Gateshead
on the south bank of the river Tyne.

    The river runs through a deep valley or ravine, the
average level of the land on each side being about 100

feet above the water of the river. A bridge of consider

able antiquity, crossing at the bottom of the valley, formed
the only passage, and as the streets leading down from
the level part of the town on each side were exceedingly
steep, the passage from one elevated shore to the other was

VOL. II.  * This chapter is contributed by Professor Pole.
          I

114  LIFE OF KOBERT STEPIIENSON.     [Ch. IV.

fraught not only with much difficulty but with positive

clanger.                                                                 ·

   This, however, was endured for hundreds of years as a
necessary evil ; it was only about the commencement of
the present century that the idea of avoiding the difficulty

by a bridge at a higher level began to be seriously
entertained. The matter was first mooted by Mr. E. B.
Dodd, a local engineer, and a public meeting was held in
furtherance of the plan, which, however, did not meet
with any adequate support.

    About 1825 Mr. Telford proposed a bridge on the

present site, and other engineers are said to have renewed
the scheme from time to time ; but the project best
known was proposed, some years after Mr. Dodd's,

by the late Mr. John Green, an architect of Newcastle,
and an attempt was made to form a company to carry it
out, the chairman being Mr. John Hodgson Hinde, an
influential inhabitant of the town. The late Lord Grey
and several other gentlemen of local influence exerted

themselves to promote the measure, but the requisite
capital, £30,000, was not forthcoming from the public ;
while the corporation of the town felt they were not
warranted in incurring an enormous outlay, which could

not, they conceived, be reimbursed by any tolls they could
impose upon the traffic across it.*

   Mr. Hinde, however, still persevered. In 1843 he in

duced Mr. George Hudson to aid in the undertaking, and to
become vice-chairman of the company, and it was resolved
that Mr. George Stephenson should be consulted on the

   * The tolls on the carriage road  to above £4600 annually, or 15 per
only of the present bridge amount    cent, on Green's estimate.

1843-9.]   THE HIGH LEVEL BEIDGE.                            115

matter. Accordingly a new prospectus was drawn up

of the 'High Level Bridge Company,' in which his

name appeared on the direction, while that of his son

was appended as consulting engineer. George Stephen

son had a design prepared of a bridge with bowstring

girders and a double road, similar in its essential features
to that ultimately adopted ; but it was determined that

the application to Parliament should be made on Mr.

Green's plans and estimates, and that they should be re

modelled by Eobert Stephenson after the Act was

obtained.

On June 18, 1844, the Newcastle and Darlington line, '

laid out by George Stephenson as a portion of the

great trunk line by the east coast to Scotland, was opened

to public traffic, and completed the communication from
London to the Tyne. The terminus of this railway was

at Gateshead, and consequently the traffic was cut off by
the deep chasm of the river from the town of Newcastle,

and the railway isolated from the lines already made on

the north side, as well as from the proposed continuation

of the great trunk to Scotland.                              It
   The inconvenience of this was felt most severely.

was found, that nearly half a million local passengers

frequented the station in the course of a year; and as it

was situated on the high ground, they had to descend the

steep road, on a declivity of 1 in 8 or 9, to cross the
river, and ascend again by a similarly steep hill to the
plateau of Newcastle on the other, side. The cost of

conveyance of passengers and merchandise by coaches and

omnibuses across the river reached the enormous amount

of £1000 per week.                                agitation  took place re

   At this time a considerable

                                              i2

116  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                       [Ch. IV

specting the prolongation of the Scotch trunk line from

Newcastle to Berwick, for which the route had been

surveyed previously by George Stephenson ; and this

gave a renewed impetus to the question of the bridge. It
was seen that as the railway must, if possible, be made to

cross the Tyne, it would be highly advantageous to com
bine both railway and common road crossings in one

bridge, the expense of which, though too great to be
warranted by the road traffic only, might be very well

justified by the addition of that of the railway : and the

promoters of the new line wisely saw the advantage that

would accrue to their interests                in conjunction with
                                               if,
                                                                it

                                                                    it

                                                                             a
their works, they could offer to the town the boon of the

high-level carriage road crossing, which had been so long

desired. They accordingly took up the project of the
'
                                            '
High Level Bridge Company,' and by making                                       com

bined road and railway bridge, incorporated into their

railway survey as an integral part of the scheme.

   A rival line to Mr. Stephenson's, promoted by Lord

Howick, with Mr. Brunel as the engineer, was, however,

started this was to be worked on the atmospheric plan,*
     :

                                1
and was intended to cross the Tyne by bridge con
                                               a
                                                   a
siderably to the westward of the town, and at low level,

having gradients of in 50 on each side.

     The rival schemes came before Parliament in May

1845, and the High Level Bridge formed one of the most

prominent features of the Stephenson line. Mr. Eobert

Stephenson was examined at some length, and gave

a    full description of the proposed bridge.         Many

objections were raised by the. opposite party, on the

   * See the chapter on the Atmospheric Principle of Railway Propulsion.

                                                                                     I

1843-9.]  THE HIGH LEVEL BRIDGE.  117

grounds of the great height of the structure and of the

viaducts connecting it with the town --of the risk of

the trains running off-- of the danger of fire to the houses

from the projection of live coke from the engines --

of the chance of frightening horses on the carriage
road of the bridge by the noise of trains passing over

head ;--and the obstruction the bridge would cause to the

ventilation of the town.

    These objections were all answered. Mr. Stephenson
gave his strong opinion that the plan of the bridge pro
posed was the only one by which the objects aimed at

could be properly combined ; and after a hard and pro
longed contest, the bill for Mr. Stephenson's line passed,
including in it the sanction for the erection of the High
Level Bridge across the Tyne.

    Mr. Stephenson at once put the design in hand, and

the drawings were prepared, under his immediate direction,

by his assistant, Mr. Thomas E. Harrison, who afterwards

became resident engineer on the line, and is still consult
ing engineer to the larger 'North Eastern ' system in which
it is now incorporated.

    The roadway across the bridge consists of two plat
forms ; the upper one carries three fines of railway, while
the lower forms the common public road. The approaches
of the railway are curves in contrary directions, but those
of the public road are in a straight continuation of the
line of the bridge. The height of the rails on the upper
platform above the low water of the river is 120 feet.
The level of the carriage road is about 23 feet lower than
that of the railway.

   The bridge stands about 90 yards to the west of the

118  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. TV.

old bridge. The river at this spot is 515 feet wide at
high water; but as the bridge has to cover also the
sloping shores on each side, its whole length is 1,372 feet.
There are six large openings, each of 125 feet span in the
clear, stretching over the river and the flat portions of the

banks, the slopes being covered by smaller abutment

arches up to the high level on either side.
    The piers, some of which, from foundation to summit,

are as much as 146 feet high, are built of a hard
and durable sandstone, obtained from quarries in the

neighbouring coal formation. They are founded on piles,
the spaces between which are filled up with concrete.
Many of the piles are 40 feet long, and all are driven
through the hard sand and gravel forming the bed of
the river, till they reach the solid rock below. The piles

are 13 inches square, and are placed 4 feet apart from
centre to centre. The greatest weight that can come
upon each of them is 70 tons, supposing none to be
carried by the intervening spaces of concrete. This
is a very heavy load, which could only be warranted
by the goodness of the strata into which the piles are

driven. In moderately compact clay it is usual to consider

the maximum bearing power of a pile to be about 12 tons ;
in hard clay about 25 tons ; but in gravel, of which the
bed of the Tyne consists, 70 or 80 tons are often allowed ;
indeed, many engineers consider the bearing power in
such strata only limited by the resistance of the fibre of

the timber. In this case also, the feet of the piles rest on

the solid rock, which puts all doubt at rest as to their
stability.. Mr. Stephenson, however, with his characteristic
desire to satisfy his mind thoroughly on the point, tested
one of the piles by laying on it a load of 150 tons, which

1843-9.]  THE HIGH LEVEL BRIDGE.

was allowed to remain for several days; but on its re

moval no settlement whatever had taken place.
   The masonry of the piers commences about 2 feet

below low-water level. The lower portions in' the
stream are provided with cutwaters. The foundation
surface of each pier is about 76^ feet by 22^ ; the
section of the tall shaft of the pier is about 46 feet by

14 feet, lightened by an arched opening 12 feet wide.

    But the most important part of the work is the iron
 superstructure, and it will be interesting to consider the
 motives which led Mr. Stephenson to a decision as to the
 nature of the structure by which the openings were to be

spanned. It will be seen by reference to the historical
notice in Chapter II., that in 1845, when this work was

- designed, the science of iron bridge construction was
 only partially developed. The experiments for the
Britannia Bridge, which had ultimately the effect
 of bringing wrought-iron girders into use, had but just
 commenced, and the only kinds of iron bridges then

adopted for large spans were --the suspension bridge --
the compound trussed girder--the cast-iron arch -- and the

bowstring girder. We may therefore conceive Mr.
Stephenson considering the applicability of each of these
systems in turn. The suspension bridge would have
answered well enough for the common roadway, but it
was inapplicable to the railway from its want of rigidity.
Mr. Stephenson had indeed, just at this time, investi
gated carefully the possibility of its application to the
Britannia Bridge, and decided against its fitness for railway
purposes. The compound girder of cast-iron, trussed
with wrought-iron bars, had been used by Mr. Stephenson

120  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. IV.

somewhat extensively, and was at this time being ap
plied by him to the Chester Bridge of 100 feet span ;
but he probably shrunk from extending a construction
yet scarcely tried to dimensions so much larger, and to a

situation so much more perilous than anything previously

encountered.

    The cast-iron arch must at first sight have recom
mended itself strongly for adoption. Its principles were
thoroughly known ; its strength and stability were indu
bitable ; and it would have made by far the handsomest
structure in an architectural point of view. But to Mr.

Stephenson's far-seeing and eminently cautious professional
judgment, objections revealed themselves which he did
not feel himself able satisfactorily to overcome. Arches .
involve outward thrust at their extremities, and to resist

this thrust, so as to keep the whole structure in perfect
equilibrium, great stability in the piers and abutments is
absolutely essential. Now this quality Mr. Stephenson
did not see his way to insuring. The piers were of
great height, and economy demanded all possible saving
in their bulk ; so that they would stand up from
the depth below as long slender legs, on the top of
which it would be highly injudicious to allow any
considerable oblique strain to fall ; and though the
arches on each side of any pier might theoretically
be supposed to counteract each other's thrust, and
to throw the resultant strain vertically down the body
of the pier, Mr. Stephenson's experience told him this
could not in practice be relied on. But more than
this, he anticipated difficulty with the foundations of
the piers ; he knew by his borings he should meet
with treacherous strata ; and by calculation of the

1843-9.]  THE HIGH LEVEL BRIDGE.  121

weight each pier would have to support, he found that

his bearing piles must sustain a very heavy and un
usual load. Under these circumstances he considered

a slight settlement of the piers as a . contingency quite
possible, and which he could not with certainty avoid
by the utmost skill and care. And as such a settle
ment would have endangered in a serious degree the
equilibrium of any arches resting upon the piers, he
deemed it prudent to give up the idea of using the arch
system of construction, to which, it is well known, in

suitable cases he had a strong leaning.

    There only remained therefore the bowstring girder,
a form which fortunately combined all the requisite condi

tions. It was. simple in principle, strong and stable,

well understood, and entirely free from the objections
to the arch, inasmuch as, like all other girders, it
was self-equilibrated, gave nothing but vertical weight
upon the piers, and would allow of a slight settlement in
them without serious danger. Moreover, the form of this
girder was eminently adapted for the double roadway, the
top of the arch being at a suitable level for the stiff plat
form of the rails, while the horizontal tie, or string of
the bow, denned the lighter carriage road. Thus Mr.
Eobert Stephenson's comprehensive and acute practical
reasoning enabled him to justify, and indeed to reproduce,
 the design which had originally occurred to his father.

    He had already built, on the London and Birmingham
 Railway some years before, handsome bridges of the
 same construction, 50 feet span, which, although they
had only one roadway to carry, had a double horizontal

bar, above and below, as if they carried two ; and it

is not improbable that this feature (introduced there

122  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. IV.

chiefly for stiffness) may have suggested the peculiar ap
plicability of the form of girder to the purpose of carrying

a double road.

   Whether, if the High Level Bridge had been designed

ten years later, Mr. Stephenson would have adopted the
bowstring arch in preference to wrought-iron girders, it
is difficult to say : the latter would certainly have been
lighter and cheaper, but it would be difficult to find any
form of girder, even with all our modern knowledge, that

would make so appropriate, so substantial, and at the

same time so handsome a bridge as that actually built.

It was a mistake in the architectural design to put a pier

in the centre instead of a space, but probably this was

determined by engineering considerations.

    Each span or bay is crossed by four main girders, the
chief feature of each girder consisting of a cast-iron arch
or bow, the ends of which are connected together, and
the thrust taken, by a wrought-iron tension rod or tie.

    The rise of the cast-iron arch is 17 feet 6 inches, or a little

less than one-seventh of the span. It is made in five seg

ments, strongly bolted and accurately fitted together ; the
depth is 3 feet 6 inches at the crown ; the section is that
of a double-flanged girder, having 133 square inches area
of metal in the two outer girders, and 189 inches in
the inner ones, which have more weight to support.
The tension ties, or strings of the bow, consist of flat
wrought-iron bars, 7 inches by 1 inch, each outer girder
being tied by four of these, and each internal girder by
eight. The girders are all strongly braced together with
diagonal frames.

   The railway platform is placed above the top of the

1843-9.]  THE HIGH LEVEL BRIDGE.  123

arches, a series of pillars being carried up throughout         ·
the spandrels, so as to support entablature beams lying
horizontally above them the whole length of the bridge.
Cast-iron cross-bearers rest on these, extending in one
length over the four main girders ; theses again support
longitudinal timber joists, on which a flooring of double
diagonal planking, jointed and tongued with hoop iron, and
well caulked with pitch, is laid ; the three lines of rail are
fastened down to the planking in the ordinary way.

    The lower roadway for common traffic is hung from the

arches by wrought-iron suspending rods, bearing longi
tudinal beams similar to those of the top platform, and

upon these cross-bearers rest, carrying a double planked
roadway in like manner. This is paved with wood-blocks
set in pitch, and covered with sand and gravel.

    The four girders are so placed as to leave space for a
carriage-way between the two inner ones, with footways
between these and the outer girders on each side. The
carriage-way is a little over 20 feet wide, and the two
footways are 6 feet each. The total width of the bridge
from outside to outside is about 46 feet.

    Fig. 7 shows an elevation, and fig. 8 a transverse sec
tion of one of the spans of the bridge, from which a
general idea of its structure may be obtained. The
general elevation is given, on a small scale, in plate at
p. 71 of this volume.

    Provision is made for the expansion and contraction of
the iron superstructure by fixing the girders firmly to the
first, middle, and fifth piers, and making them free to move
on the second and fourth, as well as on both the abut

ments. There are no rollers, but the bearings have sur
faces fitted for sliding on each other. The motion caused
by a variation of temperature of 32 degrees was found

LIFE OF KOBERT STEPHENSON.  [Oh. IV.

by experiment to be 0-153
of an inch for each span.

   The land abutments are

founded upon a bed of strong
clay, which underlies the sand

and gravel, no piles being
used. They are built of stone
similar to the piers, and are

of handsome design, carrying

the roadways over the slopes
on each side by masonry
arches of solid construction.

Designs were made for orna

mental entrances to the bridge,
in keeping with the decorative
features of the structure ; but

as the authorities of the rail
way and the town grudged the
few hundreds of pounds ne
cessary for their erection, the
work is left incomplete.

   The contract for the bridge

was let on August 17, 1846,
and the work was commenced

in October; but many diffi
culties occurred in driving the
piles which considerably re
tarded the progress of the
work ; and among others the
peculiar effect of ebb and flow
during this operation was
thought by Mr. Stephenson

1843-9.]  THE HIGH LEVEL BRIDGE.  125

worthy of special notice in an engineering point of view,      "

as being not generally observed. During flood tide
the sand became so hard as to resist almost entirely
the utmost efforts of driving, while at ebb it was quite

loose, and in no way hindered the operation. It was

found necessary to abandon the driving on many occasions
during the entrance of the tide.

    Another difficulty arose from the quicksands beneath
the foundations. Although the piles were driven to the
rock the water found its way up, baffling the attempts
to fill in between them; this, however, was ultimately
remedied by using a concrete made of broken stone and
Roman cement, which was continually thrown in till the
bottom was found to be secure.

    The piles were driven by Nasmyth's steam pile-driver,
this being one of the first cases in which it was used ; and
by its quick action the driving was effected in much less
time than by the ordinary means. The ram of the engine
weighed a ton and a half, and had a fall of 2 feet 9

inches. It was worked incessantly night and day,

driving at the rate of sixty or.seventy strokes per minute ;
and in several instances the pile-heads burst into flame, and

burnt fiercely under this rapid action of the ram. It was

found by an experiment that after a pile had been driven
with the ordinary machine as far as it would go, the ap
plication of the steam driver would force it down 15

feet farther.

    The coffer-dams for the piers were formed of double
rows of piles, filled in with clay puddle ; when they were
removed, the piles were not drawn, but were cut off level
with the bed of the river by a circular saw, the lower
parts being left to protect the foundations as well as to
avoid disturbing the ground by their extraction.

126  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                |"Ch. IV.

   The ironwork of the superstructure was manufactured
by Messrs. Hawkes, Crawshay and Co., of Newcastle; but
before any of it was made, Mr. Stephenson instituted a
large series of experiments upon different kinds and
different mixtures of cast iron, with the view of ascertainr

ing what description of metal would be most advan
tageous for the purposes of the bridge. These experi
ments were made with great care, and Mr. Stephenson
considered them the most extensive as well as the

most accurate series then existing.           They are 'printed

in full detail in the Eeport of the Eoyal Commission on

the Application of Iron to Eailway Structures, 1849.
They led Mr. Stephenson to the following conclusions : --

     1. That hot blast iron was less certain in its result*

than cold blast.

     2. That mixtures of cold blast iron were more uniform

than those of hot blast.

3. That mixtures of hot and cold blast iron together

gave the best results.
    4. That simple samples did not run so solid as mixtures.
    5. That simple samples sometimes ran too hard and

sometimes too soft for practical purposes.
    As far as the construction of the bridge was concerned,

the result was that the iron for the principal parts, namely
the arch ribs and transverse girders, was selected of
the following mixture : --

     Ystalifera anthracite       (No. 3)   .  . 40 cwt.
     Resdale, hot blast                    ·
                                              . 40 »
     Crawshay (Welsh), cold blast (No. 1)     . 40 n
     Blaenavon, cold blast                    . 30 n
                                              . 30 V
     Coalbrook Dale, cold blast  »
                                                            n

The first heavy casting was made in February 1847.

Each arch was temporarily erected at the manufacturers'



1843-9.1  THE HIGH LEVEL BRIDGE.  127

works and tested before removal, and all the detached

parts received a separate test previously to their final

trial.

    The total quantity of masonry in the bridge is 686,000
cubic feet ; the weight of ironwork is 5,050 tons. The
cost of the entire work, including that of the temporary
bridge, was £243,000.

    The iron superstructure was erected on centres sup
ported by scaffolding from below, which likewise answered
the purpose of carrying the temporary roadways at dif
ferent stages of the work. Each bay was divided by a
timber pier, leaving a clear opening on each side of about
53 feet ; the parts on which each segment of the cast-iron
arch rested being strutted from the sides. The seg
ments were lowered to their places by a large traverser
or ' Goliah,' running on a tramway about 3 feet below
the rail level.

    So much importance was attached to getting the rail
way traffic across the ravine as soon as possible, that it was
thought worth while to erect alongside the scaffolding
a temporary bridge of timber, which anticipated by a
year the opening of the main structure.

    The bridge was examined and passed by the Govern
ment Eailway Inspector on August 13, 1849, and was
formally opened by the Queen in the month following.

                                  W. P.

   128      LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                          [Ch. V.

                              .CHAPTEE V.

   AFFAIKS, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE, DURING THE CONSTRUCTION
                 OF THE CHESTER AND HCfLTHEAD RAILWAY.

                              (iEtat. 42-47.)

   Newcastle and Berwick Line -- The High Level Bridge -- Trent
   Valley Line -- Leeds and Bradford Line -- Italian Trip in 1845 --
   Norwegian Trip in 1846 -- Norwegian Liberality -- Irish Famine --

   Lord George Bentinck's Proposal to subsidise Irish Railway Com
   panies -- Robert Stephenson, George Hudson, and Mil. Laing con
   sulted -- Lord George Bentinck's Speech in the House of Commons --

   Election to the Council and Vice-Presidency of the Institute of
   Civil Engineers -- Narrow Escape on the Chester and Holyhead
   Railway -- Death of George Stephenson -- Relations between Father
   and Son -- Elected Fellow of Royal Society -- Grand Banquet at
   Newcastle -- Summary of his Railways -- High Level Bridge opened
                   -- Robert
   by the   Queen     Valley  Stephenson declines the Honour of Knight
            'Nene             Drainage and Navigation Lnprovement
   hood --

   Commissioners '-- Appointed Engineer with Sir John Rennie to the
   'Norfolk Estuary Company' -- Consulted by the Town Council of
   Liverpool as to the best Means of supplying Liverpool with Water--
   Grand Central Station at Newcastle opened by the Queen --
   Royal Border Bridge opened by the Queen -- Statistics relating to
   Royal Border Viaduct -- Robert Stephenson desirous of Rest.

                                  with the progress of the tubular

SIMUbrLidTgAesNEoOn UthSeLYChester and Holyhead Line, Eobert
had upon his hands other important works -- the Newcastle

and Berwick Line, the Trent Valley Line, and many
other railways ; the High Level Bridge uniting the iron

roads on the north and south banks of the Tyne,-- and the

Eoyal Border Bridge, spanning the Tweed, and forming a

*

1845.]      THE HIGH LEVEL BRIDGE.                129

link between the railway systems of England and

Scotland !

   The session of 1845 saw the act passed by which the
promoters of the present Newcastle and Berwick Line

were empowered to carry the Great Northern Line still

farther north. It is needless here to recount minutely

the opposition and defeat of Brunel and Lord Howick,

who (the atmospheric mania being then at its height)
opposed the adoption of the, locomotive system on that

important route between the Tyne and the Tweed. The

same session also granted permission for the construction

of the High Level Bridge, a scheme which had been

under discussion during the four previous years.

While the foundations of the High Level Bridge were

being formed, the works on the Newcastle and Berwick
and the Trent Valley Lines were pushed on vigorously.

The viaduct over the Tweed was also under progress.

By July 1, 1846, Eobert Stephenson, aided by Mr. T. L.

Gooch, had the Leeds and Bradford Line ready for public

use. On June 26, 1847, the Trent Valley Eailway (on
which line Mr. Bidder and Mr. Thomas Longridge Gooch

were co-engineers with Eobert Stephenson) was opened

for public traffic. In the following month the Newcastle

and Berwick Line was regularly used for the conveyance

of goods and passengers. There remained only to finish

the great bridges over the Tyne arid Tweed, and so
complete an unbroken chain from the capital of Scotland
to the metropolis of Great Britain. Other minor lines

were also under construction at the same time.

But full as his hands were of home work, Eobert

Stephenson found time to superintend railway opera

tions in foreign countries. In the summer of 1845,

VOL. II.    K

130  LIFE OF EOBERT STEPHENSOX.  [Ch. V.

he joined the Committee formed for carrying out the late
Prince Consort's suggestion for a Grand Industrial Ex
hibition ; and he offered the Committee a loan of £1,000

for preliminary expenses. In the autumn he visited Italy.
In the long vacation of the following year, severely worn

by the harass of committee-room contests and continued
application to the concerns of his various undertakings,
he broke away from business for a trip of pleasure in

Norway. Mr. Bidder was his companion ; but no sooner
had the two friends become accustomed to the change of
having nothing but pleasure to think about, than the
Norwegian government consulted them on the policy of
uniting Christiania and the Miosen Lake by a railway.
So impressed was Eobert Stephenson with the wisdom of

the proposition, that he offered to defray.half the expense

of surveying the line of country. In that year, however,

the scheme did not proceed beyond consultation. The

affair was held over for four years, when (in 1850)
Eobert Stephenson, having had further negotiations with
the authorities of the state, sent out English engineers
who made the requisite survey, to cover the cost of which

he contributed, as a loan, the sum of £800. The line at

length mapped out, the works were commenced and
carried on with spirit, Eobert Stephenson being retained
as Engineer-in-chief. The autumn of each of the years
1851, 1852, and 1854 saw Eobert Stephenson in Nor

way superintending the operations. In 1859 he went

there to receive the congratulations and thanks of the
country on the completion of the enterprise, returning in
his death-sickness to the coast, of England. On his
death, his executors made a demand for his professional
services on the contractors, who forthwith paid the fee,

1846.]  THE IRISH FAMINE.  131

hardly earned and justly due. On seeking reimburse
ment, however, from the Norwegian government, the

contractors were informed that the pecuniary remune

ration was not 'in the bond.' Norway had already paid
the engineer with the cross of St. Olaff. The grateful
country also repaid the loan of £800, held for several

years without interest.
    Other work also came upon Eobert Stephenson in

1846. Famine had raised the sufferings of the Irish poor

to a point unprecedented -- even in Ireland. For once

the humane could calculate with certainty on benevolent

cooperation from the most selfish. In every quarter the
question was heard -- how can our fellow-countrymen be
saved from starvation ? Lord George Bentinck was earnest
in urging government to subsidise Irish Eailway Companies

with funds, so that the crisis might be tided over by
stimulating the demand for labour. Ireland, argued
Lord George Bentinck, had food enough for her poor,
but the poor had no money to give in exchange for it.

If every man in Ireland willing and able to work could

only find employment, there would be an end of the
exceptional wretchedness. There were grounds for this

view of the case. Irish railway projectors sent repre
sentation after representation to Lord George Bentinck,
that though they had obtained their acts of parliament,
and in some instances had embarked large sums on

works, they found themselves suddenly brought to a
stand-still by the impossibility of raising funds in the

disorganised state of Irish commerce. It was even

urged, that bridges and other works on the eve of com

pletion had been stopped under circumstances that caused

enormous loss to Irish speculators. Before stirring in

132       LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. V.

Parliament, Lord George Bentinck consulted Mr. George
Hudson, Eobert Stephenson, and Mr. Laing. They were
strongly in favour of subsidising the Irish Eailway Com
panies. With conscientious anxiety to give the country
nothing but sound advice, Eobert Stephenson despatched
Mr. Samuel Bidder to Ireland to examine the state of

public works.

   Mr. Samuel Bidder writes :--

   Before Mr. Stephenson would give any opinion on the subject,
he wished to ascertain the facts as to the amount of work said to

Ihave been already executed. Having received instructions and

plans of the lines from Mr. Stephenson, made the best of my

way to the several points where it was reported that bridges had

been nearly built, and cuttings half finished ; but in almost
Ievery instance found that not a brick had been laid, a sod cut,
Ior one shilling expended, and so reported to Mr. Stephenson.
I. . . .
          was also requested by Mr. Stephenson to notice,
Ias passed through the country, the kind of work that was being

done for the employment of the poor under what was called

Ithe Government Staff. Large gangs found employed in what
I could call by no other name than the total destruction of the
highways. For the purpose of easing the gradients of the hills

they were removing the crust from the roads, which had taken
years to consolidate ; and this was carried on in such a manner

Ias to endanger the life of every traveller. Many coaches were

upset, and don't believe a single road was ever improved by

the work. It would have been much better to have fed the

people and saved the roads.

   Notwithstanding the misrepresentations made to Lord

George Bentinck, the great fact still remained. Famine

was mowing down the destitute Irish by thousands. It

was clear that the statements of Irish speculators ought

not to be accepted without enquiry ; but at the same time,
it was evident that ' labour' was the grand remedy for the

evil, and that while Ireland had need of railways, she had

1847.]  LOKD GEORGE BENTINCK'S SPEECH.  133

 a vast army of workmen, who were either unemployed

 or had been set to useless or hurtful tasks.

    Under these circumstances, Lord George Bentinck, on

February 4, 1847, moved --' That leave be given to bring

in a bill for the prompt and profitable employment of the
people by the encouragement of railroads in Ireland.' In
his speech, introducing the motion, Lord George ob
serves :--

  IHow many men can you, by your scheme, find employment

for ? We know by experience --at least know by information
from Mr. Stephenson, the engineer of the line --that the London

and Birmingham Railway employed 100 men per mile in its
construction for four consecutive years. The London and Bir
mingham Line, however, was one far more expensive in its
works than the Irish lines, of which the outside average cost is
estimated at £16,000 per mile. The estimate of Mr. Stephenson
is, that, taking one line with another throughout Ireland, to
execute the whole of them would require the services of sixty men
per mile for four consecutive years. Sixty men per mile for
1,500 miles would give constant employment for four consecutive
years to 90,000 men on the earthworks and line alone ; but it
is estimated that the employment given to quarrymen, artificers,
and others, not actually engaged upon the bine of road, would
occupy six men per mile for the whole number of miles under
construction. This would give 9,000 men more ; to which is to
be added-- that which experience teaches us is the fact -- that

when a new railway passes through a country, the new fences to be
made, the fields to be squared, the new drains and water-courses

to be cut, and the new roads to be constructed, also occupy at
least six men per mile, which will give 9,000 men more, making
altogether a total number of 108,000 men. But there are other
miscellaneous employments to which the expenditure of so large
a sum of money necessarily gives rise, and it is thought to be
putting the number very low when we estimate the able-bodied
men required to be employed at high wages, in order to accom
plish 1,500 miles of railway in Ireland, at 110,000, representing
with their families 550,000 persons.

134  LIFE OF ROBERT STETHENSON.  [Cn. V.

   But by this proposition we must expect not only to be able to

give subsistence to 550,000 persons, but we seek to provide also
for the comforts of these poor people in the course of their em
ployment. We have not forgotten the interests of the labourers ;

»»»»*#following out the recommendation of the report of the Eail way

Labourers' Committee, we have inserted in our bill clauses

obliging the companies to see that their contractors pay the
wages of the labourers once a week, and that in hard cash.
   But this is not the only point in which we consider the interests
of the railway labourer, and this suggestion comes from my

honourable friend Mr. Stephenson. It is that the companies

shall be required, on the demand of the Bailway Commissioners,
to construct decent and suitable dwellings for the labourers before
they commence their works. Nothing can be stronger than the
language used in the report which Hes on the table on this point.

It states truly, that it is in vain to think of improving the morals

of the people except you begin by improving their social con

dition. In practice, however, it has been found that railway

labourers have been generally crowded into dwellings and put in
places not fit for pigs. Some may think this measure an inter

Iference with free trade in the construction of railways ; but

understand, from all the best contractors in the kingdom, that
it is cheaper to them in the end to consult the convenience

and comforts of their labourers. Experience teaches that if a

man is uncomfortable at home, he will go to the public-house ;
and that where labourers cannot be comfortably provided for,
and have no opportunities for bringing their wives with them,
they will get tired of their work, and desert it altogether.

   This was Eobert Stephenson's scheme for Irish Eelief.

His care and labour, however, proved all in vain. On
the third night of discussion, Lord George Bentinck's bill
was ' put off for six months ' by the votes of a full

House.

    In the following summer Eobert Stephenson himself

entered the House of Commons, as member for Whitby.

    Having acted as Member of the Council of the Institution

1848.]  GEOEGE STEPHENSON'S DEATH.                               135

of Civil Engineers from 1845 to the close of 1847, Eobert
Stephenson became a Vice-President of that learned
Society in 1848, which office he held till the close of
1855, when he took possession of the Presidential chair for

the years' 1856 and 1857.

   In the: year 1848 he met with an accident, which may

be briefly noticed. On August 20, accompanied by his
friend Mr. Lee, he entered a first-class railway carriage
in the Conway Station ; when, as soon as they had taken
their seats, the carriage was pushed across the down line
in order, that it might be put in position on another pair
of rails. ' Before the carriage was quite clear of the down
line, the Chester ' express,' coming up at full speed, caught
its projecting angle and threw it about a yard from the
rails, smashing the glass doors, wheels, and frame-work.
Immediately after the concussion, Eobert Stephenson was

seen , descending the steps. In another half minute, he
was observed to fall on his back, the shock of the collision
having deprived him of power to walk. Mr. Lee, who
had seen the approach of the ' express,' and had provided

for the accident by pressing his back and feet firmly to
the padded sides of the carriage, escaped unhurt. The
next morning Eobert Stephenson was well enough to pro

ceed to Chester.

   Just eight days before this narrow escape, death gave
Eobert Stephenson the severest blow he had experienced
since he put his wife in her grave at Hampstead. On

August 12, 1848, George Stephenson died suddenly, after
a brief illness, in the sixty-seventh year of his age. His

death was altogether unexpected ; only seven months

before,* he had married a young wife, and even on the

* George Stephenson married his third wife on January 11, 1848.

136  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. V.

day of his death was looking forward to many years of

happiness.
    The closing years of George Stephenson's life were

bright with success. He had seen the locomotive brought
from the rudeness and imperfection of the Killingworth

Engines to an efficiency that has not yet been greatly
surpassed, and he had seen his son rise to be the leader
of his profession.

   Eobert Stephenson had always been a devoted son. In
all his quarrels and contests, George Stephenson was sure
of his sympathy and support. But of all the modes by
which the latter endeavoured to add to his father's happi
ness, the most beautiful was his habit of uniting him in
the glory of his achievements. When the designs for the
High Level Bridge and the Tubular Bridges were under
discussion in the elder Stephenson's presence, the son
always spoke of them as ' our works at the Straits,' or,
' our bridge over the Tyne.' In this graceful manner did
Robert repay the love of the father, who inscribed the
name of ' his boy ' on the first plans of the Stockton and
Darlington Line. On George Stephenson's death, the
portrait of Eobert, painted by Lucas, passed (in ac
cordance with the understanding between the subscribers
for it and the elder Stephenson, to whom it was pre
sented for life) into the possession of the Newcastle
Literary and Philosophical Society. The picture was
painted in 1845.

    George Stephenson left great wealth behind him, but

even if Eobert had loved his father much less than he did,

an accession of wealth would have been no consolation to

him for the bereavement. By his own exertions, he had
acquired as much wealth as he desired. Without a child,

1849.] ELECTED FELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY.  137

unmarried, and resolved never to marry again, he had no

ambition to be very rich.

   A distinction highly prized by men of science was con

ferred on the inventor of the Tubular Bridge in 1849.
He was elected a Fellow of the Eoyal Society, on the

council of which learned society he subsequently sat.

   At this period Robert Stephenson turned his attention
to other fields of engineering. In 1848 he was consulted

by the Eiver Nene Improvement Committee, who were
interested in the improvement of the river between

Peterborough and the county boundary near "Wisbeach.
From that date up to the time of his death he maintained
a professional connection with the ' Nene Valley Drainage
and Navigation Improvement Commissioners.' *

   In the following year he and Sir John Eennie were

appointed Engineers-in-chief of the Norfolk Estuary
Company, at which time he reported on the Norfolk

Estuary Scheme, and was examined thereon by the
Admiralty Commissioners and both Houses of Parliament.
The matters which for years remained in protracted
' dispute between the Norfolk Estuary Company and the
Eau Brink Commissioners, relating to the mode of exe
cuting a cut and works below Lynn, under the Norfolk
Estuary Acts,'- would little interest the general reader,
but they involved important interests, and for years gave
the engineers concerned in them much anxiety and

labour.

    At the close of 1849 the Liverpool Town Council

   * River Nene. Report of Robert     passed at a Public Meeting held at
Stephenson, Esq., M.P.;G. P. Bidder,  Wisbeach, Sept. 10, 1857, with a
                                      Prefatory Letter from Mr. Robert
Esq., and Geo. Rob. Stephenson,
Esq., on the Improvement of the       Stephenson, 1858.
River Nene, pursuant to resolutions

   133    LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                             [Oh. V.

   consulted Eobert Stephenson as to the best means for
   securing an adequate supply of water to the town of
   Liverpool. The conclusions of the engineer on this
   subject may be found in a report sent in to the
   Water-Committee of the town council on March 28,

   1850.

   On Tuesday, July 30, 1850, Eobert Stephenson was en

   tertained at a grand banquet by four hundred gentlemen

   on the platform of the new railway station, in the Forth,

   at Newcastle. Three excellent cartoons        (the work of
                                                 John Gibson,
   Newcastle artists --Mr. John Storey, Mr.

   and Mr. E. S. Scott), representing the engineer's grandest

   works -- the High Level Bridge, the Menai Tubular

   Bridge, and the Eoyal Border Viaduct, ornamented the
   enclosed space. The chair was occupied by the Hon.
   H. T. Liddell, the son of George Stephenson's first patron,
   Lord Eavensworth.

      Proposing on this occasion the health of Mr. Thomas

   Harrison, Eobert Stephenson said : --

   No one felt more intensely than he did the value of the assistance

   which he had derived from those who had been associated with
   Ifhim for some years past.
                                   they would read the biographies

'  of all their old distinguished    engineers,   they would be   struck
   with the excessive detail into  which they    had been drawn  ; when

   intelligence was not so widely diffused as at present, an engineer

   like Smeaton or Brindley had not only to conceive the design,

   but had to invent the machine and carry out every detail of the

   conception ; but since then a change had taken place, and no

   change was more complete. The principal engineer now had only

   to say let this be done, and it was speedily accomplished, such

   was the immense capital, and such the ample resources of mind

   which were immediately brought into play. He had himself,

   within the last ten or twelve years, done little more than

   exercise a general superintendence ; and there were many other

1850.]  NEED OF BEST.  139

persons in that room to whom the works referred to by the
chairman ought to be almost entirely attributed. He had had
little or nothing to do with many of them beyond giving his
name, and exercising a gentle control in some of the principal

works. In that particular district, especially, he had been
most fortunate in being associated with Mr. Thomas Harrison.
Beyond drawing the outline, he (Mr. Stephenson) had no right

to claim any credit for the works above where they now sat. Upon
Mr. Harrison the whole responsibility of their execution had
fallen, and he believed they had been executed without a single
flaw.

    The completion of Eobert Stephenson's Northumbrian
works had another and still more memorable cele

bration.

    When the Queen opened the High Level Bridge in

 1849, she was so cordially received by her Northumbrian

 subjects, that she readily consented to repeat her visit to
 Newcastle and Berwick in the following year, at the open
 ing of the Grand Central Station at the former, and the
 completion of the ' Eoyal Border Viaduct ' at the latter
 place. As soon as it was known that Her Majesty would
 visit Castle Howard, the Earl of Carlisle's seat in Yorkshire,

 in order that she might conveniently be present at both

 towns during the same day, and reach Holyrood Palace

 before the evening, great exertions were made on the

 banks of the Tyne and Tweed to give her an appropriate

 welcome, on August 29, 1850.

    In the evening of that day a dinner took place at the

 Assembly-rooms, the mayor occupying the chair, and

 Eobert Stephenson sitting by his side. The engineer had
 just declined the honour of knighthood, which Her

 Majesty had expressed her readiness to confer upon him.
 He had reached a point of life and fame when such

 rank could afford him neither pleasure nor profit. If

140  LIFE OF BOBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. V.

his wife had been still alive he might have decided

otherwise.

   The opening of the Eoyal Border Bridge is an impor

tant point in the life of Eobert Stephenson. It was the

last of the great works with which he enriched his native

land -- the grand conclusion of many years of toil that

scarcely knew relaxation. The preceding ten years had

added much to his glory, but they also had made cruel
inroads upon his physical power. From 1840 to 1850,
he had never known a day free from grave care. No sooner

was one stupendous undertaking brought to a close,
than others rose to take its place. For the greater portion
of that time he had under his care many distinct affairs,
any one of which would have overtasked the powers of a

man of ordinary capacity. It had been a long fierce

struggle with difficulties. The atmospheric contest, the
battle of the gauges, the tubular bridges, the catastrophe
at Chester, were features of the retrospect.

   It was now time that he should rest in some degree

from labour.

   He formed a plan of withdrawing gradually from

professional turmoil ; and if he only in part carried out

this resolution, the fact is not to be attributed to change
of intention, but to the determination of others to make

use of him to the last. So far, however, did he adhere to

his purpose, that he never again entered upon any impor
tant undertaking at home. He was always ready to give
advice to his professional brethren, and indicate the course

to be adopted by projectors who sought his counsel.
But he never again became personally responsible for
the success of an important work in Great Britain. And

if foreign powers had allowed him to follow his own

1850.]  PKESSURE OF WORK.  141

inclinations, he would most probably till his dying
day have remained content with the fame which he
had won. But such complete freedom from respon
sibility was not permitted. The Norwegian government
solicited him to make good his promise to give them a
railway ; Egypt begged him to introduce the new loco
motion to the inhabitants of the desert ; and from the other

side of the Atlantic a petition came that he would throw
a tubular bridge over the St. Lawrence.

142  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VI.

                          CHAPTER VL

ROBERT STEMENSON AS POLITICIAN AND MEMBER OF THE
                                   HOUSE OF COMMONS.

                                                 (^tat. 44-56.)

     George Stephenson's Political Opinions and Sympathies -- Robert
    Stephenson's Toryism -- 'Little Lord John!' -- Opinions on Popular
     Education -- Robert Stephenson M.P. for Whitby in Yorkshire --
     'One of the Impenetrables '-- Speech in the House of Commons on
     the proposed Site for the Great Exhibition of 1851 -- Discussion on
     the Army Estimates, June 19, 1856 -- First Speech against the Suez
     Canal -- Second Speech against the Suez Canal -- Speech on 'The
     State of the Serpentine' -- Popularity in the House of Commons --
    Letter to Admiral Moorsom on Crimean Mismanagement -- Reason
     for declining the Invitation of the Newcastle Conservatives-- Dislike
     of Party Strife -- Testimonial to Sir William Hayter.

IN his biography of George Stephenson, Mr. Smiles has
      rightly observed that the political opinions of the
elder Stephenson ' were at best of a very undefined sort.'
To think closely and logically on matters unconnected

with his mechanical enterprises was not his habit. like

most men of imperfect education, he was guided by
emotion, rather than reason, in the consideration of
subjects that lay apart from his daily avocations. But
his sympathies were strongly conservative. To those who
conceive of the ambitious workman, fighting a long fight
against adverse circumstances, as a person necessarily
smarting under a sense of social injustice, it may be matter
of surprise that the preeminently successful workman of

1847.]  POLITICAL SYMPATHIES.  143

Great Britain, at a time when the operative classes were
very generally at variance with the classes above them,
was throughout his career well disposed towards existing
institutions. The lessons of life had taught him to look to
the aristocracy with loyal attachment. His first friends in
the Newcastle neighbourhood, who had taken him by the
hand, were amongst the leading persons of Northumbria.
Lord Eavensworth had been his patron. Mr. Brandling had
distinguished him with a support widely different from the
countenance ordinarily bestowed by a wealthy and well-
descended proprietor on an ingenious mechanic. His early
patron Mr. Losh, also, was placed high above the common
rank of manufacturers by culture, attainments, and public
services. From such men the workman had received

encouragement, when encouragement was most needed ;
and in after-life he was warmly attached to those superior
classes from which his earliest friends came.

    Eobert Stephenson heartily concurred with his father's
political sympathies ; but he was a politician in whom
intellectual conviction went hand in hand with sentiment.
He prided himself on being ' a Tory,' the term conservative

being by no means strong enough to express his abhor

rence of innovation. It would only raise a smile to

enumerate the articles of his political creed, which

resembled that of Colonel Sibthorp more closely than that
of Lord Derby. Give the government of the country for
a month into the hands of Cobden, Bright, and Eoebuck,
and (he maintained) the national preeminence of Great
Britain would be lost for ever. The bare mention of
Earl Eussell's name invariably ruffled his temper. Some
of his views were the prejudices of a previous genera
tion. He even maintained that the superficial culture

144  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VI.

 obtained by workmen at reading-clubs and lecture-rooms

injured them as artisans. A really good mechanic ought

to be bent on achieving manual perfection, throwing all
his strength of body and soul into the special task
assigned him ; and such earnestness in comparatively
uninteresting labour the captain of workmen deemed

incompatible with general mental culture. At a dinner

of the Eoyal Society's Club, he made a party of savans

open their eyes with astonishment by exclaiming, 'It is

all nonsense Lord John preaching and preaching educa
tion to the working classes. What the artisan wants is
special education for his own particular specialty. And

the more he leaves everything else alone the better.'
This speech was made in the last year of his life (February

21, 1859), at a time when he had displayed rare munifi
cence in the cause of popular education, and when he was
meditating still greater contributions to the same cause.

So strangely does an earnest and amiable man's practice

differ sometimes from his theory !

   In the summer of 1847, at the same crisis when his

father declined to stand as a candidate for the represen
tation of South Shields, Eobert Stephenson was invited by
the electors of Whitby, in Yorkshire, to become their
member of parliament. The invitation was unanimous.

All shades of political opinion were merged in a common

desire to pay a well-merited compliment to the man who

had been tested by years of arduous service. At any time

this expression of confidence would have been agreeable
to him ; but coming to him when his reputation was
under the cloud temporarily cast over it by the failure
of the Dee Bridge, it made a deep and permanent im

pression on his heart.

1847-52.]  PARLIAMENTARY LIFE.                       145

On Tuesday, July 27, 1847, Eobert went to Whitby,

and was received at the railway station by his committee

and principal supporters. On the following Friday, his

election to the seat took place without opposition.

   For Whitby Eobert Stephenson continued to sit in
parliament till his death. In 1852 he was opposed by
the Hon. Edmund Phipps, when a majority in his

favour of about two to one warned politicians not to

renew the attempt. Unquestionably his Tory supporters

had no reason to regret placing confidence in him. The

atmosphere of the House strengthened rather than

weakened his political convictions. Protectionist to the

marrow, he disdained to relinquish his belief in Protective

principles, even though persistence in them brought him in

direct collision with experience. To his dying day he

argued warmly in favour of the great commercial fallacy,

but it was remarked by his most intimate friends that it

was the one solitary subject about which in his last years he

would in discussion lose his temper ; and that exceptional

irritability appeared to them a sign that his confidence in

arguments rejected by the rest of the world had been

gradually impaired. But beyond irritability he made no

sign of penitence, and as far as avowal went, he was in

1859 as much an 'impenetrable' as he was in 1852, when

he voted in the memorable minority of 53 against the

equally memorable majority of 468.
   As a member of parliament Eobert Stephenson voted

steadily with his party, but he abstained from taking part

in the debates, unless the Commons stood in need of his

professional information or judgment.

On July 4, 1850, when Colonel Sib thorp made his

speech and motion against the proposal for the Great

VOL. II.   L

146  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VI.

Exhibition of 1851, Eobert Stephenson, who, as an un
compromising Tory, was not without points of sympathy
with the Colonel, spoke out boldly against the motion of
the member for Lincoln. The question was altogether
distinct -from party politics, and the engineer who
was himself a stanch promoter of the enterprise and
a member of the Building Committee, pleaded the
cause of the Exhibition with good effect, in a speech
which, as a maiden speech from a member of high

celebrity, made a most favourable impression on the

House.

    The next occasion of his addressing the House was on
March 25, 1852, when he spoke briefly but emphatically
in favour of the London (Watford) Spring Water Com
pany Bill. On the 17th of the following June, he again

spoke a few words. In the debate on the second reading
of the Metropolitan Burials Bill, Lord Ebrington drew

attention to the defective drainage of the metropolis,

and more especially to difficulties encountered by the
contractors for the Victoria Sewer. When his lordship
resumed his seat, Eobert Stephenson rose and said :--

   The whole of the evils complained of in the construction and
increased expense of the Victoria Sewer was in consequence of
the course pursued by the Woods and Forests. He went to the
Chief Commissioner, and endeavoured to induce him to permit
the sewer to be discharged into the Thames within the limits of
the Crown property ; but that request was peremptorily refused.
He saw no reason why Crown property should be exempted, or,
at least, why it should stand in the way of the best system of
drainage for the metropolis. But he received a peremptory
command that the sewer should not be discharged within the
limits of the Crown property. This refusal made a large dif
ference in the expenditure, and, worse than that, the foundations
having been bad in the new line, a great portion of the sewer

1856.]   SPEECH ON AKMY ESTIMATES.  147

was now in a very dangerous state. Whether the responsibility
of this rested on the late Chief Commissioner (Lord Seymour) or
not, he would not undertake to say.

   For the nelt three sessions Eobert Stephenson was
content to be a silent member of the House. On June

19, 1856, he took part in the discussion on the Army

Estimates, making a few practical remarks on the subject
of Ordnance Maps.

   He must (he said) admit that each scale had its peculiar
advantages, yet at the same time he must contend that for

practical references the one-inch map was the best of all. The
habit which unfortunately prevailed in this country of continually

changing the scale occasioned a profitless expenditure of public

money and endless confusion. The great desideratum was a map

of Great Britain on a uniform scale. In Ireland the scale

had been altered once or twice, and the result was most de

plorable. He had frequently consulted the six-inch maps in

that country, but invariably found them worse than useless for

engineering purposes. It gave him nearly as much trouble to

gather information from them as to realise it on the ground.
What the engineers employed in various parts of the United

Kingdom had for years been endeavouring to obtain from

Parliament was an assurance that the one-inch map would be

completed before any other piece of surveying was taken in
Ifhand.
         it were to be continually interrupted, as it had

heretofore been, fifty or sixty years would elapse before it was
perfected. At present there was no uniform map of England

on which engineers could depend. In France and other countries

through which he had travelled on professional business, he had
never found any difficulty in procuring lucid and accurate maps ;

but such could not be said for England, though the English had

probably spent on their surveys ten times as much as any other
people in Europe. Over and over again the engineers of Great

Britain had given the government to understand that maps to

the six, the twelve, or the twenty-five-inch scale were alike

useless to them, but the Ordnance turned a deaf ear to all their

protestations, and went on constructing maps which the engineers
did not want, and would not consult.

         J. 2

148  LIFE OF KOBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VI.

    The next parliamentary speech made by Eobert

Stephenson was his most important address to the

Commons. It was important both to the public at large

and to himself, because it confirmed the general dislike
to the proposal for a Suez Canal, and it pledged his

professional judgment to the unsoundness of the scheme.

   On July 17, 1857, Mr. Griffiths asked the House

' Whether in their deliberate opinion it be conducive to

the honour or the interests of this countiy that we should
manifest and avow the existence of a jealous hostility

on our part to the project of a ship canal through the

Isthmus of Suez ? ' In reply, after recapitulating the

political objections to the proposed canal, and upon them
condemning the scheme as ' one which no Englishman
with his eyes open would think it desirable to encourage,'

Lord Palmerston observed: --

  IAs regards the engineering difficulties, am aware there is

nothing which money and skill cannot overcome, except to stop

Ithe tides of the ocean, and to make rivers run up to their sources.

But take leave to affirm, upon pretty good authority, that this
plan cannot be accomplished, except at an expense which would

Ipreclude its being a remunerative undertaking ; and therefore
Ithink am not much out of the way in stating this to be one of

the bubble schemes which are often set on foot to induce English
capitalists to embark their money upon enterprises which, in the
end, will only leave them poorer, whomever else they may make
richer.

   Eobert Stephenson then rose, and said : --

    He would not venture to enter on the political bearings of
the subject with respect to the other powers of Europe, but
would confine himself merely to the engineering capabilities of
the scheme. He had travelled, partly on foot, over the country
to which the project applied, and had watched with great interest
the progress that had been made by various parties in examining

1857.]  FIRST SPEECH ON THE SUEZ CANAL.  149

the question. He had first investigated the subject in 1847 in
conjunction with M. Paulin Talabot, a French engineer, and M.

de Negrelli, an Austrian engineer. At the suggestion of Linant

Bey, a French engineer, who had been upwards of twenty years

resident in Egypt, and feeling how important was the establish

ment, if possible, of a communication between the Red Sea and

the Mediterranean, he had qualified himself to form an opinion

on the subject. It had been received on the authority of an

investigation of the levels taken by the French engineers during

the invasion of Egypt about 1800, that, as stated by the ancient

writers, there was a difference between the levels of the Mediter

ranean and the Red Sea of something like thirty-two feet. It

was suggested at that time that the old canal might be opened

out again, and that a current might be established between the

Mediterranean and the Eed Sea of from two to three miles an

hour, which velocity of water would not impede the com

munication between the Mediterranean and the Red Sea, as

steam tugs might be employed, and the canal might at the same

time be kept perfectly open, as the scouring power would be

adequate to maintain a clear channel. He went into this
scheme under the belief that that difference in the level did

actually exist. The examination was made by himself and the

gentlemen with whom he was associated in 1847. They had

not any idea, at that time, that if there was no difference of level

it would be practicable for a canal to be made in the first instance,

or that it could be maintained afterwards. After investigation,
however, it was found that, instead of a difference of thirty-two

feet there was no difference of level whatever, at the period of

low water, although for a period of fifty years the world had

been under the impression, from the published statements and

levellings of M. Lepere, that a difference of thirty-two feet

existed ; and whilst it was supposed to exist, it was believed by
professional men that a canal might be maintained, or that, as it

was called, a new Bosphorus might be formed between the Red

Sea and the Mediterranean. But when the difference of level

was found to be nil, the engineers with whom he was associated

abandoned the project altogether, and he betieved justly ; and

one of them (M. P.  '  Talabot) made an  adverse report, which was
published in the       Revue des deux     Mondes' of May 1855.

150  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VI.

Since then he had travelled over the Isthmus to Suez, and over
other parts of the Desert, and had investigated the feasibility of
making a free communication between the two seas, on the sup
position that they were upon the same level -- as, for instance,
from the Nile. He might, however, say, without entering into
professional detail, that he had arrived at the conclusion that it
was --he would not say absurd, because engineers whose opinions
he respected had been to the spot since, and had declared the thing

to be possible --at all events, if feasible (as the First Lord of the

Treasury, had said, money would overcome every difficulty) yet,
commercially speaking, he frankly declared it to be an im
practicable scheme. What its political import might be he
could not say, but as an engineer he would pronounce it to be
an undesirable scheme, in a commercial point of view, and that

the railway (now nearly completed) would, as far as concerned
India and postal arrangements, be more expeditious, more

certain, and more economical than even if there were this new

Bosphorus between the Red Sea and the Mediterranean.

   In the following year (June 1, 1858), Mr. Eoebuck

made and Mr. Milner Gibson seconded a motion to the
effect that, ' in the opinion of the House, the influence of

this country ought not to be used in order to induce the

Sultan to withhold his assent to the project of making a
canal across the Isthmus of Suez.' The question having

been thus again raised in the legislative assembly, Eobert

Stephenson in the course of the debate said :--

   As the member for Sheffield (Mr. Roebuck) had made special
reference to himself in the course of his observations, he begged
to occupy the attention of the House for a few minutes. The
learned member had told them that it was very desirable to
facilitate the intercourse between one portion of the globe and
another. No one doubted that, but the speech had not satisfied

them that this canal would accomplish that object. It assumed

that it would, but he (Mr. Stephenson) believed that it would
not do so. On the contrary, even supposing its construction to
be physically possible, which he, for one, denied, he was prepared
to show that the engineering difficulties would render the scheme

1858.]  SECOND SPEECH ON THE SUEZ CANAL.                                              151

impossible. In attempting to prove the feasibility of the project

the member for Sheffield had quoted many authorities, but he

had omitted to refer to the opinions of the three gentlemen, one

from Austria, another from Paris, and himself of England, who

first investigated the subject in 1847. They examined.the

physical features of the country, and deliberated over the matter

in the most cautious manner, basing their observations upon the

erroneous supposition that it would be possible to establish an

artificial Bosphorus between the Eed Sea and the Mediterranean,

such as existed naturally between the Black Sea and the Mediter

ranean. They proceeded upon the assumption that the French

levels were accurate, which showed a difference of thirty feet

between the one sea and the other, by means of which a constant

current would be maintained through the channel, supposing it

to be made sufficient to keep the harbour of Pelusium free from

the mud which was deposited from the Nile. Instead of there

being a difference of thirty feet in the height, however, it turned

out that the two seas were on a dead level, and that no current

whatever could be established. The member for Sheffield

therefore was almost guilty of a misapplication of terms when

he spoke of a 'canal,' because if this channel were cut, and the

water let into  would not be canal, but ditch. The
                it,

                   it

                                                      a
                                                                     a

                                                                                a
speaker had quoted the late Mr. Eendel as a supporter of the

scheme which was now advocated; but he (Mr. Stephenson)
could say positively that Mr. Eendel did not support the scheme

as now proposed, and he might mention as proof of this that

he did not sign the report. Mr. Eendel must have been known

to every honourable gentleman in that House, and his authority

on such matters was very great. Mr. McClean, another high

authority in matters of this description, also denied the feasi

bility of the project. As far as the English engineers were

concerned, he believed they all agreed with him to a man.

With respect to the difficulties in the way of carrying out the

scheme, he would only point to the difficulty of cutting canal
                                                                                   a

through a desert, with no fruits, no fresh water to be found

within that space. He had travelled on foot the whole

distance, at least over all the dry land, and consequently

felt justified in what he stated. He did not desire to enter

upon the political part of the question, but he could assert that

as far as the transit of passengers and mails was concerned,

152            LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                                     [On. VI.

the proposed scheme would be productive of no saving of time

in our intercourse with the East ; for, while they could be con
veyed from Alexandria to Suez by railway in eight hours, it

would require, even if the most perfect canal possible were con

structed, at least double that time for vessels going to India to

it
            it

                      it,

                     if

                              it
                                                 it

                                                                                      it
pass through      for vessels must coal either at Alexandria or
Suez. It was said that they had nothing to do with the physical

difficulties of the scheme, but he thought the House had some
Ifthing to do with them, or at least he had.
                                                                                              he had sat silent

would be said he had acquiesced in the motion, and had tacitly

admitted that the Suez Canal was a feasible project, whereas his
                  were attempted at all --which he hoped
opinion was that

would not be, or, at least, he trusted would not be with English
money -- would prove an abortive scheme, ruinous to its con

structors.

     In the July of the following session Eobert Stephenson

spoke several times on the Metropolis Local Management

Act Amendment Bill. The last time that he appears to

have addressed the House was on August 11, 1859, when

he made speech of considerable length in the debate on
It

    is

         of a
the State      the Serpentine.

     therefore seen that Eobert Stephenson was by no

means the silent member that he has been represented.

On committees and at divisions he was always at his post

when wanted and he spoke, not eloquently, but fear
               ;

lessly, impartially, and with authority, whenever he felt

he could impart valuable information to the House.

When he wished to address his constituents, he went to

Whitby for the purpose and on such occasions he met
     a
                            a

                                                         ;
                                                                                           ;

                                                            a
with cordial reception, even from political opponents.

His speeches in the House on the Suez Canal gained for
him much ill-feeling. He was accused by many of being

prejudiced against grand project                                                              few even went so

far as to insinuate that his opposition sprung from inte

rested motives. The great body of his fellow-country

1855.]  POPULARITY.                    153

men, however, felt grateful to him for braving anger and
detraction, in order that he might save the public from
what he deemed an unsound speculation.

   In the House of Commons Eobert Stephenson was

extremely popular. Men of all parties were glad to hold
friendly intercourse with him ; and he thoroughly enjoyed
their generous recognition of his claims as an eminently

successful man of action. In the smoking-room, repre
sentatives of all shades of political opinion clustered
round him for chat, for notwithstanding his extreme Tory

principles, he numbered amongst his personal friends the

most important of his political antagonists. How little
Eobert Stephenson permitted politics to influence him in

affairs of private friendship is we'll illustrated by the follow
ing hearty letter to his old friend Admiral Moorsom, in
which he playfully speaks of himself as 'a good old Tory.'

        34 Gloucester Square, Hyde Park :
                        Feb. 1, 1855.

   Dear Admiral Moohsom, -- Your letter arrived at my office a

I Iweek after had left for a short tour in France. Otherwise

should have been very glad to have had a quiet discussion with

you on the subject of the attack on Sebastopol. Although it is

Ia subject on which could not have brought much knowledge
Ito bear, yet with your assistance think we might have got up a
Ivery good pro and con. should like a good old Tory (without

reference to conscience) have supported all that has been done,

Iand you, take it for granted, would have propounded something
Inew. To be serious for a moment, am quite incapable of

giving an opinion upon the mode of attack, but on the manage

ment of the commissariat it is impossible to form but one opinion.
IIt is distressing, execrable, and contemptible. There is not one
redeeming feature in the whole thing.  have been in France

for the last month, and everywhere quiet Frenchmen stand aghast

at our management. They say little, because they have become

half Englishmen for the time, and deplore the sad casualties as

    154   LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                        [Ch. VI.

much as we do ourselves. But still their countenances indicate a

great deal more than their tongues are willing to give utterance to.
      IThe government has been turned out.
                                                            don't blame them
Ihalf so much as do the heads in command. They are the true

delinquents, or rather the true incapables. The truth       I II I I *we
                                                                        a
    have lost the art of war amongst the officers. The men have              is,
                                                                       I
    proved themselves equal to everything within the reach of human

    beings, but the officers are utterly devoid of science. There has

    not been, as far as can judge, a single indication of mental
          I
    effort. Inkerman creditable in point of science to the Russians,I is I

discreditable to our chiefs in command, although glorious to ourI it

    regimental performances.it,

      How true what one of the French generals said, The charge

    was magnificent, but was not war.'it        compliment was never
                                          is A
    before draped in so much satire. As an Englishman sincerely

    wish he had never, said because           so just, so laconic, that
      Ifwill live through all time to our disgrace.
I it                                                        had been in

    stronger health think should have been off in the Titania, and

   am not sure that shall hesitate much longer.             long to be
at Balaklava to get the stores away to the camp.             believe

    could be useful there as long as felt myself beyond the range
    of the artillery. When nigh them am persuaded should run
                               II

away and disgrace my country.
                                         Yours faithfully,

    Admiral Moorsom.                          ROBERT STEPHENSON.

       should be borne in mind that, Tory as he was, EobertIt
Stephenson supported the Earl of Aberdeen's Govern
ment and voted against his party in the division on Mr.
Eoebuck's motion in January 1855.

    Never did political ardour manifest itself with greater
gentleness in any man than did in Eobert Stephenson.
Sincere as he was fervent, he had lively sense of the

respect due to honest opinions. In 1852, there was

movement in Newcastle to elect him for that important
constituency but he declined the proffered services of
the Tyneside Conservatives, on grounds which par
          ;

                                   it

                                                       a
                                                                                            a

1855.]   DISLIKE OF PARTY STRIFE.        155

liamentary candidates are wont to esteem too lightly.

I' should,' observed Eobert Stephenson, writing to his old

friend Mr. Michael Longridge (June 3, 1852), 'have to
ask many of my friends to vote for me at the expense

Iof their political convictions, which could not stoop

to do.'

For party strife he had a strong dislike. In 1848, he

did his utmost (short of sacrifice of principle) to avoid
wounding for a second time the feelings of M. de Lesseps

and his partizans, but when he found himself compelled

either to repeat his condemnation of that which he

deemed an unwise project, or to countenance it by

silence, he did not hesitate to take the manly course.

'You see,' he wrote to Mr. Thomas Longridge Gooch,
I' have been pitching into my dear friend Lesseps again
Iabout the Suez Canal.
                        believe they feel that the thing
... Ithe matter again before the House.
is squashed for awhile, Eoebuck was determined to bring

                                         tried to
Iget him to withdraw the motion, as knew any fresh

discussion upon it could only engender bad feeling on the

part of the. French. He was perfectly resolute, and

would not listen to any course but the one he had pro
Iposed for himself.
                      had therefore no alternative but to
Irepeat what had formerly said, and to stop, as far as
I could, the English people from spending the money on

an abortive scheme.'

One of Eobert Stephenson's las* acts deserves to be

recorded in a chapter that surveys his career in the

House of Commons. When Sir William Hayter resigned
the office of ' whip,' the duties of which he had discharged

for many years with great efficiency, and with good

results to the liberal party, his political friends presented

156  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VI.

him with a testimonial. Hearing of the subscription for
the testimonial, Eobert Stephenson went to the committee
and asked leave to be a subscriber. In reply to the
request, it was represented to him that as the testimonial
was to be presented in recognition of services to the

liberal party, the committee could not accept of a con
tribution from a Conservative. The decision of the

committee was unquestionably prudent, and in accordance
with good taste ; but it was far from satisfying Eobert
Stephenson, who represented in forcible terms that he
wished to subscribe, not as a political personage, but as
one of Sir William's oldest and warmest private friends.
So urgent was he in the matter, that Lord Mulgrave

brought the question again before the committee, when
Eobert Stephenson was permitted to pay Sir William
Hayter as nattering a compliment as friend can pay

to friend.

                        157

                        CHAPTEE VII.

ROBERT STEPHENSON IN LONDON SOCIETY.

                        (.Stat. 47-55.)

The Year of the Great Exhibition -- In the Park -- An Impostor
imposed upon -- No. 34 Gloucester Square -- 'The Sunday
Lunches'-- Works of Art -- Philosophical Apparatus -- Demeanour
in Society -- 'The Chief in Great George Street -- Robert
Stephenson and 'the Profession' -- Stories of Robert Stephenson's
Generosity -- 'The Westminster Review' on Robert Stephenson --
Cab-drivers and their Payment -- Zenith of Robert Stephenson's
Prosperity -- His part in the Great Exhibition of 1851 -- Crack-
brained Projectors -- Aquatic Amusements -- The 'House without a
Knocker' -- Alexandria              Railway --Victoria (St.
Viaduct -- Mr. Samuel   and Cairo  Reminiscences -- Grand    Lawrence)
                        Bidder's                             Banquet at
Montreal to Robert Stephenson -- His Speech on the Occasion --
Connection with Mr. Alexander Ross -- The St. Lawrence Viaduct

completed, and inspected by Robert Stephenson's Deputies.

THE year 1851 was the period when Eobert Stephen
        son may be regarded as at the fullness of pros

perity. There were few names more honoured, no man

more generally popular. On questions either imme
diately or remotely connected with engineering, to state
Eobert Stephenson's opinion was in general society to

terminate discussion. In the House of Commons and
the clubs he was always welcome --his sociable dispo

sition rousing sympathy by means of a fine presence,
a countenance singularly frank, an unaffected bonhomie,

and that pleasant richness of voice that impresses the

158  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                                                         [Ch. VII.

 hearer with an idea of intellectual and moral excellence.

 He was to be seen frequently in the parks, where as he
 took his riding exercise he was pointed out to visitors
 from the country as one of the most notable of existing
 ' lions.'

    Following the fashion of the day, Eobert Stephenson,
 between 1851 and his death, used at times to wear beard

 and moustaches ; at other times his lips and chin were

 shaved.

    Of his martial appearance, at the times when his beard
 and moustache were at their fullest, a good story is told.
 Ten or twelve years since, in one of the streets of Soho,
 there was a pretender who undertook to tell persons'
 characters by an infallible method. He employed a
mechanical contrivance composed of a crystal globe and a
framework, placed in the centre of the chief table in his

reception-room ; the crystal globe being suspended from
the frame in such a manner that it oscillated like the
pendulum of a clock. Of course any disturbance to the
frame or the table affected the vibrations of the glass
ball. The ' wise man's ' visitors were separately made to
take up a position against the table, leaning or lounging
upon and by observations of the movement of the globe
and of the images upon while the table was subjected

to such pressure, the seer professed to be able to tell the
mental and moral characteristics of those who consulted

him. The imposture made sensation. The knave was
honoured with visits from great ladies and the gossip
of the ladies induced men of scientific reputation and

high political influence to call on the quack. Amongst
many others, Eobert Stephenson went to look at the

charlatan. In - an ante-room leading into the chamber
     it,
                                     it,
                                             a

                                                                                                     ;

   1848.]     GLOUCESTER SQUARE.                         159

   devoted to the wizard and his globe, he was requested to
   write his name and address in a book. Instead of com

   plying with the request, he entered in the register the
   name and address of a friend, of whom there was small

   chance that the character-reader would have any know

   ledge ; that done, he passed on to the inner room, reclined
   against the table, and exchanged a few sentences with his
   entertainer. He took his leave, with the understanding
   that his ' character,' duly written out, would be sent in

   the course of the next day to his residence. According
   to promise, the ' character ' arrived at the given address :
   ' Frankness and decision are your leading characteristics.

   Of timidity and caution you are altogether ignorant.

   Bold, fearless, dashing, reckless, you would make an ad

   mirable cavalry officer, but it is clear that you are

   utterly devoid of mechanical talent.' Such was the pur
   port of ' the character.' Eobert Stephenson's imposing

   height and moustache had completely imposed on the

   impostor.

   At 34 Gloucester Square,Eobert Stephenson entertained

   his friends with liberal hospitality. Few private enter

*  tainments in London were more   pleasant than  his '  Sunday
   lunches,' at which many chiefs  of literature  and    science

   were in the habit of meeting. Baden Powell, Sir E.

   Murchison, Sharpe (the Egyptian scholar), M. Bonomi,
   Captain Pim, Sir James and Lady Prior, Mr. Lough (the
   sculptor), Dr. Mayo, Dr. John Percy, Brunel, and other

   not less eminent persons came to Gloucester Square for

   these receptions.
      Eobert Stephenson left Cambridge Square for Glou

   cester Square somewhere about the November of 1847.
   The purchase of the lease of his last residence (together

160        LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VII.

with sums expended on alterations and repairs) involved
an outlay of nearly £10,000.

   Amongst the more important works of art contained

in the house at the time of his death, were --

1. A full length, life-size portrait of George Stephenson,

painted by Lucas.                   This picture was ex

   2. 'The Evening Gun,' by Danby.

hibited at the Manchester Exhibition. After Robert Stephen
son's death, Mr. George Robert Stephenson presented it to Mr.

Bidder.
   3. ' The Twins,' by Landseer. On this picture Robert Ste

phenson set great value. An opulent gentleman, breakfasting
with him one morning, offered him £5,000 for it. ' But,' said

the owner, repeating the circumstance of the offer to his

Ifriends, ' he stood a worse chance of getting it by setting so

high a value on it, as knew him to be an excellent judge.'
   4. ' Killingworth Colliery,' by Lucas.
   5. ' The Stepping Stones,' by Lucas. This picture, painted

at Robert Stephenson's order, represents a girl carrying a child

over a stream in Wales. The Britannia Bridge is seen in the

distance.

     6. Portraits of engineers and others, grouped in consultation

with Robert Stephenson about the Britannia Bridge, by

Lucas.

     7. Railway arch at Newcastle-on-Tyne, by Richardson.

   In sculpture Eobert. Stephenson manifested his taste by

purchasing Power's ' Fisher Boy,' the companion of the
' Greek Slave,' in the Exhibition of 1851.

    The drawing-rooms of 34 Gloucester Square were so
liberally stocked with works of curious contrivance, and
philosophical toys, that they had almost the appearance of
a museum. Singularly constructed clocks, electric instru
ments, and improved microscopes, 'by Smith and Beck,
and Pillischer were arranged on all sides.
, Eobert Stephenson's cabinet of microscopic specimens

1851.] LIBERALITY TOWARDS PROFESSIONAL BRETHREN. 161

was most elaborate and extensive ; and any contribution

to it was an attention he always cordially acknowledged.

He had long desired to have some specimens of North

American coal, and also of coal brought by him from

South America, prepared for the microscope ; but no

one had been able to reduce the mineral, substances to

the necessary degree of thinness. After months of in

effectual labour, however, Mr. Stockman had the good

. fortune to get some specimens sufficiently thin for the

purpose. On receiving them Eobert Stephenson was

greatly delighted, and gave expression to his satisfaction

by presenting Mr. Stockman with a costly microscope.

   In society Stephenson was a charming companion. A

ready talker, he was also a courteous listener. Never

presuming on his reputation and position, he encouraged

perfect freedom of discussion, and even on questions of

engineering, he would hear patiently, and answer with

respect, the views of his opponents. He was never guilty
of dogmatism towards the young, or superciliousness to

the timid. It would be difficult to imagine a man
more considerate of the feelings of others. No descrip
tion of his demeanour in the society of men would be

complete which did not contain the word ' jolly.' He was

Ithe embodiment of joviality, without' the faintest touch of

boisterous awkwardness. ' never in all my life knew a

more clubable man than Eobert Stephenson : it is im

possible for a more clubable man than Eobert Stephenson

to exist,' is the emphatic testimony of Dr. John Percy.

But merely one-half of the man's social capabilities were
known to those who saw him only in the society of men.

His courteous bearing to ladies possessed the style of

ancient chivalry.

VOL. II.           M

162               LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.     [Ch. VII.

     In his own profession, Eobert Stephenson's popularity

was even greater than his popularity in general society,

or with the public. Perhaps no man of such eminence

has ever had less of jealousy and detraction embittering

success. In Great George Street he exercised a sort of

feudal sway over a numerous body of engineers, who had

served either under him or his father. By them he was

always designated the ' chief,' and whenever any of them
undertook a new work, ' the chief ' was the first person

to whom all the particulars of the enterprise were confided.

No one was afraid of him. His amiable and admirable

power of making men of the most uncongenial tempers
' pull together ' gained him the affection of men whose
dispositions were far from gentle or conciliatory. ' Eobert

Stephenson made me ! ' one gentleman says, gratefully re

Icalling his ' chief's ' influence ; ' never was able to get on

with other men, till Eobert Stephenson took me in hand.'

Men like Brunel, with whom he was continually at issue

on public questions, never for a moment regarded him as

'  an  enemy   '  whilst  most  of  them  found  him a generous
              ;

and unselfish friend.

     His liberality to professional subordinates in respect of

money, was equal to his generosity towards them in

respect of all that concerned their reputation. Every

engineer working for him was secure of twice the pay

ment he could get from any other employer, and was

moreover certain that . the merit of his labour would

not be appropriated by the general-in-command. Two

anecdotes, taken from many others, will display this side
of Eobert Stephenson's character. At a time when the

Stanhope and Tyne embarrassment made money a great

object to him, he was engaged as engineer to a branch

1851.]  RICH, AND MAKING OTHERS RICH.             163

line in one of the midland counties, with a fee of £6,000,

the directors permitting him to find an engineer to

execute the works,' so long as he visited the line from

time to time, supervising the operations, advising on all

important points, and personally bearing all the responsi

bility. Under these circumstances, the engineer-in-chief
sent down Mr. A. to execute the work, on the under

standing that they should divide the fee, taking £3,000

each. Before a third of the line had been put down,

Mr. A. received an offer of more lucrative employment,
and asked Eobert Stephenson if he might resign his post,

or find a locum tenens. On receiving permission to
adopt the latter course, Mr. A. made the work over to a

friend (Mr. B.), on agreement that they should divide the
moiety of the original fee, taking £1,500 each. On this

arrangement the line was completed ; when, the time for
settlement having arrived, Eobert Stephenson sent Mr. A.
a cheque for £4,000 instead of £3,000. Mr. A. called on

Eobert Stephenson to say that the sum was £1,000 in
'Iexcess of the amount due; and the latter said,
                                                  am

aware that by our agreement you can demand only

I£3,000; but as half your fee goes to Mr. B., whose

services we have benefited by, think we three engineers

had better divide the £6,000 equally, share and share

alike: men should never. try to eat each other up.' This

story was communicated by the gentleman designated as

Mr. A., but he requested that the name of himself and his

locum tenens should not be published.

Another case is given by an engineer, who desires

(out of regard to the feelings of other persons) that no
names should be mentioned in its recital. On one of his

more important railways, Eobert Stephenson, as engineer- r

        M2

164  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VII.

in-chief, and the members of the engineer's staff, were

engaged by the directors on fixed salaries, commencing at
the time of their engagements, and terminating on the
completion of the liue. During construction, monetary
derangements brought the works to a stand-still for many
months, and threatened ruin to the company. The con
sequence was that for the best part of a year the subor

dinate engineers had nothing to attend to on the line,
and were able to take employment elsewhere. When

the question was raised whether the salaries should be

paid for the period extending over a complete cessation
of work, Eobert Stephenson, who felt that it would be
hard for an impoverished company to pay heavy salaries
to an unemployed staff, and that it would be no less
for the subordinate engineers (none of whom were rich
men) to relinquish their claims, devoted his own salary to

satisfying the demands of his assistants. In point of fact,

he stepped in between the company and the assistant
engineers, and removed the grounds of dispute by pay
ing his staff out of his own pocket.

    Hundreds of stories like these might be told. ' If,*
says one of the first iron-masters of the kingdom, ' Eobert
Stephenson grew rich himself, he made others richer also.

No one ever had dealings with him, without being the
richer for them.' But while he distributed freely with
one hand, he was far from clutching eagerly, and holding
fast with the other. Money always seemed to him, busi

ness man though he was, a comparatively unimportant

consideration. Of course, in some years, his professional

earnings were very great. It would be difficult to state

them within a few hundreds, or even thousands, for the

engagements of an engineer in large practice are very

1851.]     A PENNY A MINUTE.                                  165

complicated, his work being extending over years, and
frequently the day of payment being postponed till long

after the completion of the work. Possibly Eobert

Stephenson earned, during the years of most active rail

way speculation, £30,000 a year ; but whether he earned

more or less than this sum, there is no doubt that he

could have greatly increased   ; it,  his palm had itched for

fees. Latterly he declined to give his evidence before comif

mittees, or to advise professionally, unless he received

more than ordinary payment but this did not arise from

greed of gain, so much as from indifference to it. He

asked for more in order that he might have less. He

wished to get rid of his employers.
   In estimating Eobert Stephenson's conduct to his

professional brethren,  it  should be remembered that he

always took all the responsibility of works on his own

shoulders. Whatever mistakes might be made, he always

took all the blame of errors to himself, and shielded his

assistants from criticism.

He was not without his little whimsicalities but they
                                         ;

were more remarkable for amiability than eccentricity.

The greatest and best paid trafficker of his day in the

commodity of locomotion, he could never do otherwise

than regard those humble dealers in the same article --
namely, cab-proprietors and cab-drivers -- as an ill-used

class. He always insisted on paying cab fares by scale
                                      a
                                              a

                                                      a
                                                           a
of his own. The Hansom was his favourite vehicle, and

the driver was always required to drive at brisk pace,

the remuneration being at the rate of penny minute,

from the moment of hiring no fare of course being com
                            ;

puted under shilling. Friends frequently exclaimed
        a

against the extravagance of this penny minute rule,
                                      a

166  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.         [Ch. VII.

pointing out to him that he did much harm by a liberality
that made the drivers discontented with arrangements

which, while they defended the public from extortion, any
how allowed hackney coachmen to get a living. ' The

law, which you do your utmost to make people discon
tented with, is one that especially considers the poor
traveller,' observed a critic, bringing his arguments to a
conclusion. 'Exactly,' answered Eobert Stephenson,
warmly ; ' and that's just the reason why rich travellers
should not take advantage of it.'

   Eobert Stephenson's success was at its fullest in the
years 1850 and 1851. His fame and popularity never
reached a higher point. He had ample leisure for the

enjoyment of general society ; and his health, though far
removed from all that a man who had only entered on
middle life might reasonably desire, did not shut him out

from enjoyment. In those years he acted as member of

the Executive Committee and Building Committee for the
Exhibition Building of 1851, and also as one of the Eoyal
Commissioners* for carrying out that noble undertaking.
The testimony of a fellow-committeeman on the Building

    * Reference to the Journals of the  May 14, 1858. In addition to these

Royal Commission, ascertained that      attendances, Robert Stephenson was
                                        a constant attendant at the Contract
Robert Stephenson attended meet
ings of the Executive Committee on      Committee.
January 8, 11, 25, 1850; meetings of       As early as June 1844, Robert
the Building Committee June 21, 22,
1850 ; Meetings of the Royal Com        Stephenson was a promoter of the

mission, March 7, April 25, May 2,      Industrial Exhibition. When it
9, 16, June 21, July, 1, 11, 15, 16,
                                        was attempted in that year to act on
in the year 1850; March 5, 29,          the late Prince Consort's suggestion
                                        to the Society for Encouragement of
April, 22, 28, May, 10, 12, July 5,     Arts, Robert Stephenson became a
                                        member of the provisional com
August 19, October 13, in the year
1851; March 1, April 2, October 29,     mittee, and offered a loan of £1,000
                                        to carry out the undertaking.
in the year 1852 ; January 25, 1853;

June 30, 1855; June 20, 1857;

1850.]  THE EXHIBITION OF INDUSTRY.  167

Committee, as to Stephenson's services to the Great Ex

hibition, deserves place. Writing (Oct. 26, 1859), Mr.
Donaldson says of Eobert Stephenson and the younger

Brunel :

   Being a member of the Building Committee for the Exhibition
Building of 1851, with them, and the then Mr. W. Cubitt, C.E.,

Sir Charles Barry, and Professor Cockerell, it was impossible for

me not to be struck with the ready imagination, the brilliant

ideas, and the quick invention of Brunel, and the thorough

master of detail, the sagacity of perception, and rapidity of

calculation with which Bobert Stephenson examined each

project presented to the Committee, calculated the effective

strength of the parts, and threw out suggestions for some grand

and novel features that ought to distinguish an erection so novel

in its destination, and which admitted so large a margin for

novelty and invention         When Eobert Stephenson was

about to raise the last tube of the Menai Bridge, he attended

one of the meetings of the Exhibition Building Committee, and

invited the members to go down to witness that interesting
operation of a gigantic work. Professor Cockerell was then ill,

and other members were otherwise engaged ; but Sir C. Barry

and myself accepted the invitation, and went down. After the

last tube had been floated to between the piers, and had been

raised and deposited in the place which, we may hope, it is

destined to occupy for centuries to come, there was, as usual, a

friendly dinner party, and those present congratulated Robert

Stephenson on the complete success of his magnificent con

ception, and expressed the cordiality with which they partici

pated in the triumph of so remarkable a work of science, which

had met almost insuperable difficulties, and had created a new

application of a system of constructive combination never hitherto

imagined. In reply, he thanked his friends for their sympathy

and expressions of friendly regard ; but he added, that even the

triumph of that day did not recompense him for the days and

nights of anxious toil and thought, the cares and anxieties

which had attended the work.

Eobert Stephenson had no country establishment ;

168  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VTL

though there were few men who had more need of a
place of retreat from the bustle of London life. Through
out ' the season ' he was, during his last years, literally
persecuted by importunate projectors. When casual in
disposition kept the engineer from Great George Street,
and confined him to his house, swarms of talkative,

and for the most part profitless clients intruded on the
privacy of the man whose too pliant temper laid him
open to their annoyance. An intimate friend and col
league of Eobert Stephenson says that, calling in at
Gloucester Square to consult the master of the house
on urgent business, he found every reception-room oc
cupied by a crowd of persons. Being much engaged,
and wishing to employ his time with correspondence till
he could have an interview with Eobert Stephenson, the
narrator asked the servant to show him into a room

where he could be by himself, and write his letters in

Ifquiet. ' you want that, sir,' the man answered, ' you

must go upstairs into one of the bedrooms, for every
sitting-room is occupied with gentlemen who insist on
seeing Mr. Stephenson, although they know he is unwell.'
And the caller, acting on the advice, went upstairs and
sate in a bed-room, till he could be admitted into the

library.
    Amongst these importunate intruders were amateur

engineers with proposals for improved railway breaks.
They formed a distinct class of inventive monomaniacs,
and were so numerous, that Eobert Stephenson adopted
an excellent method to protect himself from them. Of
every stranger who appeared in the ante-room at Great
George Street, Mr. Sanderson (Eobert Stephenson's
brother-in-law and business manager) was directed to

1850.]          THE YACHT TITANIA.                        169

enquire the object of his visit. Whenever the reply was

I I' Sir, have a proposal for a new break, about which

should like to ask Mr. Stephenson's opinion,' the following

conversation would ensue : --

Mr. Sanderson. ' Indeed, sir. And what can you do with

'Ithe break?'   can stop a train instantly-- instantaneously,
   Inventor.

sir.'

   Mr.   Sa'nGdoeordsonHea(wveitnhs,  an expression   of  horror in his counte
                                                     did
nance).                                sir ! if you       that, you'd kill all the

passengers.'                                              ' But, sir, --

I Inventor (suddenly modifying his statement).
  can stop a train gradually.'
Mr. Sanderson (bringing the discussion to an end). ' So can

anybody else.'

    After this the inventor seldom cared to prolong the
interview.

    What the country is to most London men of business,
the sea was to Eobert Stephenson. To any shooting-box
within the four seas he would have been followed by

clients and letters ; but once afloat he was safe from the

intrusion of callers and raps of postmen.
   In 1850, his first yacht, the Titania, 100 tons, (or ' the

old Titania,' as she was subsequently named) was launched.

A graceful vessel and a fair sailer, the old Titania had

won a secure place in her owner's affections, when she
was destroyed by fire at Cowes. When Eobert Stephen
son did not require her services, she was always at the
disposal of Mr. George Eobert Stephenson, who in the
second year of her existence sent a line to the captain,

ordering fires to be lighted on board, and the yacht
prepared for the reception of himself and family. The
first part of the order was carried out with such an

170      LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VII.

excess of zeal, that an overheated flue led to the de

struction of the vessel. When Mr. George Eobert Ste
phenson arrived at Cowes, he found the Titania thoroughly

gutted.
   Making the best of his way back to London, Mr. George

Eobert Stephenson hastened to Gloucester Square with

intelligence of the accident. On arriving there, he found

his cousin entertaining a party of friends, who had just

sate down to dinner. The soup and fish were still on the

table. 'What brings you here? What's the news?'

asked Eobert, with his customary cordiality. ' Bad news,
IEobert
      '  was  the  answer,  '  ordered the Titania to be got

     !

ready for me, to take me and my family a few days'

cruise ; and -- she's burnt to the water.' Certainly the

announcement was far from pleasant ; but Eobert thought

less of his own loss than his cousin's chagrin. 'Well,

well, man --don't be annoyed. You couldn't help it.

Sit down and have your dinner. We'll talk about it over

a glass of wine.' After receiving an account of all the

particulars of the mishap, Eobert Stephenson put his hand
kindly on his cousin's shoulder, and said, ' Never mind,

old boy, we'll have a finer vessel than the old Titania,

before we are many months older.'
   Mr. Scott Eussell therefore received instructions to

build another yacht ; and on June 21st, 1853, the new

Titania (184 tons) was launched.
   Soon after the destruction of the old Titania, Eobert

Stephenson wrote to Admiral Moorsom : --

                                                                            24 Great George Street :
                                                                                   May 25, 1852.

  IMy dear Admiral Moorsom, -- am really much obliged to
Iyou for your mention of the work on Naval Architecture, for

1857.]   ON BOARD THE TITANIA.                          171

Iam not quite daunted by the loss of my very fine vessel, as am

again cogitating with Scott Eussell over the lines of another
/ I Iyacht.
         find can get no peace on land.  am therefore
I·preparing another sea lodging-house.   find it no easy

Imatter to get rid of a multitude of questions which follow on a

tolerably long professional life. Indeed find that nothing

gives me actual freedom from attack, but getting out of the way

Iof the postman. The sea, therefore, is my only alternative.
' Ships have no knockers, happily.  shall read carefully the

work to which you have drawn my attention before deciding

I Ifinally on the details of my new vessel, and in doing this- 1

have no doubt that shall be able to say that am indebted

to you.

                                    Faithfully yours,

Admiral Moorsom.                    Eobert Stephenson.

   Not quite three months later Eobert Stephenson wrote

to the same correspondent : --

                                                       24 Great George Street, Westminster :

                              I IAugust 6, 1852.

   My dear Admiral Moorsom,-- fear that shall not have an
opportunity for some time to come to visit Sheerness or Chatham,

Ias am about to leave for Norway in a few days.
  I am quite inclined to think with you that a rectangular box

with a proper bow and stern is the most likely form in plan for
a huge line of battle ship ; but the question had nearly

Iresolved itself into one of section, and even in this respect am

persuaded the rectangle is not far wide of the mark. The
approach to the wedge of Sir W. Simons is clearly more than
enough for stability, and it cannot fail to make a ship with
armaments on board roll quickly and consequently strain every
thing to pieces. The rectangular tub will carry the day.

                                                    Yours faithfully,
                                                       Eobert Stephenson.

   The Titania (184 tons burthen, drawing 13 feet of
water, 90 feet in length, and 21 feet in breadth of beam),

was a yacht for a sailor to criticise with approval.

172  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VII.

 Somewhat deficient in speed, it had every other good            ·
 quality. The saloon and sleeping cabins were large,
 the former being 16 feet by 15 feet, and 8 feet high.

    Eobert Stephenson's yacht was generally allowed to

be the best manned in the squadron. In 1856, when

Professor Piazzi Smyth, the Astronomer Eoyal for Scot
land, was sent with very limited means to Teneriffe, to

make scientific observations, Eobert Stephenson placed
the Titania and her crew at the professor's disposal.

   It was on board the Titania that ' the best ' of Eobert

 Stephenson was seen to ' best advantage.' So elated was

he with the sea-air, that the first twenty-four hours afloat

were usually passed in school-boy hilarity. Every Sunday
that he spent in his yacht he assembled the whole crew,

and read them the service appointed for the day by the
Church of England.

    His delight was 'to show the sea' to a novice who

could endure the motion of the waves, but was inex

perienced in the delights of a nautical trip. To take such

an one out for three or four days, and bring him home
after ' a good blow,' was a genuine pleasure to him.

Here is a glimpse of the man, enjoying himself on deck.

The late Mr. KelL of Gateshead, writes : --

   In October 1857, Mr. Robert Stephenson was in his (second)

yacht, Titania, with a party of friends who had accompanied
him through the Caledonian Canal and along the western coast of
Scotland to Holyhead. On the morning of the 16th, they
sailed from Holyhead for Kingstown in a stiff breeze from the
south-west. There had been a dense fog, and many land
birds had been blown out to sea. On the passage, the yacht
was boarded by several of them. When Mr. Stephenson came
upon deck, the crew had captured some linnets, and having
taken them into their fore-cabin, were in pursuit of others.
Those which had been captured, and taken below, were sitting

1850.]  JOURNEY TO EGYPT.  173

in nooks, and would not feed. Mr. Stephenson said they would
all die, and ordered them to be set at liberty and the pursuit
discontinued. Several linnets and a lark afterwards came on
board the boat, hanging at the stern of the yacht, and then
hopped upon deck. Mr. Stephenson became much interested
in getting the birds to feed, offering them crumbs, which
they would not. eat. They attempted to drink the water
washed on deck, but its saltness was painful to them. Mr.
Stephenson then tried the experiment of steeping slices of bread
in fresh water, and placing them before his little guests. To
his great delight, the plan succeeded. Three of the linnets
became very tame, and had to be driven from their seats on the
ropes. When the working of the yacht required them to change
their position, Mr. Stephenson always took care that they were
not injured. The other linnets and the lark could not get over
their terror at the disturbance in shifting the sails, and after
returning to the ship several times, disappeared -- no doubt to
perish. As soon as the yacht entered Kingstown Harbour, the
three linnets flew off, clung to the tangle on the dock-wall for
some minutes, and then with apparently renewed vigour flew
on shore, Mr. Stephenson exclaiming, ' There, you little un
grateful birds, we have saved your lives and made Irishmen
of you.'

   In the autumn of 1850, Eobert Stephenson went on a
trip of pleasure to Egypt, -- a trip that, like his excursion

to Norway, led to another important engagement. Whilst

he was at Alexandria, en route for England, the then

Viceroy of Egypt, Abbas Pasha, summoned him to Cairo,

for a conference on a scheme for introducing railway

communication into Egypt. The result of the intercourse

between the Pasha and the engineer, was a commission

from His Highness the late Said Pasha to connect Cairo

and Suez by a line of railway. In consequence of con

sular representations the first scheme was abandoned,

and the line between Alexandria and Cairo was decided

on, chiefly from the influence of Mr. Hugh Thurburn.

174  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VII.

In 1851, Nubar Bey was sent to London to make the

requisite contracts, and on the return of the envoy the
works were forthwith commenced and carried on with

great spirit, so that the main line was available for public
traffic in the opening months of 1856. The break of

way, caused by the intersection of the main line by the
Nile, between Kafir Zeyat and Kafir Lais, which is now
spanned by the magnificent Kafir Zeyat Tubular Bridge,
was in the first instance met by the engineer with an
enormous steam ferry, consisting of a huge pontoon,
which supported a high staging furnished with a railway
deck. Constructed so that it could be raised more or

less in accordance with the varying depth of the waters
of the river, this ponderous vessel received the trains,

with all their burden, and conveyed them to the opposite

bank.

   At the close of 1856, Eobert Stephenson, accompanied
by Mr. Frederick Eichard Lee, E.A., and Mr. Sopwith,
visited the railway, and found the ferry at work. In an

account of the trip, printed for private circulation, Mr.
Sopwith gives the following account of the floating pon

toon.

    At Kafir Zeyat the river Nile bends in a horse-shoe form

 midway or very nearly so, as has been already stated, between
 Alexandria and Cairo. This horse-shoe bend is about three
miles in length, the intervening land being little more than a

mile in width. In the middle of this, curve, at a point where the

river is 1,200 feet in width, is a ferry which conveys the railway
 carriages and wagons, as well as the passengers, from one side to
 the other.

    Ferry boats, guided by chains, are used in some places in
 England, and were first adopted on a large scale by the late Mr.

J. M. Eendel at Plymouth ; but in the present case peculiar

 difficulties were presented, which required the especial care of

1856.]  FERRY AT KAFFR ZEYAT.                       175

Mr. Stephenson, under whose direction the railway and all its

accompaniments were constructed. Impediments existed which

prevented his adoption of a bridge, and a ferry being the only

alternative, a design was made and the works were executed at

INewcastle. To-day was the first opportunity Mr. Stephenson

enjoyed of seeing the work in operation : and must here

attempt, however imperfectly, to convey some idea of the

Iexcusable gratification which he experienced, and the extreme

interest and delight with which viewed the great engineering

work.

   The dimensions of the ferry-boat and its superincumbent

framework are--eighty feet in length, the same in height, and
sixty feet in width. It is worked by two steam-engines placed

horizontally, one on either side, and together of about thirty-

horse power, which suffices to take this gigantic frame of

wrought iron, with a moderate railway train and passengers,
across the Nile in six minutes. Its central portion is a huge
parallelogram, supported by iron buttresses from the projecting

sides of the boat. The striking peculiarity of its construction

arises from the necessity which exists to adapt the floor and

rails which receive the carriages to the exact level of the railway

at each side, under the great variation of level to which the

waters of the Nile are subject, and which at times has been

known to be as much as twenty-seven feet. By an ingenious,

yet simple application of screws, this platform is raised or

depressed, as the water of the Nile may require ; and this,

together with an exact adjustment of the rails, and the utmost

facility of access to and egress from the framework, are admirably

accomplished. In England, or indeed in Europe generally, or

in North America, no limits would be placed on the inventive

genius of an engineer, by any consideration as to the ability of

workmen for conducting requisite operations; but in Egypt,

where a prejudice exists in favour of employing native, and

consequently unskilled labour, it was necessary to combine, if

possible, superabundant power with the utmost simplicity of

management : and this has been attained so completely that the

Arabs, receiving less than fourpence daily wages (out of which
they have to purchase bread, their only provision), are quite equal

to the nicest adjustments of this ponderous affair  To

176  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.    [Ch. VTL

contrive and execute such a work at Newcastle, and send it
some three thousand miles, was a work which Mr. Stephenson's
knowledge of Egyptian climate and requirements, and his
proficiency as a practical mechanic, enabled him to undertake
with reasonable and well-founded hopes of success. The ex
perience of to-day, however, proved that a mind more saDguine
than his would have been requisite to rely with certainty on the
entire fulfilment of the accuracy which was aimed at. Seldom
does it come within the good fortune of the ablest contrivers,
even at home and amidst all the means and appliances of able

cooperation, to effect all that they purpose to accomplish : and

some slight misgivings -- some vague doubts --might readily

accompany the conception of so large a work for so distant a

land. Six months or more have elapsed since its completion,

and the first view of the perfect success and easy management

Iof this noble ferry seemed to exceed the best anticipations of its

designer, and could not but participate in some degree in the
laudable pride and pleasure of such a result. A brilliant sun

Iand unclouded skies imparted great beauty to the scene, and

trust that the photographic views to be taken by Mr. Lee will
supply in a great measure, the inevitable deficiencies of my

verbal description.

     But well as the ferry worked, it was found inadequate

to deal with the rapidly increasing traffic of the new rail

way ; and subsequently a fixed bridge was substituted for

it. This bridge, which is known as the Kaffr Zeyat

Bridge, was designed by Mr. George Eobert Stephenson,

after the model of the other Egyptian iron bridges, and

was completed in 1860. Of the tubular structures over

the Nile at Benha, and over the large canal at Birket-el-

Saba, the engineer's terse description is the best account

for the general reader. In his article on ' Iron Bridges'

in the Encyclopaedia  Britannica,  Eobert Stephenson

says :--

                                   is,
The principal feature of the Egyptian Railway Bridges that

1800.]            BRIDGE AT KAFFR ZEYAT.              177

the road is carried upon the top of the tubes, and not in their

interior.

   There are two tubular viaducts upon the Egyptian Eailway.
The larger one crosses the Damietta branch of the Nile at Benha,

and the smaller one crosses the K.arrineen Canal at Birket-el-

Saba (Lake of the Lion). These viaducts unite two old roads,
formerly connected by a ferry, and each is contiguous to a vice

regal palace.

   In the larger viaduct there are ten spans or openings, the two

centre ones comprising one of the largest swing-bridges that has

been attempted.

   The total length of the swing-beam is 157 feet ; it is balanced
in the middle of its length on a large central pier. When open

to the navigation a clear water-way is left on either side of the

central pier of 60 feet. Each half of the beam sustains its own

weight as a cantalever, 66 feet long.

   The eight remaining spans are 80 feet in the clear, arranged
four on each side of the centre portion, and the total length of

the viaduct between the abutments is 865 feet.

   The piers consist of wrought-iron cylinders, 7 feet in dia
meter below the level of the Nile, and 5 feet in diameter above

that level. They were sunk by a pneumatic process to a depth

of 33 feet below the bed of the river, through soil of a peculiarly

shifting character, and are filled in with concrete.

There are six of these cylinders in the central pier which

supports the swing-bridge ; and the adjacent piers on either side
of the centre have each four cylinders; each of the remaining

piers has two cylinders only. The tops of the cylinders are

covered by cast-iron circular plates, which rest entirely upon the

concrete, special care being taken to prevent any contact with

the cylinders. On these circular plates rest the upper cast-iron
plates which connect the piers, and form a seating for the

bearing-plates of the beams.

The beams or tubes are 6 feet 6 inches deep, and 6 feet 6

inches wide at the bottom, tapering to 6 feet wide at the top,

and they rest at their ends on rollers working between planed

surfaces to admit of the motion catised by expansion and

contraction.

The tubes carry a single line of way on their tops, the rails

        VOL. II.              N

178  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch.VII.

being laid on longitudinal sleepers ; and there is also a roadway
4 feet wide on either side, supported by wrought-iron brackets

bolted to the sides of the tube.
   These roadways are of corrugated iron, resting on the brackets,

and stiffened by strips of bar-iron placed transversely on the top.
    The six cylinders for the central pier are also provided with

cast-iron circular plates, as before described, and surmounted by
a framework of cast iron, uniting the tops of the cylinders, and

serving as the lower tramway for the rolling machinery.
    The revolving machinery consists of a turn-table containing

 eighteen accurately turned conical rollers, their angle being
 determined to the greatest nicety, and corresponding with the
 angular surfaces of the tram-plates between which they revolve.

    The diameter of this turn-table is 19 feet from centre to

 centre of the rollers.

    The whole of the rollers, together with the wrought-iron

 circular frame to which they are attached, form an independent
 system, usually termed the ' live-ring,' held in its position by
 the central pivot. The frame of the ' live-ring ' is connected

 with the rollers by radial spindles, with gun-metal gudgeons at
 the periphery and centre. And to prevent any difference in

 angular speed between the rollers and centre portion, a very
 excellent arrangement is adopted, which consists in a diagonal

  strap passing over the centre wheel, and extending to the outer
 periphery. This strap is keyed up to any adjustment, in which
 it firmly keeps the radial spindles.

     The swing-tube is firmly attached to the upper tram-plate by
  a system of cast-iron bracket work, and strong bolts and nuts ;

  forming, in fact, as is most essential at this point, an exceedingly
  rigid attachment. The centre pivot is of forged iron, 9 inches

  diameter, and turned accurately to fit its bearings. To insure
  a firm fixing for the pivot, it is made to pass through the entire
  depth of the lower tram-plate into a socket provided for the
  purpose, in which position it is firmly keyed. The bridge is
  turned with facility by a capstan worked by two men, with

  gearing communicating with the large rack surrounding the

   lower tram-plate.
      To prevent accident to the swing-bridge when open,

  ' fenders ' are placed up and down stream, similar in construe

1853.]  PROPOSAL FOR VICTORIA BRIDGE.                                 179

tion to the piers of the bridge. At the bearing ends of the
swing-bridge arrangements are made for locking it in its position.

These consist of fixed inclined planes attached to the under-

surface of the bearing ends of the tube, and corresponding

wedges which slide on the piers, which are made to recede and
advance, by means of a screw turned by gear- work.

   In the Birket-el-Saba Viaduct, the swing portion forms spans

on each side of 43 feet, and the fixed portion consists of two

spans of 70 feet each. In other respects the viaducts are

precisely similar.
   Both were commenced in May 1853, and completed for traffic

in October 1855.*

   In the year 1852, Mr. Alexander Eoss, who had care

fully examined the natural features of the St. Lawrence

    * The engineer's staff in Egypt was                             ing to Mr. Swinbourne's division
an able one. Divided at about mid
way by the Nile, at Kaffr Zeyat,                                    were --Mr. Fowler and Mr. Vaughan
the Alexandria and Cairo Railway
had two separate corps of engineers, --                             stationed at Benha; Mr. Rushton and
one for the district north, the other                               Mr. Hardcastle employed on the line
                                                                    between Cairo and the Nile. Be
for the district south of the Nile.
                                                                    sides these engineers, were the sur
Acting as resident engineer, and su                                 veyors, Mr. Graham and Mr. Preston
pervisor of both divisions, was the                                 (with Mr. Cheffins, Jun., as assistant),
late Mr. M. A. Borthwick. Under                                     and the architect of the stations, Mr.
                                                                    Edward Baines.
Mr. Borthwick were Mr. Henry J.
                                                                        The task of designing the Benha
Rouse (having the ordinary control of                               and Birket-el-Saba bridges, and of
the northern half of the line), and                                 supervising their manufacture in
Mr. Swinbourne (having the entire                                   England, was placed by Robert
                                                                    Stephenson in the hands of his cousin
sAoleutxhaenrndrihaa, lf)M.rA. tHheinsrhyeaJd.-qRuoaurtseerswains  ' Mr. George Robert Stephenson, who,
                                                                    aided by his managing assistant, the
assisted by Mr. Pringle; and atCairo,                               late Mr. George Barling, completed
where Mr. Swinbourne had his head                                   them most successfully.

quarters, the principal sub-assistant                                   Every portion was manufactured
engineer was Mr. Duff. Belonging                                    in England, and tested before being
to Mr. Rouse's corps were also the                                  sent from the country. The immense
following engineers -- Mr. Anger and                                machinery for opening and closing
Mr. Bidder, Jun. (stationed between                                 the swing-bridge, was put together
Kengis Osman and Damanhour), Mr.                                    and tried, previous to its transmission

J. H. Stanton and Mr. Joseph Harri                                  to Egypt.

son (appointed to the part between
Damanhour and the Nile). Belong

                                                                   2

180  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Cn. VII.

at Montreal, and had even prepared a plate iron tubular
bridge for Mr. John Young (whom Canada has greatly to
thank for the bridge of which she is so justly proud),

consulted the inventor of tubular structures. Eobert

Stephenson gave the project his most earnest consideration,

visited Canada, produced an elaborate design for the

bridge, and as engineer-in-chief directed the operations
that resulted in the ' Victoria (St. Lawrence) Bridge.'

    In February 1853, the survey for the bridge, on the
site it now occupies, was entered upon. In the following

August, Eobert Stephenson crossed the Atlantic, person
ally inspected the shores of the St. Lawrence, had inter

views with the Directors of the Grand Trunk Eailway of

Canada, reconsidered his designs, settled the terms of his

contract with the company, and with a half promise to

visit Canada again in the course of the following year,

returned to England, leaving Mr. Alexander Eoss on the

spot to carry out the plans agreed upon.
    Of this Canadian trip, Mr. Samuel Bidder gives the

following particulars :--

  I had the pleasure of accompanying Mr. Stephenson to the

North American continent, and will relate one incident which
you may think worth recording. We travelled from Portland
into the State of Maine to Montreal, a distance of 300 miles,
by a special train drawn by a Bogie engine, the first known
engine of this kind having been built by Mr. Stephenson himself,
which, it appears, was copied by the Americans as being the
most suitable for their railways.

   Mr. Stephenson had never had an opportunity of seeing what
kind of road such an engine could travel over with safety before

the present occasion.
   The railway through the White Mountain district had only

been opened a few days, and we were told that many of the
embankments had sunk 5 or 6 feet, but they (the directors),

1853.]        SPEECH AT MONTREAL.  181

' guessed we should get along pretty safe ; ' and sure enough we

found the embankments looking more like the hollows between

Ithe crests of the waves in the Atlantic, than anything else can
compare them to. Mr. Stephenson and myself stood on the

platform of the cars, and had to hold on to the rails by both

hands, as hard as possible, to prevent ourselves from being

thrown off, for over this road we went, and round curves not

Imore than 200 yards radius, at a speed of from 15 to 20 miles
an hour, and  shall never forget the expression of Mr.

Stephenson's countenance during the journey. On our arrival

at the boundary line, which divides Canada from the States,

Mr. Stephenson jumped off, and examined the engine, and said

it was the most dangerous ride he had ever had in his life, but

that he was not sorry he had had an opportunity of proving and

witnessing what this extraordinary machine was capable of

performing. An engine built on the principle of those now used

in England would not have kept on the rails a hundred yards,

Iand yet this Bogie engine took us a distance of 58 miles, over

such a road as have described, in perfect safety.

   At Montreal, Eobert Stephenson was entertained (on

August 19, 1853) by the citizens, with a banquet as
magnificent as any that is mentioned in the records of

that hospitable city. The speech made on the occasion

by Eobert Stephenson was the best he had ever made in

public. He said :--

   He had come to Canada upon a professional visit, and from
what he had seen of the country, he was convinced that the
present was but the commencement of a great railway system ;

and he ventured to express his sincere desire, that Canada should
avoid those errors in producing the system which other countries
had committed with theirs. Canada was yet only on the
threshold, and the proper laying out of the plan he thought of
as much importance as the introduction of railroads themselves.
He hoped that the legislature of this country would not do as
those of some countries had done, for although there were

difficulties in the way, yet here it appeared to him they were

principally those of legislation. Canada, at present, had an

182          LIFE OF ROBERT STEPI1ENSON.       [Ch. VII.

Ifunoccupied field before her, and much would  depend upon the
first step.  it were taken with judgment,      other difficulties

would be of comparatively little importance.   If it were taken

injudiciously, what seemed but a speck in the west, might

become a thunder-cloud. The dangers might not be apparent

to Canadians at present, but before he sat down he would

endeavour to make them sensible of them. He had seen the

rise and progress of railways in England, and those who had not

could hardly appreciate the enormous losses occasioned by false

legislation. Few, indeed, knew the rise and progress of
legislation with respect to them. After obstacles raised in the
first instance had been removed, the people became sensible of

the immense advantages of the railway horse, and the question
assumed a new phase. Then all places rushed into railway
speculations. The country was tolerably well filled up with

railway bines. Competition arose within the walls of parliament,

not for interest, so much as for vanity. Parliamentary
committees took into their consideration, not who was right

and who was wrong, but entered upon questions entirely

subsidiary, not at all connected with the profit of the lines, or

the necessity for making them. The consequence was, that

committees sometimes decided upon different lines, upon reasons

entirely apart from their real merits, or the scientific questions

involved in the details. There was one district through which
it was proposed to run two lines, and there was no other

difficulty between them than the simple rivalry, that, if one

got a charter, the other might also. But here, where the

committee might have given both, they gave neither. In

another instance, two lines were projected through a barren

country, and the committee gave the one which afforded the

least accommodation to the public. In another, where a line was

to be run, merely to shorten the time by a few minutes, leading

through a mountainous country, the committee gave both ; so

that where the committee might have given both, they gave

neither, and where they should have given neither, they gave
both. Such a species of legislation was faulty, and he hoped it
would not be imitated in Canada. There was, indeed, a

committee, then sitting in England, the attention of which he

had called to these facts. After lines were granted, the

1853.]  ADVICE TO THE CANADIANS.  183

competition which began within the walls of parliament con
tinued when the lines came to be put in operation. People
said it was necessary to have competition for the benefit of the

public, that the whole country would be under the dominion of
a railway corporation, and competition was the only means of
checking it, and preserving moderate prices. Well, he could
say, upon the authority of the Board of Trade, and from his own
knowledge, that, since competing lines commenced, out of 300
millions of pounds expended, 60 millions had been wasted ; that
is, in duplicate lines. But, in order to mark the inconsistency
of the proceedings in railway legislation, when the London and
Birmingham was asked for the feasibility of the route was doubted ;
great difficulties were suggested as being in the way ; engineers

were called in to decide everything in opposition to it; the

estimates were disputed and doubted ; it was maintained that
the company ought to prove the traffic that was to go over
it, and that 6 or 8 per cent, were to be obtained on the money
invested ; in fact, a most paternal part was taken in the project.

Before parliament granted the charter, before the people were
allowed to expend their own money, they were asked to prove
the traffic, and the profit, and show a regular contract that
the work was to be done within the estimate. The people

clamoured for competition, and parliament granted the expen

diture of two capitals. At that time it was believed that

competition would compel them to carry passengers almost
for nothing. But, what was the result? The opulent were

struck down, and the poor were reduced to penury. Nothing
but the resources of British commerce could have sustained
such a shock. These serious difficulties of legislation it might
be difficult to escape from in England, but they should be
weighed well before they were brought into Canada, either

by the present or any future government. It was said, that

all was right, that the public gained what the proprietors lost.

But the public had not gained. Capital was absorbed and
diverted from other profitable employment. Lines had been
located, which never would have been built, had a directing
genius presided over the chartering of them ; and he did not
envy the man who could glory in one part of the community

prospering by the ruins of another. This error had been most

184  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.       [Ch. VII.

disastrous in England, and he hoped it would not be com

mitted in Canada. Competition had answered no useful pur

pose. Like poverty, a mother of invention, competition had
invented the remedy -- amalgamation.
                                      There is an instance,

where, including water communications, there are five com

peting lines. The result from competition was, that directors

laid their heads together and raised tolls to the highest ; but

in Canada, where there was no competition nothing was to

be done but to develop resources, and make the highest pos

sible profits. In Belgium, which had employed one or two

men to lay out the country, so as to obtain the greatest

amount of accommodation with the least expenditure of money,

the speed obtained was not perhaps so great as that in England ;
but it would bear comparison with that in any other country.

The minor points of the country were filled up according to the

original design, and all conducted with economy. In France

no lines were allowed to be made unless they were called for,

and made part of a great system. France was slow, but in other

respects bore favourable comparison with Great Britain, where

competition had marred the whole scheme. Switzerland was a

collection of cantons, each preferring its own interests as to

gauge and building without reference to the whole. They

decided to send to England for an engineer to design for them

a net-work of railways, and he (Mr. Stephenson) had the
honour to be called in, and assisted in designing their railways

from end to end, and capital was now flowing in, the country

being satisfied because there were no rival lines ; and there was

no doubt of their completion. As Canadians wanted English

capital, he advised them to be very guarded in the system they

should adopt, especially in regard to reckless competition. He

would for himself hesitate to recommend his friends in England

to invest their money in Canadian railways, if reckless competi

tion were allowed, for nothing but loss and confusion could

result from such a course. Belgium, France, and Switzerland,

all possessed a great advantage over England in having no rival

lines, and in having laid out their main lines for the benefit of

the whole country, rather than allowing to any town, or any

portion of the country, a preponderating voice in their location.

They had established from end to end of their countries a

1853.]  ADVICE TO THE CANADIANS.  185

system in harmony with itself. They could not prevent portions

of country having their railways, but such railways were too

small to interfere with the great design. It was the interest

of the Whole country that was involved, not that of individuals,

nor of particular localities. Canadians ought to have a system

which would work in all harmony. What was to be gained by
Ifruinous competition?
                           passions and animosities were brought

into play, nothing could result but destruction of property and

loss of life too. He could not offer a better comparison between

a system judiciously designed and a wild competition, than the

steamboat he was on board on the previous night. He found

that vessel was propelled by two engines, each separate from

the other, and he would suppose that they were under the

command of two rival companies. These would have their

t opponents and friends on board ; and he would suppose that the

engineers quarrelled : what progress would they have made ?

Would they have reached Three Eivers ? He had one word

more to say. He could not leave the city without saying

something on the all -important subject of the bridge. The St.

Lawrence was a most magnificent river, and he had received
abundant information respecting it from Mr. Alexander Ross,

who had been in the country several months ago, as to what
the bridge ought to be. It was a startling project and at the

time he had no idea of having anything to do with it. But i
having studied the admirable report of Mr. T. C. Keefer, and

the philosophical paper drawn up by Mr. Logan, he could

Ifunderstand from what had been written the general circum
stances to be considered.  possible, he would be in Canada

again at the breaking up of the ice. Still they might be

anxious to learn his impressions about the bridge, and he

would proceed to state them. According to his ideas there

was no difficulty to be apprehended from the ice. From cal

culations he had made since his arrival in Montreal, he was

satisfied that no shove that could come against the piers would

be sufficient to displace them. The people here had no doubt

seen the formation of the ice in winter, and its breaking up in the

spring. He had himself noticed these stupendous and beautiful

phenomena, of course, but he had not seen them as they are

at Montreal. He would say, however, that there were facts

186  LIFE OF EOBEKT STEPHENSON.               [Ch. VET.

attending the breaking up of ice, which were susceptible of

mathematical demonstration, and the pressure of the shove was

also capable of being valued. It was therefore as easy as the

addition of two and two to estimate the pressure necessary to

retain the piers in their places. He had been told that the ice

was piled thirty and forty feet high, but its pressure could be

easily withstood. He had calculated that if ice were piled twice
the height it would not disturb a well-constructed bridge. So

far, therefore, he would say for its permanency. He would also

perhaps be expected to say something about its site. The
minds of the citizens were agitated on the question whether it

should be below or above the town. He thought it his duty

not to conceal his opinion on this point, nor to permit the

agitation to go on, as if he hesitated on the point. It was

a difficult and important subject, but he had brought his 'best

judgment to bear upon  a it,and having no interest in one wayit
or another, he was in          itsituation to make an independent

selection. Whether the place was to be that laid out by Mr.

Keefer or not, he was satisfied must be above the island, and

not far below Nun's Island.

   On his return to England Eobert Stephenson sustained

a  great and irreparable loss in the death of his brother-in-

law Mr. John Sanderson. The brother of Mrs. Stephen

son (Eobert's Fanny of the old Newcastle days) had for
years been one of his closest personal friends, dwelling
     '
                        '
                                    a
in his house, and exercising           salutary supervision over

his pecuniary arrangements, both in Gloucester Square
and Great George Street. Eobert had so strong an

affection for him, that after his death, he could not for

months endure the solitude of Gloucester Square. Closino-

the house, he took apartments in Thomas's Hotel,'
                                       '

Berkeley Square, and did not return to his residence till

twelve months of mourning had expired.

   "While Eobert Stephenson undertook the chief command

in the construction of the St. Lawrence Bridge, Mr.

1853.]  CONTRACT FOR VICTORIA BRIDGE.  187

Alexander Eoss was united with him as co-engineer, to

carry out on the spot all that very important part of the
work which the engineer-in-chief could not personally
superintend. The positions and mutual relations of the
two engineers were accurately defined in the deed of
contract made September 29, 1853, between the Grand
Trunk Eailway Company of Canada, of the one part, and
William Jackson, of Birkenhead, and Samuel Morton Peto,

Thomas Brassey, and Edward Ladd Betts, all of London,

in England, contractors, of the other part. 'The con
tractors,' runs the language of the deed, ' will make, build,

and construct the said tubular bridge over the said Eiver
St. Lawrence, at or near Montreal, according to the plans,
sections, and specifications prepared and drawn by Eobert
Stephenson, of London, aforesaid, Civil Engineer, M.P.,
and Alexander M'Kenzie Eoss, of Montreal, C.E.' The
deed then requires : ' The Bridge when completed to be in
perfect repair, and of the best and most substantial
character, and to be approved of by the said Eobert

Stephenson.' It further provides, 'that in case of the

death, refusal, or inability to act of the said Alexander

M'Kenzie Eoss, another engineer shall from time to time

be appointed by the said Eobert Stephenson, in place of
the said Alexander M'Kenzie Eoss, and who shall have all
the powers of the said Alexander M'Kenzie Eoss. And in
the event of the death, or refusal, or inability of the said
Eobert Stephenson, then all things then remaining to be
done by the said Eobert Stephenson shall be done by an
eminent civil engineer, to be appointed by the president
for the time being of the Institution of Civil Engineers in
England, upon the requisition of the parties hereto, or
either of them.' Thus, after completion of the work,

188  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VII.

Robert Stephenson's approval --given on his sole and

undivided responsibility-- was required before the con
tractors should be held to have discharged their engage

ments. In case of the death, refusal, or retirement of the

resident engineer, it devolved on the engineer-in-chief
to appoint his successor ; whereas, in case of Eobert
Stephenson's death, refusal, or retirement, Mr. Eoss was
not qualified to nominate an engineer to occupy the
vacated place, but was required to act with the nominee
of the President for the time being of the Institution of

Civil Engineers of England.
    Marking yet more strongly the high control to be

exercised by the engineer-in-chief, a subsequent passage

of the contract runs, ' that if any question or difference of

opinion shall arise between the parties hereto, as to this
agreement, or any matter connected therewith or arising

thereout in any way, &c, it shall be referred to the

absolute decision of the said Eobert Stephenson, as sole
arbitrator ; and the decision of the said Eobert Stephenson
shall be binding and conclusive upon both parties as to
the question or difference of opinion so referred to him.'

    From the time of the construction of the London and

Birmingham Line, when he acted so frequently as arbi
trator between the company and their numerous con
tractors, Eobert Stephenson was constantly referred to in
the disputes of business men. He was no good friend to
lawyers. The amount of litigation he prevented by amiable
counsel would almost justify his memory being held in
abomination in Chancery Lane.

   In accordance with his agreement with the Grand
Trunk Eailway Company of Canada, he ha'd all the details

of the St. Lawrence Bridge settled under his supervision,

1853.]  CONSTRUCTION OF VICTORIA BRIDGE.  189

most of them being worked out in his office in Great
George Street, under the immediate superintendence of
his cousin, Mr. George Eobert Stephenson. The whole
of the iron work was designed in Great George Street,
was constructed in England, and was shipped to Canada
with detailed instructions, so that the engineers on the
other side the Atlantic had little else to do with that part
of the work except to put the pieces together in the

manner directed.

   'Eobert Stephenson did not make another visit to
Canada, as nothing occurred in the execution of his designs

to demand his presence.

190  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.          [Cn. VIII.

     CHAPTEE VIII.

         THE GREAT VICTORIA BRIDGE OVER THE RIVER

                           ST. LAWRENCE IN CANADA.*

    One of Mr. Stephenson's Last Works -- Line of Lakes and River St.
    Lawrence -- Difficulties of the Navigation --Introduction of Railways
    into Canada--The Grand Trunk Railway--Engineering Problem in
    the Design of the Bridge --Phenomena of the Ice--Early Proposals for
    a Bridge --Mr. A. W. Ross-- Mr. Stephenson consulted --Joint Report
    -- Mr. Stephenson visits Canada and reports again to the Directors --
    Surveys-- Letting of the Contract -- Iron -work -- Mr. Or. R. Stephenson
    -- Controversy on the fitness of the Design -- Mr. Stephenson's Views
    --Description of the Bridge-- Site -- Piers -- Tubes-- Erection of the
    Bridge -- Foundations -- Caissons -- Shortness of the Working Season --
    Contrivances to save Time -- Inspection of the Bridge -- Opening by
    the Prince of Wales --Difficulties overcome.

           was one of the last works on which Mr. Stephenson

THISwas engaged ; it was opened a few months after his

death. It is the largest bridge in the world, and its

design has involved engineering problems of a peculiar
and unusual nature.f

   The Victoria Bridge carries the Grand Trunk Eailway
of Canada across the Eiver St. Lawrence, at a point near
Montreal, where it is nearly two miles wide.

   * This chapter is contributed by      little 'Handbook of the Victoria
Professor Pole.                          Bridge,' written by Mr. F. N. Boxer,
                                         Architect and Civil Engineer, and
  t An elaborate work, profusely
                                         published by Hunter, Montreal, 1860.
illustrated, descriptive of the Bridge,      Free use has been made of both
has been published by Mr. James
Hodges, the engineer to the con          these works in some parts of the

tractors. Weale, London, 1860.           present notice.

   There is also a cheap and useful

1852.]  VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.         191

   One of the most prominent features in the map of
North America is the long line of water communication,

which, commencing with the magnificent series of Lakes
Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario, descends
from the latter of these by the Eiver, the Estuary, and
the Gulf of St. Lawrence, to the Atlantic Ocean.

   From Lake Superior to a little below Lake Ontario this
water line forms the frontier between Canada and the

United States of America, but the boundary then retreats
inland, on the south side, so that the lower part of the
river, namely, from the 45th degree of latitude down
wards, runs entirely within the British territory, and thus
separates two parts of our colonial possessions which
are of great richness and commercial value. On this part
of the river also are situated the two large and important
towns of Quebec and Montreal, the former at about 250

miles, and the latter at about 400 miles, above the mouth

of the river, or rather above the Point des Monts, where

the estuary may be considered to end and the gulf to

begin.

To this grand river, and the fine extent of inland

navigation above  it,Canada                  no doubt largely in
                               is

                                      is is
debted for her prosperity and growth. But for nearly

half the year the St. Lawrence sealed up by frost and
                                             ;

during this time not only all water traffic suspended

between the different parts of the country, but Quebec

and the other ports of the river and the lakes are deprived,

so far as water communication  is            concerned, of that easy

communication with the ocean on which their commercial

prosperity so much depends.
    But there are also difficulties attending the upper part

of the navigation, even in summer. The Welland Canal,

192        LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                 [Cn. VIII.

cut to form a navigable communication past the Niagara

Falls, is of such contracted dimensions, that although

vessels of 700 or 800 tons burthen can with ease get

up to Lake Ontario, none greater than about 300 tons

can reach the upper chain of lakes ; and therefore, at

this point, trans-shipment becomes necessary, both for

the import and the export trade.

     The obvious remedy for these disadvantages was a

system of railways ; and accordingly at an early period

the inhabitants expressed a wish to avail themselves of

this mode of providing for their traffic. The first effort

that took a practical shape was a line of railway in

tended to connect the Eiver St. Lawrence, at a point

opposite Montreal, with the great Atlantic harbour of

Portland, distant about 230 miles to the SE. This

line  was  called  the ' Atlantic  and  St. Lawrence  Eailway    '
                                                               ;

it had to cross the frontier, and thus was partly Cana

dian and partly belonging to the United States. It was

commenced about 1849 ; and by the middle of 1852,

at which time its proprietorship changed hands, two
lengths of it were opened, namely, from the St. Lawrence

eastward to Sherbrooke, a distance of 80 miles ; and

from Portland northward about 90 miles, leaving a
break in the middle of about 60 miles ' unfinished.

   By this time, however, two other railways had been
projected, one called the Quebec and Eichmond Eail

way, commencing at Eichmond on the last-named line,

and passing eastward to Quebec, a distance of about
85 miles ; the other on the north bank of the Eiver

St. Lawrence, extending from Montreal westward to

Kingston, about 170 miles, and called the Montreal and

Kingston Eailway. At the time referred. to, the former

1852.]    VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.  193

of these was in progress, and for the latter, powers to

construct had been obtained.

But it soon became evident that a more comprehensive

scheme of railways was desirable, and the subject having
excited interest in England during the summer of 1852,

an examination of the country was made, at the request
of the Provincial Government of Canada, by a firm of

English contractors, with the view of carrying out such a
project. The information they obtained led them to
promote the formation of a company, with the object,
first, of purchasing and completing the lines partly
made or sanctioned ; secondly, of adding other impor
tant extensions ; and thirdly, of uniting the whole into one

great system, by a gigantic bridge across the great water

chain.

   This vast enterprise is now completed, under the name
of the Grand Trunk Eailway of Canada ; and it comprises

upwards of 1200 miles of line. About one-half of this is

on the north side of the Eiver St. Lawrence, extending
from Montreal westward as far as Lake Huron; the

remainder is on the south side, and has two main branches,

one, the original Atlantic and St. Lawrence line, passing
southward to Portland ; the other, the original Quebec
and Eichmond line, extending eastward to Quebec.

There is also a further extension, which, passing down
the south bank of the St. Lawrence, ends at present

at a place called Eiviere du Loup. This latter branch

was made partly to open out the south-eastern provinces

of Canada, and to develope the great agricultural
resources of that rich district ; but it had also reference

to a far more important ultimate purpose.
   One of the main objects proposed to be attained by

VOL. ir.                      o

194  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                                [On. VIII.

the introduction of railways into the colony was to open

a communication between the interior of the country

and the sea, during that long period of the year when

the St. Lawrence is closed by frost. At present, the

Grand Trunk Eailway only accomplishes this by its

connexion with the United States harbour of Portland ;

but it is evident that circumstances might arise which

would render this mode of communication unavailable ;
and therefore it would be highly expedient to complete

the new roadway to the sea entirely through British

territory ; a measure, the expediency of which has often

been forcibly urged. The most obvious means of attain

ing this end would be to continue the line last mentioned

from the present temporary eastern terminus, about 400

miles further in a south-easterly direction, namely, across

New Brunswick and Nova Scotia to the fine Britisli port

of Halifax, which would put the whole of Canada in

communication with the ocean, at all times of the year,

in a manner independent of any foreign power.

The Grand Trunk Eailway;      however, even in its

present incomplete state,itremarkable national work.
                                aa
                                            is,

                                                                            ;

                                                  it
It traverses British North America in one unbroken line

for half the breadth of continent                                              connects and

associates together the several wide-lying dependencies of

the British Crown  affords throughout the year to the

inhabitants of the wonderful valley through which                              it

passes constant means of communication and transport

which nature had denied them  opens out the rich
                            ;;

                               it
                                      it
prairie country of the Far West and unites the whole

of these vast regions with the neighbouring territories of

America, and with the great maritime pathway of the
world.

1852.]  VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.  195

    Our attention must now, however, be confined to the
great bridge, by which the connection between the two
main divisions of the line has been secured. The

necessity for such a bridge became urgent when the
railways had made some progress, and Mr. Stephenson's
own remarks on this point will be hereafter inserted.
Suffice it here to say that from the head of Lake Su
perior to the Atlantic Ocean, a distance of more
than 1500 miles, there was not any bridge across the
great water chain, excepting at the Niagara gorge ; and
that, therefore, the key to the province would be

obviously in other hands, if the railway communication

could not be completed between the North and the

South sides.

    The engineering problems to be solved in the erection
of such a bridge near Montreal, were of a peculiar
kind. Although, at the point where it was desired to
cross, the river was very wide, and the current was
strong, yet the water was comparatively shallow, and it
seemed unlikely that the nature of the bed would offer
much trouble with the foundations. And since, after the

experience gained in the Britannia and Conway Bridges,
the use of iron for spanning large openings had be
come easy, the construction of a railway bridge would
have involved nothing beyond a question of expense,
had it not been for a difficulty peculiar to the locality,

and one scarcely known in English engineering -- the

extraordinary effects produced upon the river by the
great severity of the Canadian winter.

   To explain these phenomena it will be sufficient
to quote the description of them given by Mr. W. E.

                                                                  o2

106  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VIII.

Logan, F.G.S., in the Proceedings of the Geological
Society of London for 1842. He says : --

   The frosts commence about the end of November, and a

margin of ice of some strength soon forms along the shores ;
and wherever the water is still, it is immediately cased over.
The first barrier completed across the river, below Montreal, is
usually formed about Christmas, at the entrance of Lake St.
Peter, where the St. Lawrence is divided into a multitude of

channels by low alluvial islands. This barrier is rapidly in
creased by extensive fields of drift ice, enormous quantities of

which are heaped upon or forced under, the stationary mass.
   The space left for the water to flow being thus greatly

diminished, a perceptible rise in the river takes place, and by
the time that the ice becomes stationary at the foot of St. Mary's
current, opposite Montreal, the waters in the harbour have usually

risen several feet, and as the packing rapidly proceeds, they
soon attain the height of 20 and sometimes 26 feet above

the summer level.

  It is at this period that the grandest glacial phenomena are
presented. In consequence of the packing and piling of the

ice, as well as the accumulation of the moistened snow of the

season, and the freezing of the whole into a solid body, some
times more than 20 feet thick, the water suddenly rises, and
lifting a wide expanse of the entire covering of the St. Lawrence,
urges it forward with terrific violence, piling up the rended
masses on the banks of the narrower parts of the river, to the
height of 40 or 50 feet.

   In front of Montreal is a newly-built revetement, the top of

which is 23 feet above the summer level of the river ; but the
ice broken by it accumulates on the surrounding terrace, and
before the wall was erected the adjacent buildings were en
dangered, the ice sometimes breaking in at the windows of
the second floor, even 200 feet from the margin of the river.

   In one instance, a warehouse of considerable strength and

magnitude having been erected without this protection, the

great moving sheet of river ice pushed it over as if it had been

a house of cards ; and in another case, where a similarly situated

and equally extensive warehouse, 4 or 5 stories high, had been
provided with a range of oaken piles, placed at an angle of less

1852.]  VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.  197

than 45°, the drift ice rose up the inclined plane, and after
meeting the walls of the building, fell back, and formed, in a

few minutes, an enormous but protecting rampart. In some

years the ice accumulated nearly as high as the roof of the

warehouse.

   Several of these grand glacial movements [locally termed
' shovings '] take place, sometimes at intervals of many days,
but occasionally of only a few hours, the permanent setting
being indicated by a longitudinal opening of considerable extent
in some part of St. Mary's current. This opening, which is

never afterwards frozen over, even when the temperature is 30°
below zero of Fahrenheit, is due to th*e water having formed a
free subglacial as well as superficial passage, in consequence of
its own action and the cessation in the supply of drifting

ice.

   From this period the waters gradually subside, but seldom or
never to their summer level ; and when they have attained
their minimum, the trough of the St. Lawrence exhibits a
glacial landscape of undulating hills and valleys of ice.

   This description will make it clear that the great
engineering difficulty to be overcome in building a bridge
across the river was, so to establish the piers (of which
a large number were required), that while they should offer
the least possible resistance to the progress of the ice down
the stream, they should be strong enough safely to with

stand the enormous and almost unprecedented destructive
force to which they must be exposed from its violent

action.

   No doubt the idea that it would be advantageous to
bridge over the St. Lawrence must have occurred to
the Canadians at a very early period of the history of
the colony ; but we find no published intimation that such
a scheme was considered practicable until, in June 1846,

discussions were raised as to the proper site for the

198  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Cn. VIII.

 terminus of the Atlantic and -St. Lawrence Eailway, then

 in progress. At this time, the Honourable John Young,

 an energetic citizen of Montreal, and one of the railway

 directors, published a newspaper article, pointing out
 that the passage of the river by the railway would afford
 great facilities for the traffic, and expressing a confident
 opinion that the erection of a bridge would be ' perfectly

 practicable,' at a certain point named, coinciding very
 nearly with the site on which the bridge now stands.

     The suggestion seems to have made a favourable
 impression, for in September of the same year the
 directors of the Atlantic and St. Lawrence Eailway
 authorised Mr. A. C. Morton, their engineer, to cause a
 survey to be made for the purpose of ascertaining the
 practicability of building a bridge and of estimating its
 probable cost. Mr. Morton took soundings, but the
 nature of his report does not appear to have been

made public. In the meantime, a committee of

 citizens of Montreal was formed to investigate the same
 subject, and they employed Mr. E. H. Gay, of Penn
sylvania, then engineer of the Columbia and Philadelphia
Eailway, to make another survey. His report was
given in December 1846, accompanied by plans and
.estimates. He disapproved of the line selected by Mr.
Morton, but considered it practicable to build a bridge
across another site, at the moderate expense of about
525,000 dollars ; giving, however, no provision for the
navigation of the river by masted vessels.

    About this time a general commercial depression seems

to have prevailed throughout the province, and nothing
further was done till June 1851, when, on the pro
motion of the railway from Montreal to Kingston, which

1852.]-  VICTOKIA (ST. LAWHENCE) BRIDGE.  199

was proposed to join the Atlantic and St. Lawrence

line, the two companies agreed that another survey
should be made for a bridge ; and accordingly, Mr.
Thomas C. Keefer, the engineer of the Kingston line,
was commissioned to undertake it. He proceeded
with the work in this and the following year, but his
progress was delayed for want of funds. He wrote a
report on the subject, which was published in 1853,*

but the date of its presentation is not recorded ; it was

an able document, containing much valuable informa
tion, and Mr. Stephenson expressed a high estimation of
Mr. Keefer's labours.

    Meantime, however, the interest in the work had

passed into other hands. The St. Lawrence and Atlantic
line had become a part of the more comprehensive
scheme, the Grand Trunk Eailway ; and in September
1852 the Kingston Company also waived their charter in
favour of the same great enterprise, on condition that the
new proprietors would construct the bridge.

    When the examinations of the country were made, in
the spring of 1852, with a view to the formation of the
Grand Trunk Eailway Company, the promoters had
engaged as their engineer Mr. A. M. ,Eoss, who had
previously been one of the resident engineers under
Mr. Stephenson, on the Chester and Holyhead Eailway.
He had charge of the masonry of the Conway Tubular
Bridge, and Mr. Stephenson had a high opinion of his skill
in that department of engineering. The question of the

    * Report on a survey for the    Montreal and Kingston Railway.
Railway Bridgeover the St.Lawrence  Hon. John Young, chairman; Thos.
at Montreal, surveyed in 1851-52,   C. Keefer, engineer. Montreal, John
by order of the committee of the
                                    Lovell, 1853.

200  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPIIEXSON.  [Ch. VIII.

bridge over the St. Lawrence formed naturally one of

the most prominent subjects of enquiry, and in July

1852, Mr. Young, who has been already mentioned as
the original projector of the bridge, and who had ever
been its most energetic promoter, took Mr. Eoss to
examine the various points of crossing that had been
proposed ; and it is stated that, when near the site sub
sequently adopted, Mr. Eoss suggested that the iron
tubular beam principle would be applicable for the

superstructure. In October 1852, immediately after the
Grand Trunk Company had taken the matter into their

own hands, surveys were commenced on their behalf.

It was probably at this time that Mr. Keefer handed over,

for the use of the new company, the extensive and
valuable information he had obtained. About the end

of this year Mr. Eoss returned to England.
    The 'great importance of the bridge, the large expendi

ture it involved, the various opinions that existed as to its

practicability, and the great difficulties and risks con
nected with its construction in such a position, decided
the board of directors, previous to bringing it before
the public, to consult Mr. Eobert Stephenson, whose high
opinion it was deemed of great importance to obtain.

   With this view Mr. Eoss, after his return to England,
laid before Mr. Stephenson all the information collected
both by Mr. Keefer and by himself. The subject had

some months' careful consideration, and after many

tentative plans and estimates had been prepared, on
March 18, 1853, Mr. Stephenson communicated to the

Hon. John Eoss, Speaker of the Canadian House of
Assembly, a design similar in its principal features to that

ultimately carried out.

1853.]  VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.                             2.01

   Mr. A. M. Eoss returned to Canada in April, and soon
after his arrival, the same design was submitted to the
Board of Eailway Commissioners at Quebec, with a joint
report explaining its general features, and of which the
following is a copy : *--

        Grand Trunk Railway, Champ de Mars, Montreal :
                                June 6, 1853.

    To the Honourable the Board of Hallway Commissioners,

        Quebec.

    Gentlemen, --We beg herewith to transmit for your approval,

a design for the proposed Victoria Bridge for carrying the

railways across the Kiver St. Lawrence, at this place.

    On the map accompanying this report the precise locality is

clearly defined : the figures marked upon the map indicate the

depth of summer water, determined by soundings carefully

taken ; the shoals, which are numerous and intricate, are also

outlined as nearly as they could be ascertained.

    From an inspection of the map it will be seen that the site

selected for the bridge embraces as wide a range of deep water

as can be obtained by any line crossing the river, in the vicinity

chosen as the most eligible for this important structure, and

where the width across from bank to bank is 8,600 feet, the

deep water channel occupying about one-seventh of this width.

    The abutments of the proposed structure are placed 6,588 feet

apart, and the piers (twenty-four in number) occupy 450 feet
of this space, leaving 6,138 feet clear waterway, which is equal
to 93 per cent, of the whole, having an average summer depth

of  9   feet water, the navigable   channel being   15^ feet deep.
         is proposed to fill up    the intervening   space between
    It                                                              the

abutments and the shores on either side (700 feet in length on the
St. Lambert, and 1,300 feet on the Point St. Charles side) with
solid embankment composed of stone. The form of this em

bankment is delineated upon the drawing.            ·

    * This report is dated at Montreal ;  he authorised Mr. Ross, who had
                                          then returned to Canada, to affix his
but as Mr. Stephenson was at that
time in England, it is probable that      signature.

202          LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                   [Ch. vin.

The piers are proposed to be built of solid masonry, of such

form and proportions as will be in every way calculated to

withstand any pressure to which they may be liable from the

moving ice.

An explanatory diagram of these is shewn upon the drawing.

The superstructure is proposed to be of wrought iron, con

structed in every respect on the same principle as the Britannia

Bridge over the Menai Straits, on the Chester and Holyhead

Railway, and in uniform spans of 242 feet, excepting that over

the navigable channel, which is intended to be 330 feet.

The strength is calculated to resist four times the actual load

to be sustained, and equal to ten times the moving load, reckoned

at one ton to the lineal foot.

The clear headway above" summer water is placed at 60

feet for the whole width of the centre opening, a height which,

from the best information we can obtain, is ample for the

passage of any craft which can come down the rapids.

From the pier on either side of the centre opening, the

height gradually diminishes at the rate of 1 in 130 to the

extreme end of the tubes, and from this point falls towards the

shores at the rate of 1 in 100, to suit the local requirements

connected with the railways on either side of the river.

The leading characteristics of the design may be stated briefly

as follow : That only one-fifteenth of the space between the

abutments is occupied by the supporting piers. That the piers

are of the form best suited for withstanding any force to which

they may be exposed from the moving ice, and for severing the

floating masses in their progress. That a wide deepwater

channel is selected as affording the greatest security in reference

to the passage of the ice, and that the materials of construction

are of that permanently enduring character as will require a

minimum amount for efficient maintenance.

With a due regard to every consideration involved in this

important measure the accompanying plans "are respectfully

submitted for approval.        (Signed)    E. Stephenson.

                            ·

                                           A. M. Ross.

    The Eailway Board, on receiving this report, instructed
Mr. Killaby, the Assistant Commissioner ofBublic Works,

1853.]  VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.  203

to examine the plans, of which he reported his entire
approval. He discussed at some length the height of
headway proposed, as some persons were of opinion
it should not be less than 100 feet ; but he shewed

it was so improbable that vessels requiring this height
of headway could descend by the rapids from the
lakes above, that it would not be requisite to inflict on
the bridge the great and permanent injury of raising it so
high. Mr. Killaby's report was adopted by the Govern

ment, and the proposed bridge formally approved ;
and an intimation of the approval was sent to Mr.
Stephenson and Mr. Eoss on August 19, 1853.

    Although, however, the design of the bridge was thus
arranged, with tolerable precision, it was felt that the
weight of Mr. Stephenson's authority would be much

enhanced if he actually visited the site, and took personal

cognizance of all the various circumstances affecting the
measure. He accordingly left England about the
middle of July, and remained in Canada till September.
This visit enabled him to enter much more fully into the
details of the subject than before, and his more matured
views upon it were expressed in a letter to the directors,
dated May 2, 1854, which is of sufficient importance to

warrant its insertion entire :--

                                                        24 Great Georgo Street, Westminster :
                                                                              May 2, 1854.

   Gentlemen, --Absence from England, and other unexpected
circumstances, have prevented my sooner laying before you the
results of my visit to Canada last autumn, for the purpose of
conferring with your engineer-in-chief, Mr. Alexander Eoss,*

   * Mr. Ross was engineer-in-chief to the railway, with the general works
of which Mr. Stephenson had nothing to do.

204  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                       [Ch. VIII.

respecting the Victoria Bridge across the Eiver St. Lawrence, in

the vicinity of Montreal.

  The subject will naturally render itself into three parts, viz :--
      First --The description of bridge best adapted for the

        situation.

   Second -- The selection of a proper site.

  IThirdly --The necessity for such a structure.

Eegarding the first point, do not feel called upon to enter

on a discussion of the different opinions which have been

expressed by engineers, both in England and America, as to the

comparative merits of different classes of bridges, and more

especially as between the suspension and tubular principles,

when large spans become a matter of necessity. It is known to

me that in one case in the United States a common suspension

bridge has been applied to railway purposes; but from the

information in my possession, from a high engineering authority

in that country, the work alluded to can scarcely be looked

Iupon as a permanent, substantial, and safe structure. Its

flexibility, was informed, was truly alarming, and although

another structure of this kind is in process of construction near

INiagara, in which great skill has been shown in designing
means for neutralising this tendency to flexibility,  am of

opinion that no system of trussing applicable to a platform sus
pended from chains will prove either durable or efficient,

unless it be carried to such an extent as to approach in

dimensions a tube, fit itself for the passage of railway trains

through it. Such bridge may doubtless be successfully, and

Iperhaps with propriety, adopted in some situations ; but am

convinced that even in such situations, while they will in first

cost fall little short of wrought-iron tubes, they will be more ex

Ipensive to maintain, and far inferior in efficiency and safety.

      cannot hesitate, therefore, to recommend the adoption of a

tubular bridge, similar in all essential particulars to that of

the Britannia over the Menai Straits in this country ; and it

must be observed that, the essential features being the same,

although the length much exceeds that of the work alluded to,

none of the formidable difficulties which surrounded its erection

wall be involved in the present instance. In the Britannia, the

two larger openings were each 460 feet, whereas in the proposed

1853.]        VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.            205

Victoria there is only one large opening of 330 feet, all the rest

being 240 feet. In the construction of the latter, there is also

every facility for the erection of scaffolding which will admit of
the tubes being constructed in their permanent position, thus

avoiding both the precarious and expensive process of floating,

and afterwards lifting the tubes to the final level by hydraulic

pressure.

   In speaking of these facilities, it is a most agreeable and

satisfactory duty to put on record that the Government

Engineering Department has, throughout the consideration of

this important question, exhibited the most friendly spirit, and
done everything in its power to remove several onerous condi

tions, which were at one time spoken of as necessary, before

official sanction would be given for the construction of the

Iwork.                       found that Mr. A. M. Eoss had
   On my arrival in Canada,

collected so much information bearing on the subject of the

Isite of the bridge, that my task was comparatively an easy one.
    Amongst   the inhabitants of Montreal, found    two  opinions
existing on                                        the   one side
               this point --somewhat conflicting:

maintaining that the river should be crossed immediately on

the lower side of the city, where the principal channel is much

narrower than elsewhere, and where also the island of St. Helen's

would shorten the length of the bridge ; the other seeming to
be in favour of crossing a little below Nunn's Island.

   Sections of the bed of the river at both points had been pre
pared, and a careful study of these left no doubt on my mind

that the latter was decidedly the one to be adopted.

   In addition, however, to the simple question of the best site

for the construction of a bridge across the St. Lawrence, my
attention was specially called to the feasibility of erecting and
maintaining such a structure during the breaking up of the ice

in spring, when results take place which appear to every
observer indicative of forces almost irresistible ; and, therefore,

Isuch as would be likely to destroy any piers built for the support
of a bridge.  have not myself had the advantage of witnessing

these remarkable phenomena, but have endeavoured to realise

Ithem in my mind as far as practicable, by conversation with

those to whom they are familiar; and, in addition to this, have

20(5  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPIIENSOX.  [Cn. VIII.

read and studied with great pleasure an admirable and most
graphic description by Mr. Logan, of the whole of the varied
conditions of the river, from the commencement of the forma

Ition of ice to its breaking up and clearing away in spring. To

this memoir am much indebted for a clear comprehension of
the formidable tumult that takes place at different times amongst
the huge masses of ice on the surface of the river, and which

must strike the eye as if irresistible forces were in operation, or

such as, at all events, would put all calculations at defiance.
    This is no doubt the first impression on the mind of the

observer ; but more mature reflection on the subject soon points
out the source from which all the forces displayed must

originate.
    The origin of these powers is simply the gravity of the mass

occupying the surface of the water, with a given declivity up to
a point where the river is again clear of ice ; which, in this case,
is at the Lachine Falls. This is unquestionably the maximum
amount of force that can come into play; but its effect is
evidently greatly reduced -- partly by the ice attaching itself to
the shores, and partly by its grounding upon the bed of the
river. Such modifications of the forces are clearly beyond the
reach of calculation, as no correct data can be obtained for

their estimation ; but if we proceed by omitting all consideration

of those circumstances which tend to reduce the greatest force

that can be exerted, a sufficiently safe result is arrived at.

  IIn thus treating the subject of the forces that may be occa

sionally applied to the piers of the proposed bridge, am fully

alive to the many other circumstances which may occasionally
combine in such a manner as apparently to produce severe and
extraordinary pressure at points on the mass of ice or upon the
shore ; and, consequently, upon the individual piers of a bridge.
Many inquiries were made respecting this particular view, but

Ino facts were elicited indicative of forces existing at all ap

proaching to that which have regarded as the source and the
maximum of the pressure that can at any time come into opera
tion affecting the bridge.

  I do not think it necessary to go into detail respecting the

precise form and construction of the piers, and shall merely
state that in forming the design care has been taken to bear in

1853.]  VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.  207

mind the expedients which have hitherto been used and found
successful in protecting bridges exposed to the severe tests of a
Canadian winter, and the breaking up of the ice of frozen

rivers.

  I now come to the last point, viz. the necessity for this large

and costly bridge.
   Before entering on the expenditure of £.1,400,000 upon

one work in any system of railways, it is of course necessary to
consider the bearing which it has upon the entire undertaking

if carried out, and also the effect which its postponement is likely

to produce.

    These questions appear to me to be very simple, and free from

any difficulty.
    An extensive series of railways in Canada, on the north side

of the St. Lawrence, is developing itself rapidly ; part of it is
already in operation, a large portion fast progressing, and other
lines in contemplation, the commencement of which must

speedily take place.
    The commerce of this extensive and productive country has

scarcely any outlet at present but through the St. Lawrence,
which is sealed up during six months of the year, and therefore
very imperfectly answers the purposes of a great commercial

thoroughfare.

    Experience, both in this and other countries where railways
have come into rivalry with the best navigable rivers, has
demonstrated, beyond the possibility of question, that this new
description of locomotion is capable of superseding -water

carriage wherever economy and despatch are required ; and
even where the latter is of little importance, the capabilities of
a railway, properly managed, may still be made available simply
for economy.

    The great object, however, of the Canadian system of railways
is not to compete with the Eiver St. Lawrence, which will con
tinue to accommodate a certain portion of the traffic of the country,
but to bring those rich provinces into direct and easy connection
with all the ports on the east coast of the Atlantic, from Halifax
to Boston, and even New York-- and consequently through these
ports nearer to Europe.

   If the line of railway communication be permitted to remain

208  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPIIENSON.                     [Ch. vm.

severed by the St. Lawrence, it is obvious that the benefits which

the system is calculated to confer upon Canada must remain in

a great extent nugatory and of a local character.
   The province will be comparatively insulated, and cut off from

that coast to which her commerce naturally tends ; the traffic

Ifrom the west must either continue to adopt the water com
munication, or, what is more probable -- nay,        should say,
certain-- it would cross into the United States by those lines

nearly completed to Buffalo, crossing the river near Niagara.

No one who has visited the country and made himself ac

quainted only partially with the tendencies of the trade which

is growing up on all sides in Upper Canada, can fail to perceive,

that if vigorous steps be not taken to render the railway com

munication with the eastern coast through Lower Canada unin

terrupted, the whole of the produce of Upper Canada will find

its way to the coast through other channels ; and the system of

lines now comprised in your undertaking will be deprived of

that traffic upon which you have very reasonably calculated.

  IIn short, cannot conceive anything so fatal to the satisfactory

development of your railway as the postponement of the bridge

across the river at Montreal. The line cannot, in my opinion,

fulfil its object of being the high road for Canadian produce

until this work is completed ; and looking at the enormous

extent of rich and prosperous country which your system in

tersects, and at the amount of capital which has been already,

or is in progress or prospect of being expended, there is in my
mind no room for question as to the expediency -- indeed, the

Iabsolute necessity of the completion of this bridge, upon which,
  am persuaded, the successful issue of your great undertaking

mainly depends.  I am, gentlemen,

                                  Yours faithfully,

                 (Signed)          Robert Siemenson.

         To the Directors of the
Grand Trunk Railway of Canada.

   Meantime, active preparations had been made for the
construction of the bridge. The detailed surveys had

1853.]    VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.  209

been progressing all the year ; the visit of Mr. Stephenson

and his conferences with Mr. Eoss on the spot had tended

to settle more conclusively the details of the design ; and

on September 29, 1853, the contract was let for the

construction of the bridge. The contractors were Messrs.

William Jackson, Samuel Morton Peto, Thomas Brassey,

and Edward Ladd Betts ; and the contract sum for the

entire work was £1,400,000.

The iron work of the superstructure had to be made

in England, and the designs for this were entrusted by

Mr. Stephenson to his cousin, Mr. George Eobert Ste

phenson, who carried them out in all their details, and
superintended the entire manufacture at the ' Canada '

iron works, Birkenhead.

Some material changes were made in the superstruc

ture subsequently to the original design. The first pro

posal was, in all the openings except three, to place the
road on the top of the tubes, as Mr. Stephenson had done

in the Egyptian bridges, particulars of which Mr. Eoss

took with him to Canada. In the middle or navigable

opening, in order to gain headway, the trains were to run

through the tube, as in the Britannia Bridge, and the

adjoining openings on each side were treated similarly, so

as to form a continuous tubular girder of three spans.

On further consideration, however, it was thought better

to adopt this latter plan in all the tubes, and they were

altered.

Other changes were also made in regard to the con

struction of the girders. The central tube, being of larger

: span than the others, had been originally designed with

a cellular top, like the Britannia and Conway Bridges ;

but Mr. Stephenson having gained more confidence in

VOL. II.                     p

210  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Oh. VIII.

simpler means of giving rigidity, substituted plain plates,
with stiffening bars of angle and T. iron.

   Further, in the original design, the tubes were con
nected together in lengths of four spans each ; these
were afterwards reduced to two spans each, at Mr. G. E.
Stephenson's suggestion, in order to diminish the ten
dency to roll down the incline.

   About two years after the letting of the contract, and
when the works were considerably advanced, a controversy

arose as to the fitness of the design for the bridge. It

was represented to the Directors that the plans adopted

were extravagantly expensive, and that by using a dif
ferent kind of girder for the superstructure, and different
methods of founding the piers, a sufficient bridge might be
erected for about one-fourth the cost.

    Mr. Stephenson replied to these assertions at consider
able length, in a report dated November 3, 1855, and the
opinions of Mr. Brunel, Mr. Edwin Clark, and Mr. Eoss,
were also laid before the Directors in confirmation of

Mr. Stephenson's views.

   It appears that the Board were satisfied as to the

propriety of the designs, and the works were allowed to

go on. It is unnecessary, therefore, to enlarge further on

these discussions, but the following passages from Mr.
Stephenson's report throw so much light on his views as
to warrant their insertion :--

   It would evidently be unreasonable to expect that amongst

professional men an absolute identity of opinion should exist,
either in reference to the general design, or in many of the
details of a work intended to meet sucb unusually formidable

1855.]   VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.                211

natural difficulties as are to be contended with in the construc

Ition of a bridge across the St. Lawrence.

   You will remember that at the. time first entered upon the
consideration of the subject, these difficulties were deemed by
many well acquainted with the locality, and publicly stated by
them, to be, if not insurmountable, at all events of so serious a

Icharacter as to render the undertaking a very precarious one.
   The information received respecting these obstacles, when

I Imy attention was first drawn to this project, was so striking,

that reserved forming an opinion until had visited the spot,-
had well considered all the detailed information which Mr.

Alexander Ross had collected during several months' previous

residence in the country, and had heard the opinion of many

intelligent residents, regarding the forces exhibited by the move
ments of huge masses of ice during the opening. of the river in

spring.

The facts gathered from these sources fully convinced me

that, although the undertaking was practicable, the forces brought
into action by floating ice, as described, were of a formidable

nature, and could only be effectively counteracted by a structure

Iof a most solid and massive kind.                      made

   All the information which has been- collected since

Imy first report has only tended to confirm the impressions by

which was then guided.

   For the sake of clearness and simplicity, the consideration of

the design maybe divided into four parts: first, the approaches;

secondly, the foundations ; thirdly, the upper masonry ; and

fourthly, the superstructure or roadway.

   The approaches-- extending in length to 700 feet on the
south, or St. Lambert side, and 1,300 feet on the Point St. Charles
side -- consist of solid embankments, formed of large masses of

stone, heaped up, and faced on the sloping sides with rubble

masonry.
   The up-stream side of these embankments is formed into

a hollow shelving slope, the upper portion of which is a circular
curve of 60 feet radius, and the lower portion, or foot of the

slope, has a straight incline of 3 to 1 ; while the down-stream
side, which is not exposed' to the direct action of the floating

ice, has a slope of 1 to 1. These embankments are being

         p2

212  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                    [Ch. VIII.

constructed in a very solid and durable manner, and from their     it,
extending along that portion of the river only where the depth
       it                                                                    a
at summer level is not more than 2 feet 6 inches, the naviga-
         I                                                                                        it
tion is not interrupted, and a great protection is, by their means,'
afforded to the city from the effect of the ' shoves ' of ice whichaa

are known to be so detrimental to its frontage.I
   Advantage has also been taken of the shallow depth of water

in constructing the abutments, which are each 242 feet in

Ilength, and consist of masonry of the same description as that

of the piers, which am about to describe ; and from their being
erected in such a small depth of water, their foundations do
not require any extraordinary means for their construction.

   The foundations, as you are aware, are fortunately on solid
rock, in no place at a great depth below the summer level of
the water in the river.

   Various methods of constructing the foundations suggested
themselves, and were carefully considered ; but without deciding
upon any particular method of proceeding, it was assumed that
the diving bell, or such modifications of on larger scale, as
have been recently employed with great success in situations
not very dissimilar, would be most expedient. The contractors,
however, or rather the superintendent, Mr. Hodges, in conjunc
tion with Mr. Ross, after much consideration on the spot,
devised another system of laying the foundations, which was by
means of floating coffer dams,' so contrived that the usual
difficulty in applying coffer-dams for rock foundations would
be, was hoped, in great measure obviated. When in
Montreal, examined model of this contrivance, and quite
approved of its application, without feeling certain that
would materially reduce the expense of construction below that
of the system assumed to be adopted by Mr. Ross and myself,

in making the estimate. In approving of the method proposed

by Mr. Hodges, was actuated by the feeling that the engineers
would not be justified in controlling the contractors in the
adoption of such means as they might consider most economical
to themselves, so long as the soundness and stability of the
work were in no way affected.

    This new method has been hitherto acted upon with such

new modifications as experience has suggested from time to

1855.]  VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.              213

Itime, during the progress of the work, and although successfully,
   learn from the contractors that experience has proved the bed

of the river to be far  more irregular than was at   first supposed
                        of tolerably uniform ledges  of rock, large
--presenting, instead

loose fragments, which are strewed about, and cause much

inconvenience and delay.

   They are therefore necessitated to vary their mode of pro
ceeding to meet these new circumstances ; and it may be stated

that all observations, up to this time, show the propriety, not

withstanding the difficulty with dams, of carrying the ashlar

masonry of the piers down to a solid rock.

We are now brought to the question as to the upper masonry.

This question is exceedingly important, since the cost of the

masonry constitutes upwards of 50 per cent, of the total esti

mated cost of the bridge and approaches. The amount of the

item of expenditure for the masonry is clearly dependent upon

the number of piers, which is again regulated by the spans

between them.

   The width of the openings in bridges is frequently influenced,
and sometimes absolutely governed, by peculiarities of site. In

the present case, however, the spans, with the exception of the

middle one, are decided by a comparison with the cost of the

piers ; for it is evident that so soon as the increased expense in

the roadway, by enlarging the spans, balances the economy

produced by lessening the number of piers, any further increase

of span would be wasteful.

Calculations based upon this principle of reasoning, coupled

to some extent with considerations based xipon the advantages

to be derived from having all the tubes as nearly alike as pos

sible, have proved that the spans which have been adopted in

the present design for all the side openings, viz. 242 feet, have

produced the greatest economy. The centre span has been

made 330 feet, not only for the purpose of giving every possible

facility for the navigation, but because that span is very nearly

the width of the centre and principal deep channel of the

stream.

  It may perhaps appear to some, in examining the design,

that a saving might be effected in the masonry by abandon

ing the inclined planes, which are added to the up side of

214                 LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                             [Ch. vni.

each pier, for the purpose of arresting the ice, and termed ' ice

Ibreakers.'

   In European rivers, and believe in those of America also,

these ' ice-breakers ' are usually placed a little way in advance
of, or rather ' above, the piers of the bridges, with a view of

saving them from injury by the ice shelving up above the level

of (frequently on to) the roadway.
   In the case of the Victoria Bridge, the level of the roadway

is far above that to which the ice ever reaches; and as the
ordinary plan of ' ice-breakers,' composed of timber and stone,

Iwould be much larger in bulk, though of a rougher character,

than those which - are now added to the piers, have reason to

believe that they would be equally costly, besides requiring

constant annual reparation. It was therefore decided to make

them a part of the structure itself, as is now being done.

   To convey some idea of the magnitude of ordinary 'ice

Ibreakers ' placed on the up-side of the pier, and to enable you

to form some notion of their cost, cannot do better than

quote the following from the excellent report addressed to the

Honourable John Young, by Mr. Thomas C. Keefer, whose

experience in such matters, from long residence in the country,

entitles his opinion as to the proper character of such works to
Iconfidence: --
ver'yThleargepla"n        have  proposed  "cosnhtoeems,p"latceosvertihneg  planting  of
                    cribs " or   wooden                                     an area  of

about one-fourth of an acre each, and leaving a clear passage
                                    feet-- a width
between   them of about 240                         which                  will allow
ordinary  rafts to float broadside   between them.    These
                                                                           " islands"

of timber and stone will have a rectangular well left open in

the middle of their width, toward their lower ends, out of

which will rise the solid masonry towers, supporting the
weight of the superstructure, and resting on the rocky bed
of the river. This enclosure of solid crib-work all round

the masonry, yet detached from  if             will receive the shock,

                                          it,
pressure and grinding of the ice, and yield to a certain extent,

by its elasticity, without communicating the shock to the

masonry piers. These cribs, damaged, can be repaired with

facility, and, from their cohesive powers, will resist the action of

the ice better than ordinary masonry. During construction,

they will serve as coffer-dams, and being formed of the cheapest

1855.]  VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.  215

materials, their value as service-ground or platforms for the
use of machinery, the moving of scows, &c. Their application
to the sides of the piers is with particular reference to prevent
ing the ice from reaching the spring of the arches, which will

be the lowest and most exposed part of the superstructure, if

wood be used.'

   In the first design for the Victoria Bridge, 'ice-breakers,'

very similar to the above-described by Mr. Keefer, were intro

duced ; but subsequently the arrangement was changed, partly
with a view of gaining the assistance of the whole weight of the
bridge to resist the pressure of the ice (but it became fixed),
and partly for the purpose of obviating the considerable annual

outlay.

  I have not data at hand to estimate correctly the cost of the
Iordinary ' ice-breakers,' as described ; but have little or no
Idoubt that, as before stated, they would have required to

have been large and substantial masses of stone and timber,

which in amount of cost would be scarcely less than, if not

equal to, the inclined planes of masonry which have been added
to the up-side of the piers.

   It is now necessary for me to say a word or two upon the
style of workmanship. It consists simply of solid ashlar ; and

considering the severe pressure and abrasion to which it will be

subjected by the grinding of the ice, and the excessively low

Itemperature to which it will be for months periodically exposed,

  am confident that it is not executed with more solidity than

Iprudence absolutely demands; and considering the difference

of the rates of wages in Canada and this country, believe the

price of the work will come out nearly the same as any similar

work let (here) by competition.
   The description and style of the masonry is precisely similar

to that adopted in the Britannia Bridge ; the material is the
same, and the facility of obtaining it is not in any important

degree dissimilar.

    The following is a brief description of this remarkable
structure.

   The site of the bridge is at the lower end of a small
lake, or enlargement of the stream, about a mile above

216           LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                     [Ch. VIII.

Montreal Harbour. At this point the Eiver St. Lawrence

it is,  from shore to shore, 8,660 feet, or nearly                           mile
                                                                             a
and three quarters wide.
                                                                                  ;
        The level of the river varies at different parts of the
                                                                                         5
      year. From about the middle of April to the end of

      December remains at what called summer level, only
        a                            is

          it                                it

                                                  is a
      varying foot or two above or below certain line but

      during the other  3^  months, when              covered with ice,

      rises about 10 feet higher, and at the beginning and

      end of the period, sometimes as much as 15 feet higher.

        The depth of the river but shallow, varying fromis

      to 15 feet below summer water level.

        The current in the principal channels runs at the rate of

      seven or eight miles an hour.

        The bed of the river consists of slate rock, which lies

      bare near the shore, but covered towards the centre to
              it
                                  is

                                            a
a     depth of 12 or 14 feet with deposit of clay and gravel,

      so hard that was at first mistaken for the rock itself.

      Large boulders, varying in weight from to 20 tons, lie1

      scattered profusely about, often appearing above the

      summer water level the whole of this overlying matter
                        ;

      had to be cleared away at the site of the piers, so that

      their foundations might rest upon the solid rock below.

        The approaches are carried some distance into the

      river on each side, partly in embankments and partly

      in abutments of masonry,, so that the length of the bridge

      proper about 6,650 feet. This divided by stone piers
        is
                   is
                                            a

                                                    is
                                                                         is
      into twenty-five openings, of which the middle one, serving

      as the principal channel for the navigation,                           330 feet

      wide, and the remainder are each 242 feet wide.

        The bridge constructed only for one line of railway,

      the superstructure being       single iron tube extending

1855.]  VICTOKIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.  217

from end to end, through the interior of which the trains
pass,, in the same manner as in the Britannia Bridge.

   The height of the bottom of the tube above summer

water level is about 36 feet at the abutments, rising by a
gradient of 1 in 130 to 60 feet at the centre opening.

   Of the twenty-four piers of the bridge, all except the
two middle ones are alike in horizontal dimensions, but

they increase in height towards the centre, according to
the gradient of the tubes.

    Fig. 9 is a side elevation of one of the piers, and

        Fig. 9.

will give an idea of their construction. They are built
of solid masonry, composed of heavy stones, from 5 to

                                                                  

218  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VIII.

 20 tons each. They are founded with their footings
 resting on the solid rock, and are carried up, with the
 dimensions of about 90 feet wide by 23 feet thick,
 to within 6 feet of summer water level, at which
 point the ice-breaking plane begins. This is a slope
 of masonry, on the up-side of the pier, inclining
 backwards at an angle of about 45° with the horizontal,
until it reaches a height of about 20 feet above the
 highest or winter level of the river. The face of this
slope is pointed, like a cutwater, and the masonry
 is formed of large solid stones worked perfectly smooth,
 and strongly bound together internally with iron
 cramps, to resist the enormous thrust upon them. When
 the large floes, or sheets of ice moving down the river,
 come in contact with these massive constructions, they

are turned upwards by the slopes, and breaking down
 or toppling over by their own weight on each side of
the cutwater ridges, they fall into the open spaces be

 tween the piers, and so pass harmlessly down the

river.

    Above the ice slopes the piers are carried on, measur
ing about 33 feet wide by 16 feet thick, up to the level
.at which the tubes rest upon them.

    The two piers at the sides of the centre opening are
of the same general form and width as the others, but of
larger dimensions, being 30 feet thick at the base, and

24 feet at the tube level.

    The stone used in the piers is a hard grey limestone,
obtained partly from quarries at a place called Pont
Claire, near the north bank of the river, about sixteen

miles above Montreal, and partly from an island in Lake
Champlain,- whence it was brought by the Eiver Eichelieu

     *

1855.]      VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.                                               219

and the Champlain Eailway. Although coming from
points widely separated, these, two kinds of stone are of
very similar quality.

   The quantity of masonry in the piers and abutments is
about 2,713,000 cubic feet.

   The tubes for the smaller spans are 16 feet wide, and
18 feet 6 inches high at the abutments, increased to
22 feet in the middle of the bridge. They are made of
wrought iron plates, on a similar principle to those of the
Britannia Bridge, except that the top and bottom are not
cellular, but are formed simply of layers of plates riveted

together, and stiffened by ribs, gussets, and T irons.

   The centre tube has the same width as the others, but is

23 feet high, and the top and bottom have extra strength

and stiffening.
   The tubes are united in pairs, the middle of each

double length being fixed firmly down upon a pier, while
the two ends, resting on the two adjacent piers, are left
free to slide upon rollers, to allow for expansion and con
traction ; a small interstice being left for this purpose

between them and the next adjoining tubes at either

extremity.

a

   A

                    4
                               is,

                                       is
                                                     5
                                                                 6

                                                        if
                                                                 it
                                                                   it

                                                                                      is
No advantage       however, taken of the principle of

continuity, each half being designed as      were an

independent beam.

        single line of railway, feet inches gauge, laid

on longitudinal sleepers in the middle of the tube, and

footway feet wide placed on one side of for the

passage of the railway servants.

220  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VHI.

    The tubes are lighted by holes cut in the sides at every
60 feet, and they are protected by a light covering from
the weather.

    The weight of iron in the whole line of tube is 9,044

tons.

    There were above three thousand workmen employed
in the construction of the bridge, and the contractor's
plant comprised four locomotive engines, together with six
steamers and seventy-five barges, having a collective ton
nage of 12,000 tons. Upwards of two millions and a quarter
of cubic feet of timber were used in the dams, platforms,
and other temporary works.

    The carrying out of this great design in Canada, com
prising the getting in of the foundations, the building of
the piers, and the erection of the iron superstructure, was
a work of no ordinary magnitude and responsibility.
Mr. Stephenson gave occasional advice in this matter, and
sent out working drawings, accompanied with complete
instructions for the putting together of the tubes ; but
the credit for the successful accomplishment of this
portion of the work is principally due to Mr. Eoss and to
Mr. Hodges, the engineer sent out by the contractors.
The work occupied between six and seven years, and a
sketch of the principal events it comprised will complete
the notice of the structure.

   The general plan of the works having been decided on,
operations commenced in the winter of 1853. The river
being frozen over, and having assumed its ordinary winter
height, the ice was cleared and levelled along the line of
the bridge ; the sites of the piers were carefully set out,
and permanently marked by iron pins driven down into

1855.]  VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.  221

the bed of the river ; soundings were made in their
immediate localities, and the most eligible channels for

boats and barges were selected and defined.
    The plan originally proposed for founding the piers

was by means of large floating ring-dams of the nature
of caissons. Each of these was to be large enough to
encircle a whole pier ; it was to be built on the shore,
floated out to the site, moored and secured in position ;
then scuttled, sunk, and puddled, and the interior pumped
dry to allow of the construction of the masonry. The
only available time for operations in the river was
during the summer months ; and as no temporary works
could be left in the river during the ice-season, the dams
were so devised that, when the masonry within them
was completed, they could be readily floated again, and
taken to a place of safety, to be used for other piers in
the ensuing spring.

   Each caisson was 188 feet long and 90 feet wide
externally, the internal chamber being 102 feet by 42 ; the
front part or bow was made wedge-shaped, to stem the
current, and the stern or hinder part was movable, to allow
of its being taken away after the building of the pier.

   Dams on a similar principle were to be used for the
formation of the north abutment. Six of these were

constructed on the shore during the winter of 1853 ; and
being launched in May 1854, were towed up to the site
of the abutment, where the actual works of the bridge
were first commenced.

    The dam was completed and laid dry, and the masonry
was commenced in August 1854 ; the work had been
raised 6 feet above summer water-level when the winter set

in, and all further operations were necessarily suspended.

222  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VIII.

   In June, 1854, the dam was got into position for the
first pier; the masonry was begun in July, and the pier

was finished before the end of the working season. The
dam of the second pier was in place in July, and the
masonry was erected to a height of 4 feet above
summer level before the winter.

    But now doubts began to be entertained whether the
plan of founding by caisson-dams was the best possible.
The dams when floating only drew 18 inches of water,
but even with this light draught great difficulty was
experienced in navigating the shallow rapid waters with
so huge a mass.; and still greater trouble was en

countered in getting them into position. It was, there

fore, decided that an attempt should be made to found

the next piers by dams constructed of a species of
open timber framing, called ' crib work,' and much
used in Canada. Local contractors skilled in this kind
of work were accordingly engaged, and though great
difficulties were met with from the velocity of the stream,
the dam to No. 5 pier was completed during the working

season.

    Accidental delays had prevented the dams of Nos. 1

and 2 piers from being removed before the ice began to
form : it was hoped, by strongly protecting them, they
might be enabled to stand through the winter ; but this
hope was futile, for on the 4th of January, 1855, a gene
ral and violent movement of the ice took place, which
completely destroyed and carried them away. Other

injury _ was done also to the abutment dam, and to the
embanked approach ; but the permanent masonry of the
two piers and the abutment stood perfectly well, as did
also the new crib work dam of No. 5 pier.

1857.]  VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.  223

   During the ensuing winter, little was done beyond

providing timber and quarrying stone. In the summer of

1855 the works were resumed ; the north abutment was

carried up to high- water level ; the south abutment
commenced ; No. 2 pier finished ; No. 5 pier commenced ;
and crib work dams made and fixed for three other

piers.

   At the end of 1856, seven piers had been finished at

the north end, and two at the south end, and the masonry
of the south abutment had been brought up to a high
level.

   In 1857 five more piers were erected on the south side,

and two commenQed on the north.

   It was, however, now felt that the completion of the

bridge was likely to be protracted for many years, owing
to the shortness of the working season. The available

time each year was, at the outside, six months ; the
earlier portion was occupied in preparing for the setting
of stone, which could, therefore, seldom begin before the
middle of August, and all mortar work ceased by the
end of November, when the frosts set in ; so that sixteen

weeks constituted the whole working season for ex
ecuting the masonry of the bridge. This fact induced,
during the year 1857, the adoption of a very ingenious
device, of bedding the ashlar masonry in felt instead of in
mortar, as had been previously done with success at St.
Anne's Bridge over the river Ottawa ; and thus the erec
tion of the masonry could be prosecuted during the winter.
 Strips of asphalted felt, about three inches in width,
 were laid along the whole of the front of the masonry, at
 such a distance from the edge that the work might be
 effectually pointed. On each of the cross joints similar

224  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Cn. vm.

strips were placed, as likewise at the back of the stones.
As soon as one course of ashlar was laid, it was dressed

perfectly fair on the bed to a straight edge for the recep
tion of another course, which was superimposed in a
similar manner, the backing being laid dry and packed as
closely as possible. Open spaces or flues were left, about
one foot square, throughout the whole height of the pier.
The work was completed in this manner during the
winter, and as soon as the weather permitted, and the
frost was fairly out of the stone, the piers were carefidly
pointed and the whole of the interior well grouted from
the flues. The whole thus became one solid mass, the
clear water, which filtered through tjie joints, showing
very accurately the progress of the grouting. This ad
mirable contrivance hastened considerably the completion
of the bridge.

    During this year also was commenced the erection of
the iron superstructure, portions of which had been

already received. A timber staging or platform, of great

strength and stiffness, and supported at two intermediate
points by temporary piled piers, was fixed over the first
opening, and upon this the tube was erected. The whole of
the ironwork had been accurately manufactured and tem
porarily put together at the contractors' works at Birken
head, under Mr. G. E. Stephenson's supervision, and every
piece was carefully punched and marked before it left
England, so as to define its proper place in the structure.
Owing to the accuracy with which this was done, the various
pieces, during theerection in Canada, were fitted and riveted
together without difficulty. The bottom of the tube was

first completed, and adjusted to level and camber; the sides

were next added, commencing at the centre, and as these

1857-8.]  VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.  225

advanced towards each end, the plating of the top closely
followed.

   When the tube was finished, its supports were
struck away, it was allowed to take its own bearing, and

the piers and the temporary platform were removed for
use in another place. The first tube was completed
during the summer of 1857, and a platform was also
fixed for the erection of the twenty-fifth tube, the first
from the south end ; and the ironwork of this was also

fixed during the winter of the same year.
   In the next year, 1858, great progress was made, the

number of finished piers being increased to twenty-one,

and two others being brought up to above summer level.
The remaining pier (the eleventh from the north side)
was purposely delayed to give water-way for the naviga
tion, until the large centre opening should be completed.
Some modifications were made in the construction and

arrangement of the dams, and some accidents and failures

occurred, but strong efforts were made to push on the
work, and, on the whole, the year's progress was very

satisfactory.

   In this year also five more tubes were erected on the
north side, and five on the south side, while the platform

was prepared for the large central tube.
   In the beginning of the next year the erection of this

tube was commenced, and continued day and night ; and

it was finished and the supports removed by the end of
March, only a few hours before the ice broke up. The
most strenuous exertions were necessary to accomplish

this, for it was evident that, if the general movement

of the ice took place before the tube was clear of the

VOL. II.  Q

226  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VIII.

temporary staging, it would risk the carrying away of the

intermediate temporary piers, and the consequent entire

destruction of the tube ; and honourable testimony is
borne to the energy and zeal with which every man

concerned exerted himself, under great difficulties, and

in the most inclement weather, to contribute to the

desired result.

   In May the dam was commenced for the last remain

ing pier, the eleventh from the north side ; but a few days
afterwards it was carried away by two large timber rafts
which came floating down the river, and ran foul of this

and one adjoining pier ; many men, on the rafts and the

bridge works, were thrown into the stream, but fortunately
all were saved, though the destruction of property was

considerable. A new dam was immediately commenced,

and the pier was completed in September, and the fixing
of the iron superstructure now proceeded rapidly.

   In March 1859, Mr. Stephenson sent out Mr. B. P.

Stockman, (who had taken an active part under Mr. G. E.
Stephenson in the construction of the tubes,) accompanied
by Mr. Samuel P. Bidder, the former traffic manager
of the Eailway Company, for the purpose of inspecting
the progress of the iron superstructure ; and a few months

later, shortly before his death, Mr. Stephenson expressed
a further wish that another visit should be paid to Canada,
to examine and test the bridge on his behalf, previously to
its being opened for traffic.

   With this view, in November 1859, Mr. Stockman again
went to Canada, accompanied by Mr. G. B. Bruce, who
had been a former assistant of Mr. Stephenson's. Having

examined the entire bridge, and carefully tested the



1859-60.] VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.                                227

tubes by running through them heavily loaded trains,
they presented a report on December 17th, in which
they recommended that, after a few small matters
were finished, the Directors should accept the bridge
from the hands of the Contractors as being completed
satisfactorily. Mr. A. M. Eoss, who had assisted in the ex
periments, concurred in the report ; the bridge was opened
for public traffic two days afterwards, and. the formal,
inauguration by H.E.H. the Prince of Wales, who visited
Canada for the purpose, took place on August 25th, 1860.

   The period of six years, which was occupied in the
execution of this great work, seems by no means long,*
when we consider the peculiar nature of the difficulties
which had to be encountered, and which by the perseve
rance and energy of the persons engaged were successfully
overcome. The extraordinary rapidity of the stream in
summer, and the violent action of the ice in winter,

were elements of a magnitude seldom entering into the
operations of ordinary river engineering; and although
the water was comparatively shallow, the nature of the
bottom, and the immense boulders scattered over

involved great difficulties. The rigour of the winter

was also heavy trial, not only inreducing the avail
able working time, but also in its effect on the men
engaged, who, for the most part, being new to the
climate, were but ill prepared to brave its severity. In
the summer the scorching heat struck them down by
a

                                                                     it,

   * See some remarks by Mr. G. P.      xix. 227. It right, however, to

Bidder, contrasting the progress of      state that for the slow progress of the
their bridge with that of the West-    . latter structure, the engineer, Mr.
minster bridge, Min. Inst. C. E. vol.
                                         Thomas Page, was not responsible,
                                       Q
                                          2

                                                     p.
                                                                     is

228  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. VIII.

 coups de soleil ; while in the winter they were frost-bitten
 and blinded by the glare of the snow ; the thermometer
 was often 50° below freezing point, and during the winter
 of 1858, when such exertion was made to get the centre

 tube finished, and when consequently night-work became

Ifnecessary, the sufferings of the men were extreme.

 there was any wind, the portions of the body exposed
.to it became instantly frozen, and the men had, therefore,
 to work in thick gloves and heavy coats ; fur caps
 covered their ears, and heavy handkerchiefs were worn
 over the faces, leaving only a small portion free for

vision. It often happened, when the wind blew up

 stream, that the men would become covered with

 icicles, and be obliged to leave their work. Notwith
 standing all precautions, scores of men were frozen in
 their hands, feet, ears, and faces, and many had to go to
hospital in consequence, but, fortunately, so prompt were
 the remedial arrangements that no serious consequences
occurred. In the summer of 1854 the cholera made sad

havoc among the men ; in some cases nearly a third of the
 number employed were sick at one time, and many of
those who were not attacked ran away from the pestilence,
 so that the best men were lost to the work. To these mis

 fortunes were added the difficulties of great general scarcity
 of labour ; the necessity of bringing out workmen at great

 expense from England ; frequent strikes and insubordina
 tion among the men ; and the discouragement caused by
 hostile parties among the inhabitants, who declared the
 attempt to build a bridge to be a defiance of Providence,
 and prognosticated its utter failure. In 1855 the cost of
 the works became so much increased by the general
 financial depression consequent on the Eussian War, that

I860.]  VICTORIA (ST. LAWRENCE) BRIDGE.             229

the abandonment of the contract was seriously contem

plated ; and in a subsequent year great doubts were

entertained whether the financial means of the Company
would justify its continuance, nearly the whole of a valu

able season being lost in consequence. Peculiar difficulties

also arose from the isolation of the piers, for as there was

no space at any of them for stacking or sorting the stones,

every course had to be prepared at the quay, selected, and

shipped upon barges, exactly in the order and at the time

required. It followed, therefore, that a course, or often

even a stone, wrongly sent, or a barge getting aground, or

the loss or damage of any of the peculiarly shaped stones,

many of which were of great size, caused the whole of
the workmen, material, and plant, to remain idle till the

want could be supplied, which often took a week or

more.

However, all these difficulties were ultimately overcome,

and the bridge remains a lasting monument, not only of

the engineering knowledge and skill which designed  it,

but of the energy and perseverance of those who had to

carry the design into execution.         W. P.

230           LIFE OF KOBERT STEPHENSON.               [Ch. EX.

              CHAPTEE LX

     CONCLUDING TEAKS AT HOME AND ABROAD.

     Athenaeum Club -- Geographical Society -- Royal Society Club
     -- The ' Philosophical Club ' of the Royal Society -- Robert
     Stephenson, President of the Institution of Civil Engineers --
     Receives the honorary D.C.L. of Oxford --The Dark Side of his
     Prosperity-- Failing Health --Admiration of Mechanical Skill --
     Speech at Sunderland --The Wear Bridge -- Strong Affection for
     Newcastle --Periodic Visits to the Factory --Judicious and Con
     siderate Conduct to humble Relations -- Visits to Long Benton --

     Contribution to Painted Window in Long Benton Church-- Visit to
     Wylam --Isaac Jackson, the Clockmaker -- On Board the ' Titania '--
     Letter to Admiral Moorsom-- Hampstead Churchyard -- Social En
     gagements -- Trip to Egypt --An unfulfilled Presentiment --Letters
     from Alexandria and Algiers -- Last Christmas Dinner of Stephenson
     and Brunei --Last London Season --Last Visit to Royal Society
     Club --Last Will and Testament-- Last Voyage to Norway -- Opening
     of the Norwegian Railway --Banquet to Robert Stephenson
     Christiania --Last Public Speech.                        at

                         .mat. 47-55.

     STEPHENSON'S clubs were the ' Athen£eum>
ROBEanRdTthe
              ' Carlton    '  but the clubs  in which  he     found
                         ;

society most adapted to his tastes were the periodical
dinners of learned societies, or of coteries composed of
certain members of learned societies.

He was a member of the Geographical Society, and he

was a frequent attendant at the dinners of that learned

body.

   But the ' dinner-club ' in which he most delighted was
the Eoyal Society Club. Of the ' Philosophical Club ' of

the Royal Society he could not be a member, having

1856-8.]  HONOEAKY DEGREE AT OXFORD.  231

neither contributed a paper to the transactions of any
society, nor published a distinct treatise. To the last, the
productions of his pen (with the exception of his article
on ' Iron Bridges ') were official reports, or brief state
ments of fact, connected with professional operations.
But the Eoyal Society Club, having no such exclusive
condition attached to the honour of membership, on
Thursday, April 26, 1855, the inventor of the Tubular

Bridge was proposed for election by Professor Wheatstone,

and seconded by Sir Boderick Murchison. At this period

the club dined at the Freemasons' Tavern.

    On March 6, 1856, Eobert Stephenson made his first
appearance as a member, Colonel Sabine being in the
chair ; Sir John Eennie, Dr. Peter Eoget, Brofessor
Wheatstone, Mr. George Eennie, and Sir Benjamin Brodie

being present.

   At these dinners Eobert Stephenson was one of the
principal attractions and causes of enjoyment. He
thoroughly enjoyed them, always stopping late for ' just
another cigar and a little more talk'--and retiring at

midnight to a friend's house, or another convenient club,
for ' a little more talk and just another cigar.'

   From 1856 to 1858, Mr. Stephenson occupied the
Presidential Chair of the Institution of Civil Engineers.
His inaugural address, on entering office, is printed in

the Appendix.
   On June 25, 1857, Bobert Stephenson received the

Honorary D.C.L. degree of Oxford, together with Sir
Colin Campbell, G.C.B. (Lord Clyde), Earl Bowis, Sir
George Cornewall Lewis, Bart., Sir John M'NeilLK.C.B.,

Isambard Kingdom Brunel, and Dr. Livingstone (the
explorer).

232       LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. LX.

   But, with all his social success, Eobert Stephenson's life
had in these latter years much of sorrow. He had reached
the period of life when men who have no children con
fess to themselves that the glory of their days is only a
shadow. To those who enjoyed his inmost confidence,

he more than once revealed his sadness, and he was

counselled to rouse himself against despondency.
    His health was irreparably broken ; but to the last

he was so full of animation when in society that men
found it difficult to imagine him other than he appeared.
His hair had indeed turned white without long warning,
but it was remembered that George Stephenson had
a snowy head while he was still in the prime of man
hood. There were those also who could tell how the

amiable and gentle-tempered man began to manifest
a passing peevishness and irritability on trivial provoca
tions. Those who knew him thoroughly saw in these
and other symptoms the conclusive proofs of serious
mischief affecting health. But few suspected how he
struggled against melancholy, and how he looked for
ward to death. The quiet of his house, when it was
without guests, he could not endure. Often he walked

about the lonely rooms, and sat down to yield to sorrow
which in the presence of others he courageously sup

pressed.

     In these last days he used to look regretfully on

the scenes of his early professional triumphs, and of his

wedded joy in the little house in Greenfield Place, New

castle. 'The Eobert Stephenson of Greenfield Place is

Ithe Eobert Stephenson am most proud to think of ! ' he

once said to a lady. He was at  qll  times very fond of

the mechanical department of engineering, and to the

last no part of his cares afforded him more pleasure than

  1858.]    THE WEAR BRIDGE.                       233

  the direction of the Newcastle factory. His admiration

  of ' really good, honest mechanical labour ' was enthusi
  Ifastic.
            he railed paradoxically at new-fangled notions

  for educating workmen, he did so from a lively sense of

  the comparative worthlessness of superficial education.
  For the ' skill of artisans ' he had a strong poetic sym

  pathy, and as his career drew to a close, his affectionate

  appreciation of the class from which his father had

  sprung manifested itself in many pleasant ways.

  When he, in company with the members of the Insti

  tute of Mechanical Engineers, visited Sunderland in 1858,

  and received an address from the workmen then engaged

  in preserving that noble relic of Thomas Paine's genius

  for mechanics -- the bridge over the Wear --he said in

  reply-

    IThere are no members of society for whom have a higher

  respect than for industrious and intelligent workmen. It is to

  them that the engineer is indebted for the full and efficient
  realisation of his conceptions -- which, however good they may
  be, must largely depend upon the skill of the workman for

  their success. The progress made in the higher branches of

  engineering during the last thirty years, may be attributed, in
  a great degree, to the improved skill and intelligence of the
  workmen. The advance of mechanical science, and its applica
  tion to useful purposes, must always go hand in hand with

  Ithe skill and also with the comfort of the working classes.

  cannot refer to a better example in proof of this than the bridge
  upon which we are now standing. The alterations and improve

  ments which you are so admirably carrying on, could not have

  been executed at the time when the original bridge was designed.

  If the engineer, therefore, had even designed the bridge as it is

  now intended to be made, his mental labour would have been

  vain and useless, for there was not sufficient skilled labour in
  Ithe country to realise such an idea.
                                         merely take this bridge

  as an appropriate example on the present occasion, because it is

  a work you are now carrying on under my own direction ; but it is



234  LITE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                                                      [Ch. IX

Ionly necessary to look around, and we meet everywhere witn

engineering works to which the remarks have just made apply
in the strictest manner ; and reflection on such subjects teaches
us to feel that skilled labour is the great fulcrum upon which all
our social progress depends, and that the success of this pro

gress is just in proportion to the skill of the labour brought lo

bear upon the great works so thickly scattered thoughout the

country.

'The bridge over the Wear, of which Eobert Stephen

son spoke in these terms, consists of a single circular

arch of 236 feet span, with a rise of 34 feet. As the

springings commence at 95 feet above the bed of the

river, the whole height of the structure above low water

being about 100 feet, vessels of from 200 to 300 tons

                          without striking their masts.
It

                   '
                                           it,

                                                     '
                                                                                   '

                                                                                                                                                               ;
burthen can pass under

     was built by Thomas Wilson, at the instigation of Eow-

land Burdon, the Member of Barliament for the county
and the engineer, in accomplishing his task, carried out

successfully Tom Payne's ideas with regard to open

voussoirs. The stability of the bridge,' observes Eobert
Stephenson, in his article on Bon Bridges,' has been at

all times, however, extremely precarious, and ordinary

prudence cannot much longer delay its entire removal.'

As another part of this work mentions in detail the

operations of extraordinary prudence by which that

wonderful arch has been made durable,                                                unnecessary
a

                                    It

                                                    is
                                                             it
                                                                                 is
here to dwell upon them.  enough to say that the

labour of restoration, not entirely completed till Eobert

Stephenson was placed in the grave, was his last work --

     work carried out by Mr. G. H. Phipps, the same

engineer who had assisted him in his early labours on

the locomotive.

Both by deed and word Eobert Stephenson showed his

1857.]  LAST VISITS TO NEWCASTLE.  235

care for workmen--especially for the workmen of New
castle. The Newcastle Philosophical and literary Insti

tute was embarrassed with a debt of £6,200, when, mindful

of the benefits he had derived in youth from its library
and lectures, he volunteered to pay off half its debts,
provided that the rest of the incumbrance was wiped off
by a public subscription, and that the subscription for
members was lowered from two guineas to one guinea
per annum. This latter condition was insisted on, for
the sake of the many workmen who, in Newcastle and
the immediate neighbourhood, are bent on the work of
self-education. From time immemorial, the working
classes of the Northumbrian coal-field have abounded
with George Stephensons -- of less commanding genius
and less kind fortune.

   In like manner, when it was proposed, in honour of

George Stephenson, to erect the Willington Memorial
Schools on the site of the house in which he dwelt, whilst

acting as brakesman to the ballast^engine, Eobert Stephen
son came forward with open purse. The Memorial
Schools, the Gothic architecture of which relieves the eye
of steam-boat passengers, grown weary of the wharves
and factories of the Tyne, were mainly raised by the
younger Stephenson's wealth. Of the £2,500 expended
upon them, £1,200 was his donation, £600 came from
his executors, the rest of the sum being made up by the
Government Educational Grant and a few private sub

scriptions.

   A visit to Newcastle, to look over the factory, was to

Eobert in his later years an excursion of pleasure rather

than of business. Tyneside men. were genuinely proud
of him. As soon as it was rumoured that he had

236  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. IX.

arrived at his hotel, friends hastened from all quarters
to ' the Chief ; ' and others, who could scarcely claim
the honour of his friendship, came on divers pretexts,
or with no excuse at all, to pay their respects to 'Mr.
Stephenson.' The morning after his arrival, when he
walked down to ' the works,' there was an unusual stir

in the thoroughfares, and the number of times the visitor-
townsman had to nod, or raise his hat, or shake hands,

was a strong testimony to the regard which all classes
entertained for him.

    As he approached the factory, the old dog, that had for
years spent eleven hours out of every twelve in slumber,
roused himself and walked sedately up the lane, to lick his

boots, and receive a biscuit from his hand. A buzz

amongst the workmen testified how thoroughly the general
was beloved by the privates in his army. Amongst them

there were many of his near relations -- first and second

cousins of the whole or half blood, and some few who, on
similarity of name, laid claim to a kinship that did not in

reality exist. Eobert's conduct towards his almost count
less poor relations, on his mother's side, deserves a word of
notice. He could not have raised them above the lowly
condition of their birth, had he desired to do so ; and

even if the will and the power to exalt them had been his,

he would have done no good by removing them from a way
of life in which they were useful and honest members of
society. But he never looked coldly on any of his kindred.
He was well pleased to know that they were good workmen ;
and he was careful that his influence should tell in their

favour, without rousing hopes that could only in the long
run beget disappointment and discontent. There was con

1857.]  OLD FRIENDS.  237

sequently an understanding, based on a healthy clannish

sentiment, that workmen with 'the Chiefs' blood in their
veins were to be received at ' the works,' tried, employed,

and advanced according to their merit. When trade was

dull, and hands had to be put on short work or dismissed,
kinship was a benefit, for ' the Chiefs ' relations, provided
they were industrious and of good character, were pro
tected against the reverses to which labour is liable in
times of commercial stagnation. And when Eobert was
brought personally in contact with them, he conversed
affectionately with them ' as relations,' inquiring after

their common kindred, and reminding them of the time
when he used to be entertained in their mothers' cabins.

   In the autumn of 1857, Eobert Stephenson stayed

longer than usual at Newcastle, and made excursions in
the neighbourhood to the familiar scenes of his youth.
Accompanied by 'Mr. Matthew Bigge and Mr. Charles
Manby, he went to Killingworth. He always enjoyed a
trip to the old cottage on the West Moor, but this autumn
 the events of the jaunt were unusually gratifying.

    After visiting the ship-building yard of Messrs. Mitchell

and Son at Walker, the three companions went on to Long

Benton. On their way they passed the blacksmith's shop
to which Eobert in his boyhood used to trudge with a
 load of picks on his shoulders. ' Ay,' .he exclaimed,

I' that's where used to carry the pitmen's picks to get

 them mended.' Coming to the rivulet that runs under
the bridge near Long Benton churchyard, he said, ' That's

Iwhere have fished for many an hour.' In the same way,

on entering the ' parson's field ' before the West Moor
cottage, he observed that ' it was the field in which he

238  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. IX.

used to torment the cows, by bringing down the electricity
to their tails, by his kite-string.'

   As they crossed the colliery tram-way before the
cottage, they came on an old' man, stationed there as

gate-keeper.

   ' How long have you been here ? ' asked Eobert, accost

ing the man.
    ' Why, aboon forty year,' was the answer.

   ' And what do they call you ? '
    ' Why, they ca' me Clark, bot wha' ar' thoo ? '

  I' 'm Eobert Stephenson.'

    ' What ! Eobert Stephenson ? ' stammered the old man,

collecting his wits.
    ' Yes, George's Eobert,' answered Mr. Stephenson.

   At the time these sentences were exchanged, the old

man was getting his tea, holding a hunch of dark bread
in one hand, and a tin can of hot tea in the other.

Becoming greatly excited, the aged workman put down
his tin vessel and bread on a bench, and grasping Eobert
by both hands, exclaimed, ' Eh man, but a's varry glad

to see thoo.'

   And then with tears in his dim eyes, a smile on his

face, and a choking in his voice, the veteran went on--

' Mony a time I've paid (i.e. beaten) thy heed, for thoo
was a hemp (i.e. an idle, saucy fellow), and thoo was
niver oot o' mischief, when thoo cam on th' pit heap

wi' thy fether's meat.'
    Passing on to the cottage, Eobert inspected the sun

dial, the plan of which his boyish hands had traced ; and
then knocking at the door he asked for admission to the
rooms in which so large a period of his early life had been
passed. Of course he was received with hearty Northum

1857.J  THE OLD COTTAGE.  239

brian welcome by the good woman who opened the

door.

   The first thing that struck Eobert's eye on entering the
cottage was that the little recess in the wall, where his
blackbird best liked to stand forty years before, had been
blocked up. ' What has thoo done with my blackbird's
corner ? ' was his enquiry to the surprised dame, who
marvelled not a little at the question. The next thing
that caught his eye was a piece of furniture, embracing
the conveniences of escritoire and book-case, that reached

from the floor to the ceiling of the principal room. It

was the work of his father's hands, and in the autumn of

1859 remained in the room where its artificer placed it.
    ' Do you know there is a secret drawer in that desk ? '

Eobert enquired of the dame who was playing the part
of hostess.

   ' It has nae secret drawer,' answered the woman

sturdily.
    ' Oh, but it has ; ' replied Eobert, stepping forward as

Ihe spoke, ' know it has : for it was made by my

father.'

   In another moment the button was touched, and the

hidden drawer flew open : but to the disappointment of
the spectators it was empty.

    Till that moment the people of the cottage had been

ignorant of the concealed contrivance, and of the fact that
the piece of furniture was made by George Stephenson.

    After gossiping with the people of the cottage for a
few minutes longer, Eobert Stephenson rose with tears in

his eyes, and for the last time crossed the threshold of
 the old home. Miss Tate (the niece of Eobert's play
 mate, John Tate), who three years since, when collections

240  '  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.       [Ch. IX.

for this biography were being made, was hostess of the

ale-house (the ' Closing Hill House ') at the West Moor,

recalls how Eobert, in the year preceding this last visit to

Killingworth, called at the ' Closing Hill House,' and en
quired for the landlord, Eobert Tate --John Tate's brother.

   Eobert was then suffering from illness, and so grey and

changed in appearance had he become, that Eobert Tate

on entering the room did not' recognise him.
    ' What, don't you know me, old friend % ' asked Eobert,

much affected.

   ' Why -- ' said Tate, after a pause, ' it must be Eobert

Stephenson.'

   ' Ay, my lad,' answered Eobert ; ' it's all that's left of

him.'

   Then, sitting down in the little ale-house parlour,

Eobert Stephenson spent an hour and a half talking

affectionately about days that were of the past to his
' ofd friend ' Tate, and to the neighbours who chanced to
' drop in.' Eecalling the great man's demeanour on that

occasion, Miss Tate says, 'He was full of condescension.'
   Just about the same time that Eobert paid his 'last

visit to the old home,' he went over to Wylam, and

looked once more at his father's birth-place.* Among

   * Dr. John Besley, the vicar of                       24 Great George Street,
Long Benton, communicated for this
work a fact that pleasantly illustrates                           Westminster,
Robert Stephenson's affection for the
parish of his boyhood. In 1855,                                  March 24, 1855.
when Long Benton Church was being
rebuilt, Dr. Besley wrote to Tommy         Sir, -- I am glad to learn that Long
Rutter's old pupil, asking for a sub
                                         Benton Church is being rebuilt, and
scription to a painted window, and
in reply received the following          Ias it is the only church with which
note :--                                 Ican associate my early boyhood,

                                         beg to respond to your application
                                         for the painted window by enclosing
                                         ten pounds. -- Yours truly,

                                                          Robeki Stephenson.
                                            Rev. John Besley.

1857.]         MR. KELL TO HIS SISTER.                                             241

 other village worthies whom he then honoured with ait,
                                           a
call was Isaac Jackson --one of those ingenious, self-
a
taught mechanicians, with whom the black-field of North-'
umbria abounds. Isaac Jackson's clocks are well reputed
 in pitmen's cabins for miles round, and at the time of
Eobert Stephenson's last visit to his father's native village,
the foremost craftsman of the little community was busy
in making a clock of more than ordinary excellence.
Ever ready to show his sympathy with genius labouring
under difficulties, Eobert gave Isaac Jackson an order for

a clock--made in his very best style. With due delibera

tion, Isaac executed the commission by the end of the
following year. On December 14, 1858, the clock was
sent to the late Mr. Weallens at the works, and when

Eobert received he not only paid the sum charged by
the maker (£33), but added as complimentary fee £6.
One would like to know by what computation Eobert

restrained his liberality, so that the entire sum paid was
just £1 short of even money.

   In the same autumn, after visiting for the last time
Gateshead and Killingworth, Eobert Stephenson started
on yachting expedition with his friends Mr. Kell,
Mr. G. P. Bidder, and Mr. Elliot. In letter, which gives
picture of Life on board the Titania,' Mr. Kell, on his

return to Gateshead, wrote to his sister --
                                    a
                                           a

                                                        :

                                                                                 a
My dear Sisteb, -- have had                      October 26, 1857.
'
                                    most delightful excursion
    I

                              a

                    I
since saw you at Harrogate. My old friend and schoolfellow

Eobert Stephenson came down here in his schooner yacht,

Titania,' with crew of sixteen men, good cook, and first-
                                              a
                                                                    a

                                                                                a
rate cellar --and he impressed me on board on  voyage to

Aberdeen, Peterhead, Cromarty, Inverness, along the Caledonian
Canal, through the magnificent Lochs Ness, Aich, and Lochy to

VOL. It.                         B

242  LIFE OF KOBERT STEPHENSON.                                                         [Gel LX

Loch Eil. We had an ample supply of astronomic and mathe

matical instruments ; and one person on board, at least, knew

how to use them. We made repeated observations on the

temperature of the water at the surface, and at various depths,

Iat one place in Loch Ness at a depth of 170 fathoms. Mr.

Bidder, Mr. Elliot, and composed the guests, and our discus

sions over our cigars in the evenings were most interesting.
* * * * Then we bore away for Holyhead ; and having

Iexamined the gigantic works of the harbour of refuge there, we
devoted a day to the Britannia Bridge.  can never forget the

interest which the designer and executor of that magnificent

monument of skill and enterprise excited in us, as he described

in his quiet way the general design, the objects to be effected by

the different parts, the difficulties encountered and overcome in

the erection, and the fact that if each of the enormous tubes

were sawn through in the middle, the bridge would carry the

trains. The principal part of the description was given on the

top of the tube, on a beautiful morning, in full view of the

Naples-like scenery of the Menai Straits, and the distant Welsh

mountains, Snowdon and its associates. We smoked a cigar in

quiet contemplation before we left the spot, none of the party

being disposed to speak, and returned to Holyhead quite

Idelighted. The next morning had intended returning home,
Ibut when got on deck, the yacht was spanking before the wind,

which in a very few hours wafted us to Kingston Harbour.

Judge Keogh gave us some amusing reminiscences of his

discussions in the smoking-room, with Bright, Cobden,
Stephenson, and other friends of both sides of the house. * * *

The judge, his lady, and a party paid us a return visit on board

the 'Titania,' and were delighted with the elegance and accommo

dation of the saloon and cabins, but not particularly so with the

boat passage in the harbour, where a rolling swell had been

raised by the easterly wind, which had begun to blow, and

which, increasing to a gale, has since caused fearful damage and

loss of life. The only misfortune that befell us was on the

night we sailed from Sunderland, when, off the Bell Eock, the

wind freshened and northered, the sea rose, and at 11.30 p.m.

townobowaarvde--s f(islaleildorsthecacllutttheermwhsicehas)wams eotnondaovuitrs  deck,  and broke
                                                                                 seven  feet above

the deck, and broke the after davit (an iron bar of great

1858.]         A YACHT VOYAGE.              243

strength). The boat was recovered with great difficulty, minus

the oars, benches, and floor. Mr. Stephenson was standing on

the weatherside of the saloon. He was pitched off his feet, and

thrown to the lee side, with his head against a lamp fixed by a

gimbal to the waintscoting, breaking the lamp, and the bronze

Igimbal cutting his head severely. He was also bruised by
falling against the front of the sofa.  was in bed, and tried to

get up, but could not keep my feet until the vessel was brought

up to the wind. Mr. Stephenson suffered from the bruises for

a few days, but recovered ere we got through the Caledonian
ICanal, and we were as hearty as crickets.
Iwhat we did.                               have told you

               must now tell you how we lived. There was

a capital library on board, and a gimbal lamp at each bed-head,
and each man before going to bed selected a book. At seven

in the morning a cup of coffee was served in bed to each man,

Who then read or snoozed till nine ; when the decks having been

washed, the brass hand-rails and passages all cleaned, he

dressed and came on deck.

                                                                                                 >

    The good library of the ' Titania ' is a fact worthy of

notice. In years intervening between 1850 and 1859,

Eobert Stephenson, having more leisure, became a more
general reader than he had been. He read books of all

kinds, and on a great variety of subjects --selecting them

himself, and judging of them for himself, without the aid
of critical guidance.

    The parliamentary season of 1858, Eobert Stephenson

passed principally in town--apparently enjoying average

health, but really giving way to confirmed disease. Quite
reconciled to the thought that his life would end in the
course of a few years, he maintained his old cheerfulness
of demeanour in society, and even in solitude he was less
subject to fits of melancholy. But the solemn reflections
induced by his condition were not stifled or avoided.
He began to take his horse exercise in the country, about

                                                                     B2

244  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. IX.

Hampstead and Wormwood Scrubs, instead of the parks,
and occasionally he took solitary drives in his carriage.
After his death, it was found that not seldom these drives

took him to the churchyard in which his wife lay buried.

It was near Mrs. Stephenson's grave that the strong man, as

his strength failed him, could best meditate on the coming

change.
    His mind, however, was still intent on great works.

Though he had withdrawn from the turmoil of his pro
fession, he was inspiring and regulating the labours of

younger or stronger engineers. In Norway, under his
friendly surveillance, Mr. Bidder was finishing the Nor

wegian railway. His counsel aided Mr. Eouse in the
.construction of the Kafir Zeyat viaduct over the Nile.

In Canada, Mr. Eoss was carrying to completion the

 grand viaduct which the inventor of tubular structures
 designed in the outset, and controlled in every perilous
 crisis. And in Sunderland, Mr. Phipps was acting upon
 his instructions for the preservation of the Wear Bridge.
 He was also deeply interested in the construction of

 Brunel's Leviathan Ship.

    His appearances at the Eoyal Society Club, and his
 speech on the Suez Canal in the House of Commons, have
 been already mentioned. He went much into general

  society, and entertained his friends at the customary

 Sunday lunches. It was also the second year of his

 Presidency over the Institution of Civil Engineers, and
 whilst he filled that office he entertained his professional

  comrades at weekly dinners.

     In the autumn he started for Egypt in the 'Titania,'

  accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. Perry, Captain Bedford
  Pim, and Miss Bidder. The ' Titania ' left her moorings

1858.]  ALEXANDRIA.  245

in the Southampton Water at five o'clock A.M., Thursday-
October 14, 1858, and arrived at Gibraltar on the 27th

of the same month. After touching at Malaga, Grenada,
and Algiers, the party went on to Malta. The passage
from Algiers to Malta was made eventful by a sudden
and terrific hurricane, in which the yacht and all on
board were within an ace of being lost. On Tuesday,
November 3, the ' Titania ' anchored opposite the Pasha's
palace at Alexandria. On Friday, the 27th, the travellers
were in Cairo.

   In Egypt, escorting a party of ladies to the antiquities,

Eobert Stephenson was a happy man. He had carefully

read every authority on the history, geography, and
natural features of the country. The explorations of
antiquaries on the banks of the Nile, and disquisitions of
critical scholars upon them, were familiar to him as the
moves of the board to a chess-player, and he spared no
pains in communicating to others the results of his own
careful study. Well qualified to be their instructor, he

exerted himself to give Mrs. Perry, and the other ladies
who took part in the excursions from Alexandria and

Cairo, clear and accurate views on every object presented
to their curiosity.

   Writing to Mr. Thomas Longridge Gooch (then resid

ing at Nice) during this expedition, he said :--

                                                             Alexandria : December 5, 1858.

IDeak Gooch,-- was pleased to receive your note on my
Iarrival, but find my friends have been so kind in -writing that
I Iam overwhelmed at the work have before me in replying to
Ithem.
        must therefore cut you short with a very brief epistle.

Our voyage was, upon the whole, remarkably fine, rather too

much so, as the wind was generally bight, with occasional calms

246      LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                  [Ch. rx.

Iof two or three days' duration. Thus you will' see that our

climate has been very different from yours. Indeed, read the

papers with much surprise, as regards the lowness of the

Itemperature you had experienced at so early a period of the
winter.  heard also that Nice had suffered in a similar way,

Ialthough not of course to the same extent. Constantinople also,
   hear from a gentlemaD just arrived from thence, is really

Imiserable for cold and snow. They have a theory here which
  think is probably correct : viz. -- that, when the north of Europe

suffers from severe weather, the countries adjacent to the tropics

have invariably fine seasons. Last year confirmed the notion,

and this year certainly does the same. We leave to-morrow

for Cairo, whence a portion of our party will most likely go up
Ito Thebes ; but having once been there do not mean to go
Iagain.
         shall stay quietly at Cairo and enjoy daily a drive
Iinto the desert, which have always found most invigorating.
IBy the last post had a message from Brunel, inviting me to

dine with him at Cairo on Christmas-day.

  IThis shall endeavour to do, although at some inconvenience.
IThis circumstance reminds me that must wish you and your

family a merry Christmas and a very happy new year.

         Believe me, yours sincerely,

                                           K. S.

   The climate and life of Egypt suited Eobert Stephenson,
literally ' intoxicating him with delight.'

    The two following letters, one written during his Egyp

tian excursion in 1856, and the other penned at Algiers

in February 1857, are pervaded by a cheerful tone :--

                              IAlexandria : December 22, 1856.

   Dear Clark, --Many thanks for your kind letter, and am

Iglad to hear that my coat was of service to you on your way

home. You need not forward it to Alexandria, as shall in all

likelihood have left before the next post arrives ; but, in case

Iyou have done so, will give instructions to Rouse about it.

  I Ishall not here go into any particulars of our voyage, as

have done so in my letter to Gr. B. S., which must be considered

1857.]           LETTEK FROM EGYPT.                               247

Icommon property at 24.* From it you will perceive that, in
consequence of the Viceroy's absence,   shall probably take
Ia run over to Constantinople, and return to Alexandria, if the

intelligence receive there holds out any prospect of my having
Ian interview with his Highness after his return from Abyssinia --

if he return at all ; for expect, if he persevere, he will be seized

with the fever of the country, and never more be heard of.

  IWith respect to your proposed visit to Malta, can scarcely
Iadvise you to do so with the expectation of meeting me, but

am sure it will do Bidder a world of good. The climate is per
fectly delicious, and if you only come to Malta for a week or

Iten days, it will do you both much good ; and with such a stay

at Malta, it is quite possible may drop in upon you, in which

Icase we could return by yacht to Marseilles.             am quite
   My own health is quite a different thing here.

in good spirits, without an atom of hypochondriac feeling, and
actually recovering my flesh. A happy new year to you all !

                                        Yours sincerely,

                                        Eob. Stephenson.

   In the following year Eobert wrote to the- same
friend :--

                                        Algiers : Feb. 19, 1857.

Dear Clark, -- From Bidder you will learn of my movements

Iup to this place, and my remarks on the present condition

of the capital of Sicily, which believe you saw years ago.

This place presents a very remarkable contrast with Palermo

at the present moment. The population are active and cheerful,

and commerce seems carried on with alacrity and success. The

surrounding country is being rapidly brought into a high state

of cultivation.  Many wealthy French and English farmers

I(that is to say, for farmers) are extending the science of culti

vation very rapidly, and, understand from one of themselves,

with perfect success and ample profit.

The old town of Algiers is of course a complete specimen

of Moorish arrangements for domestic establishments-- narrow

   * At No. 24 Great George Street,  fessional friends-- such as Mr. Bidder,
                                     Mr. Edwin Clark, Mr. Manby, Mr.
not only Robert Stephenson, but      Phipps, &c.-- had their offices.
several of his most valued pro-

248  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                      [Ch. IX.

streets not more than nine or ten feet wide, with the upper

stories of the houses gradually projecting one beyond the other,

so that, to go from the upper rooms of one house into the upper
rooms of the opposite one, it is unnecessary to go downstairs.
The new town, built since the French took possession, may

very fairly be compared to some of the best portions of Paris --

excellent cafes and restaurants, elegant shops with all kinds
of gay merchandise, and all other matters which an advanced
state of civilisation calls for.

   We visited a cafe" chantant last evening, and it was curious
to see how quietly and gracefully the Arab, with his loose flowing
garments, mingled with and adapted himself to the European
people and their customs. The contrast between the two
races in the coffee-room was not more remarkable and interest

ing than the contrast between the old town built by their

Iancestors and the new town now being built by the French --

the one . stolid and sombre, the other excitable and gay.

recollect that the locomotive in Egypt seemed scarcely to excite

an emotion in the Arab when he saw it rapidly moving along

with an enormous load. Such a scene was entirely beyond his
comprehension -- that
                             is,
                                       it

                                                  ;
                             his mental powers were not equal to

reflecting and reasoning upon                        but the moment he heard the

steam whistle, which touched an external sense, he was excited

and confounded. This precisely what we ought to expectis

where the mind has undergone no culture. The cultivated

mind appreciates every new phenomenon with interest and

surprise this a refinement beyond the reason of the savage.
     a

                  ;

                         is
The latter would see the crab creep out of his shell almost

as matter of course, but such an event excites wonder and

confounds the philosopher for a time, till reflection and com

parison with parallel phenomena convert the event of the crab

creeping out of its shell into another link in his chain of

reasoning. . . .

                                                     Yours sincerely,
                                                            Eob. Stephenson.

   The arrival of Mr. and Mrs. Brunel at Cairo, on
December 20, 1858, gave Eobert Stephenson great satis
faction. Although he was greatly out of health, Brunel

1859.]  RETURN TO ENGLAND.  249

was in good spirits, and, in the excitement of holiday-
making, was ready to take an imprudent amount of
exercise. When he became fatigued with walking, he
mounted a donkey and rode about the streets of Cairo, to

all appearance as free from care as a schoolboy. Eobert
had taken up his quarters at Shepherd's Hotel ; Brunel

stayed at the Hotel d'Orient. At Shepherd's also were
Lord and Lady Dufferin. Lady Dufferin pressed

Eobert Stephenson and his friends to dine with her on
Christmas-day; but the prior engagement with Mr. and
Mrs. Brunel precluded them from accepting the invita

tion.

    On December 25, 1858, Eobert Stephenson and

Isambard Kingdom Brunel--the two greatest engineers
of the nineteenth century --dined together, in company

with a few mutual friends, at the Hotel d'Orient, Cairo.

    On his return from Egypt, Eobert Stephenson stopped
for a few weeks m Paris, returning to London on or about
February 9, 1859. The change, had greatly benefited
 him. The deep-seated mischief in liver, stomach, and
 nerves, of course remained untouched, but its most dis

 tressing symptoms were less apparent. He was cheerful,
 and enjoyed an unaccustomed sense of vigour. With
 characteristic ardour, he 'returned to the pleasures of
 English society and the duties of his position. The St.
 Lawrence and the Sunderland Bridges, and the Norwegian
 Eailway (soon to be completed), the state of the Serpen
 tine, and the Metropolitan Drainage were amongst the
 objects of his care. He was regular in his attendance in
 the House. His drives in the country were frequently

 repeated. In Gloucester Square he was as hospitable

 an entertainer as in former seasons.

250  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.          [Ch. IX.

    He became very much interested in the proposition for
an Atlantic Telegraph. From the day when the first
telegraph was put down on his line between Euston Square
and Camden Town, he had been a zealous promoter of
telegraphic communication ; and now, in the last year of
his life, he consented to act in a commission * (composed
of himself, Captain Douglas Galton, E.E., and Professor
Wheatstone) appointed by the Lords of the Committee
of the Privy Council for Trade, and the Atlantic Telegraph
Company, ' To inquire into the Construction of Submarine
Telegraph Cables.' The first meetings of the committee
took place at his private residence. He was also chair
man of the Electric Telegraph Company ; and to his
wise provision of a sinking fund to meet the expense of
renewals, the prosperity of the company is mainly due.

    Note-books and letters of chat show that he was con

tinually in society. After dinners about town, he several
times called on Dr. Percy, at Craven Hill, Bayswater,

and smoked a cigar.

   On April 11th he attended the meeting of the Geo
graphical Society, where Captain Pim read a paper on

the Suez Canal question.
    The next day, Mr. Joseph Bonomi read a paper ' On

the Means suggested by Eobert Stephenson, Esq., M.Pj,
for the Extraction of a ponderous Granite Sarcophagus

    * After Robert Stephenson's death,   His philosophical mind, his high
other gentlemen were introduced into     scientific attainments, and his great
the committee. The report of the         practical knowledge, peculiarly fitted
committee, when presented, con           him for directing an enquiry such
tained the following words :-- ' In the  as this, in which mechanical, che
                                         mical, and electrical science are com
first place, however, we must express    bined ; it was a subject, moreover,
to your Lordships how great was the      to which he had given considerable
loss we experienced, soon after the      attention, and in which he took the
commencement of this enquiry, by
the death of Mr. Robert Stephenson.      greatest interest.'

1859.] LAST DINNER AT THE ROYAL SOCIETY CLUB. 251

out of the Limestone Cavity in which it had been placed

by the Ancient Egyptians.' In the subsequent discussion,
Eobert Stephenson, Mr. Sopwith, Mr. Perry, Mr. Jennings,

Mr. Sharpe, and others, took part. Mr. William F.
Ainsworth (Honorary Secretary of the Syro-Egyptian

Society) recalls how all the members on this occasion
were struck by the modesty of Eobert Stephenson's lan

guage and tone.

On June 4th he was present at the annual inspection of

the Eoyal Observatory at Greenwich, and at the subse

quent dinner at the Ship Hotel. But as the season wore

on, it became manifest that his health was in a more

precarious condition than it had ever been. With total

loss of appetite, and powers so deranged that the palate

could no longer distinguish flavours, with constant lassitude
and overwhelming weight of depression, the sick man

struggled on bravely.                   "

On  June  17th   Dr.   Percy called        upon  him in Glou

cester Square, and found him, at half-past eleven a.m.,

eating a few strawberries. On this occasion he spoke

more fully than he was wont of his wretched condition,

but looked forward hopefully to the time when he could

get away from town, and once again enjoy the sea-air.

But he did not permit his sufferings to depress him in

society. A passage in the records of the Eoyal Society

Club * gives the reader a glimpse of him in these last

days : --

   Among the more recent dinner-parties, that of August 11,
1859, may be noted, a curious incident in its components
having given, as will be presently seen, an unusual prepon-

   * ' Sketch of the Rise and Progress of the Royal Society Club.' Printed
for private circulation.

252  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Oh. IX

derance to the delegates of practical knowledge; while the
various walks of general and abstract science were also ably

represented on the occasion
   Among the visitors on that day was Mr. Thomas Maclear

(now Sir Thomas), the Astronomer Royal at the Cape of Good
Hope, who had just arrived in England from the southern
hemisphere after an absence of a quarter of a century, during

....which period, besides assiduous attention to his regular observa-

torial duties, he had measured an important degree of the
meridian in Caffraria.

   This was the last time that Mr. Stephenson, tbe celebrated
civil engineer, attended the Club. He was not looking well,
nor was he animated with his usual flow of cheerfulness ; and he

left the room early in order to take his seat at a debate in the

House of Commons on cleansing the Serpentine. It was re

marked that on this day were present, so to speak, the repre
sentatives of the three great applications by which the present

age is distinguished --namely, of Eailways, Mr. Stephenson ;
of the Electric Telegraph, Mr. Wheatstone; and of the Penny
Post, Mr. Eowland Hill--an assembly never again to occur.

   Before the next celebration of the anniversary of the
Eoyal Society Club (July 5, 1860), death had been
busy with its members. Dr. Percy had to announce the
deaths of Eobert Stephenson, General Leake, Eev. Baden

Powell, and Eobert Edwards Broughton.

   It would have been strange had Eobert Stephenson

manifested ' his usual flow of cheerfulness.' As he sat at

that dinner, the gloom of fast-approaching death over
shadowed him. For weeks he had been getting worse
in health, and he was convinced that before many more
weeks had passed he would be in his grave.

    The Club dinner was on August 11. On the morning
of the 15th of the same month he embarked in the
' Titania ' for Norway, in order to be present at a banquet
to be given him at Christiania on the opening of the Nor

1859.]  REVISION OF fflS WILL.  253

  wegian Eailway, and in the hope that change and sea-air
   might afford him relief.

      But, before leaving his native land, he finally revised
  his will. "When it came to be proved, the personalty
   was sworn under £400,000. The executors appointed
  under the will were Mr. Charles Parker (the testator's
   solicitor), Mr. George Eobert Stephenson, C.E., and Mr.
   George Parker Bidder, C.E. To his cousin, the above-
   mentioned Mr. George Eobert Stephenson, the testator be
   queathed all his interest in the locomotive steam factory
   at Newcastle, and his interest in the Snibstone collieries

   in Leicestershire, left him by his father ; he also be
   queathed to his cousin his leasehold house in Gloucester
   Square, with its furniture, pictures, statuary, plate, library,
   wine, and other effects, as well as half the furniture and

   effects in the office in Great George Street, and a legacy
   of £50,000. To Mr. George P. Bidder he left the other
" half of the office furniture and effects, and £10,000, a

   like sum being bequeathed to Mr. Charles Parker. The
   testator left also to his cousins, Eobert and James Stephen

   son, £5,000 each ; to ten female cousins, on his father's

   side, £1,000 each ; to Mr. W. Weallens (his partner in
   the Newcastle Factory), Mr. G, H. Phipps, Mr. Edwin
   Clark, Mr. T. E. Harrison, Mr. W. H. Budden, Mr. P. H.

   Stanton, Mr. James Berkeley, Mr. George Berkeley, and
   Mr. W. Kell, £2,000 each ; to Mr. James Green and Mr.

    Stockman, £1,000 each ; to Mr. George Vaughan, £5,000 ;
   to Miss Emily Lister, £4,000 ; to each of that lady's two
    sisters, £1,500 ; for the support of the children of the late
   Mr. Starbuck, £5,500 ; to Margaret Tomlinson, his house
   keeper, £100 per annum for life ; to each of his other
    servants who had been with him a twelvemonth at the time

254  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. LX.

 of his death, £20 ; to the Newcastle Infirmary, £10,000 ;

 to the Newcastle Literary and Philosophical Institution,
 £7,000 ; to the North of England Mining Institution,
 £2,000; to the Institution of Civil Engineers, £2,000; to
 the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge, £2,000 ;
 and to the Society for Providing Additional Curates in
 Populous Places, £2,000. The residue of his estate the

 testator left to his three executors, share and share alike.

    Accompanied by a rather numerous party of friends,
 Eobert Stephenson went down to Harwich, off which port
 the ' Titania ' and Mr. Bidder's yacht the ' Mayfly ' were
lying. Mr. and Mrs. Bidder, Mr. James Harby, jun., and
 Mr. and Mrs. Perry went on board the ' Mayfly.' Eobert
Stephenson had for companions in the ' Titania,' Mr.

T. L. Gooch, Mr. James Berkeley, Mr. Phipps, and Mr.

Haly. Between four and five o'clock a.m. on the 16th
the yachts got out to sea, entering the Christiania fjord

at 6 a.m. on Sunday, the 21st.
    Landing at Christiania, Eobert Stephenson was well

enough to enjoy a trip along the line from Christiania to
the pother terminus, Eidswold. The party visited two .
farms belonging to Mr. Bidder, in the vicinity of the line ;

and on September 2 they returned to Christiania, taking
up their comfortable quarters on board the yachts.

    The next day (September 3) a grand dinner was given to
Eobert Stephenson. The desire to do him honour may
be estimated in some degree by the fact that one hundred

and thirty persons were present at the entertainment,

who paid two guineas each for their tickets --a sum of

no trifling importance in Christiania.
   The toast of the evening was introduced with a speech

concluding thus :--

1859.]         LAST PUBLIC SPEECH.                      255

It is sufficient to call to mind how highly our country and

our city, which are so greatly interested in this railway, are
indebted to Mr. Robert Stephenson. On behalf of our country,

our King has already made him deserved acknowledgment.
The Olaff Cross on his breast is the witness thereof. But we--
the inhabitants of Christiania--what can we do ? Little, very

little, where     the question  concerns a man so      significantly
honoured in    his own country                          over whose
                                --that mighty empire,

dominions the sun never sets ! Can we add a fresh laurel to

the wreath of honour that already crowns him ? We can only            .
offer him our modest ' forget me not,' and beg him for our

own sake to keep it amongst those many and dear tokens of re

membrance which his active life has procured him.

   Therefore we have met to-day --men of Christiania, of all
classes --not to try to honour Mr. Robert Stephenson, but to do

honour to ourselves, by showing that we can esteem and grate

fully acknowledge high merit.

   Mr. Robert Stephenson, we offer you our .most hearty thanks
for your active zeal and disinterested service in a cause im

portant to our country in general and our city in particular. We

wish you health and happiness, and peace in your life's evening,

which --and may the Almighty hear our prayers !--we trust
may be bright and gentle --bright as the evening sun resting

on snow-clad mountains, gentle as a quiet summer evening in

our peaceful valleys.

  It may perhaps be the last time you visit our country and

its capital. We do not beg you to preserve in your mind our

country, with its great mountains, clear lakes, and sunny vales.

Nature herself has put so peculiar a stamp on our fatherland,

and adorned it with such rich and lovely colours, that no one

can see it and easily forget it. You, Mr. Stephenson, with a
mind and heart open to nature's beauties, will be the very last

        it,
               a

                                              is,
to forget struck as you were by the first sight of it.

What we will only beg of you that, when you have returned

to your active life in your own mighty country, you will allow

your thoughts to take flight to the capital of Norway and to

its grateful inhabitants.

   Eobert Stephenson had intended entertaining the as
sembly with sketch of the rise and progress of railway

2Q6          LITE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                 [Ch. IX.

enterprise --feeling that, though the majority of his

audience would not understand the English tongue, they
would appreciate his remarks when they read them on
the following morning translated in their journals. On
taking his seat, he was so comparatively easy and free
from pain, that he thought he should be able to carry
out his intention. But, just before he was required to
rise, an attack of nausea and faintness rendered him

powerless to do more than give utterance to the follow
ing remarks, which are of interest as being his 'last

public speech :' --

IGentlemen : Although was not able to understand the last
Ispeech, yet heard my own name mentioned so repeatedly,
I Ithat
       know it was addressed to me.  have also had the
Ihonour to receive here a translation of its contents.
                                                        see from
Iit that far greater merits are attributed to me than should
dare to attribute to myself. It is unnecessary to recapitulate

the advantages of a railway to a country in advancing com

merce and stimulating industry; they are truths everywhere

acknowledged and well understood. But there are a few points
Iin the last speech to which will take the liberty of calling your
Iattention.
             find that the honour of the railway is altogether

ascribed to me. This is not just. At the same time that you

             is

                    I it,
have yourselves to thank for there are also two other men to

whom the honour to be ascribed quite as much as to me, and

indeed more than to me.      name first Mr. Consul-General

Crowe, who, attentive to the capabilities of your country, con

ceived the idea, and gave the first impulse to the undertaking   ;

and next Mr. Bidder, who has the undivided merit of carrying

out the idea. He has the honour of having built the railway

for an extremely low cost he has built for the sum of £450,000,
             is ;            it

                                I
                                                    is
which  is  less than, under the circumstances, could have been

hoped or expected. It thus to Mr. Bidder that the chief

honour belongs for establishing this railway, which now com

pleted with English skill, aided by no inconsiderable Norwegianis

capital and liberality. It quite true, as read in the trans

1850.]             LAST PUBLIC SPEECH.    '257

Ilation before me, that have been occupied with great works
Iin other places.  have been employed in Canada, in Egypt,
Iin Belgium, in Eussia, and may say in nearly every country
Iin Europe. But if could ascribe to myself the whole merit
Ihere among you, should act unjustly towards the two gentlemen
I have already named, Mr. Bidder and Mr. Crowe, to whom so
much is owing -- to whom more is due than to me. But let

me express my sincere gratitude for the present festival by

I Iwhich am so much honoured. It is probably the last time
Ishall meet the citizens of Christiania.
                                          shall leave your
Icountry on Monday. But cannot leave you without express
ing my best wishes for this town, my most cordial wishes for

Christiania, which has contributed so much to the existence of

this railway, and to whose prosperity and happiness this railway
Iwill contribute so much.
                           should wish once to come back
Ihere to see the results -- the advantages on which now con

gratulate the town. Prosperity and happiness to Christiania !

   Thus modestly did Eobert Stephenson, in his last public

speech, direct to others the eulogies showered upon himself.

Throughout his career --from the day, when as a stripling

he directed the Colombian mines, to that occasion of

sad festivity at Christiania --was he thus cautious not to

appropriate to himself the honour due to his companions.

VOL. II.                   s

258  LITE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. X.

                           CHAPTEE X.

                                          LAST SCENES.

    Homeward Course of the 'Titania' and the 'Mayfly' --Rohert
    Stephenson lands at Lowestoft --Arrives at Gloucester Square
    again -- Temporary Rally -- Death -- Public Agitation --The Queen's
    Expression of Sympathy -- Funeral Procession-- Interment in West
    minster Abbey -- Attendance at the Ceremony-- Sacred Service at
     Newcastle --Public Mourning at various important Towns -- Plate
    on Coffin-lid -- Inscription on Monumental Brass--The Article in the
     ' Times ' on the Morning after the Funeral -- Generous Tone of the
     Tress --Last Honours.

                                                   (.Stat. 55.)

THE next morning (Sunday) he was decidedly worse, and

       by night it was felt that, unless he made good speed
to England, he would most probably die away from his
native country. Early on Monday morning (September 5)
the yachts dropped down the Christiania fiord. When they
were just off Drobak --from which place the London

market obtains the ice sold as ' Wenham Lake Ice '--

he became much worse, and there were good grounds

for fear that ha would not reach the British coast
alive. While the passengers on board the ' Mayfly ' were
at breakfast, Mr. Gooch came alongside in one of the
' Titania's ' boats, begging Mr. Perry (who was a member
of the medical profession, though he had relinquished
practice) to pay ' the chief ' a visit. The wind was up,
and momentarily blowing stronger, and the yachts were
fast approaching the open sea, when, in case of rougher

1859.]  THE RETURN TO GLOUCESTER SQUARE.  259
                                                 «

weather, it would be impossible to send messengers from
one vessel to the other. It was therefore decided that
Mr. Gooch should take back with him to the ' Titania '

Mr. and Mrs. Perry, and replace them without delay by
Mr. Phipps and Mr. Haly. This shifting of passengers
would give the invalid the benefit of medical attendance.

    Two hours later, and the change could not have been

effected. Heavy weather ensued, and the homeward

passage was rude and perilous enough to try the endur
ance and 'fortitude of trained sailors. Jaundice, in a

most aggravated form, had supervened upon other mis
chief, and the dying ' chief ' passed days and nights in

extreme danger. To make matters even more dismal,
the ' Titania ' was denied the companionship of the

' Mayfly.' In the darkness the two yachts missed

each other. The ' Titania ' being by far the slower
craft, her captain, judging that the ' Mayfly ' had un

awares gone much ahead of her, deemed it best to.

make all possible way, in the hope of overtaking her.

On the other hand, the 'Mayfly,' knowing her own

superior powers, slackened pace so that she might be

overtaken, when, in reality, instead of having outstripped
the ' Titania,' she was far behind her. The consequence

was, that the vessels did not again speak with each other

until the close of the passage.
   On the 13th the 'Titania' neared the Suffolk coast,

and after beating about for several hours in dark
ness, she found the ' Mayfly ' close beside her, waiting
to enter Lowestoft port. As no arrangement had been

made for the two parties to meet at that point, the

occurrence was an agreeable surprise to both. A pilot

having been obtained, the yachts entered the fine harbour

        s2

260  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. X.

of Lowestoft at early dawn. The sight of ' the old
Gountry ' did the sick man good. He was well enough
to walk on shore from his yacht to the railway station,

where he had to wait a short time for a train. It was sug

gested that he should be carried, but he insisted on walk

ing--and he walked, leaning on the arms of two friends.

    To convey him from the coast to London was the
work of a short time. The sight of home appeared
to restore him, after the fatigue and suffering of the
preceding days. No time was lost in sending a messenger
for Dr. Frederick Bird, who with Dr. Baly remained in
constant attendance until the end.

   From the day of reaching Gloucester Square till the

following Sunday he seemed to improve. Certainly he
gained strength. On Sunday afternoon, without medical
permission, he astonished the members of his household
by appearing in the drawing-room, and declaring that
he had grown tired of his bedroom, and was resolved
no longer to be treated as a sick man. But the exertion
and the excitement of conversation were too much for

him, and he was carried, rather than led, back to the

apartment in which he died.
    The next morning he was much worse ; obstinate con

gestion of the liver was followed by dropsy of the whole
system, and it was seen by his physicians that the close
was not far distant. Aware of his position, he manifested
a serenity that would have been perfect, had it not
been occasionally broken by anxiety for Mrs. Bidder and
the other affectionate friends who watched him day and
night. For death he had no fear. Indeed, as a place
of rest the grave he had long been prepared for.

    Whilst death stood over him, the concern of the public

1859.]                  PUBLIC SORROW.                                    261

mind was deep and universal. A continual stream of

callers enquired at the door, and intelligence of his state

was daily sent by rail or telegraph, to the chief centres of

British industry.

   At mid-day (shortly before the clocks marked the hour

of twelve), on October 12, 1859, Eobert Stephenson

breathed his last.

     As soon as it was learnt that he was no more, there

was an universal exclamation of regret. Although his

celebrity had made him a familiar name in every civil

ised community, he was, in the ordinary sense of the

term, ' a private person.' It was only occasionally that

he had acted as the commissioned servant of the entire

nation. Never before had the death of a private person
struck so deeply the feelings of his country. Coming
so soon after that of the younger Brunel, his irreparable
loss left a blank which no one living engineer could be

expected to fill.

     The regret was uniform throughout all ranks. Neither

party nor clique contradicted the one prevailing sentiment.

The man who in his life had been incapable of jealousy

or meanness, was followed to the grave by men of every

shade of opinion.

Not five days after his death, the following letter

was penned by the Viceroy of Egypt, who, ignorant that
                                                                       '
the  final  blow   had  fallen, was  anxious  to
                                                  express his

sympathy with the affliction of a much-valued friend.

   Mon chek Monsieuk Stephenson, --Je viens d'apprendre de
M. Hugh Thurburn que, depuis quelque temps, votre sante
avait 6te alteree, et je ne veux pas laisser partir ce courrier sans

vous dire combienj'ai 6te affecte de cette facheuse nouvelle.
J'aime a croire que, loin de considerer ma demarche comme

202  LIFE OF KOBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. X.

un acte de simple politesse, vous voudrez bien y reconnaitre
une preuve de l'attachement que je vous porte et de l'estime par-
ticuliere que j'ai toujours professee pour l'honorabilite de votre
caractere et pour votre haute capacite. J'espere aussi que
vous serez assez bon pour m'honorer d'un mot de reponse

aussitot que l'amelioration de votre sante vous le permettra.
    Agreez, mon cher Monsieur Stephenson, les vceux sinceres

que je forme pour la conservation de vos jours, qui ne sont
pas moins precieux pour notre pays que pour le votre, et recevez

l'assurance de mes sentiments les plus affectueux.

                                 MonAMMED Said.

     Caire, lo 17 octobro 1859.

   In London and in the North of England the emotion
was more personal than elsewhere. In the metropolis, as
an eminently popular member of Parliament, as Commis
sioner on the Health of Towns, a Commissioner for the

great Exhibition, the consulting engineer of several
railway companies and commercial associations, and an
active member of learned societies, he necessarily left
behind him a larger number of personal acquaintances
than are claimed by most men of active habits. And to
have talked with Eobert Stephenson once was to feel a
cordial affection for him ever afterwards. But even in places
which he had never visited, and by men whom he had
 never seen, he was mourned for, as a great friend snatched

 away, rather than as a great man summoned to eternity.
 Strangers had looked upon him in his works, and had
 surveyed his career again and again in that powerful

 biography which has made George Stephenson loved by
 thousands who will never have an opportunity of ex

 amining the monuments of his industry.
    To the enquiry where Eobert Stephenson should be buried,

 there was only one answer. Without adissentient voice, pub

1859.]                FUNERAL.                     263

lie opinion demanded the last and highest honour accorded

to great Englishmen-- sepulture in Westminster Abbey.

As its cost was not met by the public purse, his funeral

may in one sense be regarded as having -been private, but
in all other respects it was a national solemnity. The

authorities having appointed a place for the interment,

near his precursor Telford, application was made by Mr.

Manby, F.E.S., Honorary Secretary of the Institution of

Civil Engineers, to the Duke of Cambridge, to permit the
cortege to pass through Hyde Park on its way to the

Abbey. Without an hour's delay the Duke hastened to

consult the Queen on the subject ; and the request was

by Her Majesty made an occasion for expressing her sense

of the loss which her nation had sustained in the following

g^raceful letter :-- .
                                                                               Horse Guards : October 20, 1869.

Sib,--Before sanctioning your proposal that the Funeral

Procession of the late Mr. Stephenson should be allowed to pass
through Hyde Park on its way to Westminster Abbey, His
Eotal Highness deemed it expedient to take Her Majesty's

pleasure on so unusual an application, and for which no pre

cedent exists. Her Majesty considers that as the late Mr.

Stephenson is to be buried in Westminster Abbey, in acknow

ledgment of the high position he occupied, and the world-wide

reputation he had won for himself as an Engineer, his funeral,

though strictly speaking private, as being conducted by his

friends, partakes of the character of a public ceremony ; and

being anxious, moreover, to show that she fully shares with the

public in lamenting the loss which the country has sustained
by his death -- she cannot hesitate for a moment in giving her
entire sanction to the course which His Eoyal Highness the

IEanger recommends.   have the honour to be, Sir,

                      Your obedient servant,
                                J. Macdonald.
                      (Signed)
Charles Manby, Esq.
             &c. &c.

264  LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.  [Ch. X.

   On Friday October 21, the body was conveyed to the

tomb. Shortly before 11 o'clock, a.m. the procession,

consisting of the hearse drawn by six horses, mourning

carriages drawn by four horses each, and a long line of

private carriages, formed in Gloucester Square, and wended
its way slowly in the direction of the Abbey.

   Entering Hyde Park at the Victoria Gate, the cortege

moved past the Serpentine to Apsley House, down

Grosvenor Place, and along Victoria Street, ultimately
pausing in the Cloisters of the Abbey. Throughout the

route dense throngs paid, by their quiet demeanour, a

genuine tribute of respect to the dead.

    The great west door receives the mortal remains only

of monarchs and nobles. Borne into the Abbey by a side
door, the body of the untitled engineer was received by the
dean and clergy, attended by the choir. The pall was
borne by the Marquis of Chandos, Mr. G. C. Glyn, M.P.,
Mr. Joseph Locke, M.P., Sir Eoderick Murchison, Mr.
Samuel Beale, M.P., and Mr. John Chapman.

    On the procession approaching the Abbey, the council

Jand officers of the Institution of Civil Engineers advanced

in order from the erusalem Chamber, where they had

assembled, and took rank with the mourners. In the
cloisters also, ready to join in the line, were deputations
from the Grand Trunk Canada Eailway, the Electric

Telegraph Company (of which the deceased was chairman
at the time of his death), the Victoria Dock Company, the
Eoyal Society, the Eoyal Geographical Society, the Geo
logical Society, the Society of Arts, the Meteorological
Society, the Astronomical Society, the Birmingham Insti
tution of Mechanical Engineers, and the directors and
officers of many railway companies.

1859.]  FUNERAL.  265

    So great was the anxiety of the public to obtain

admittance to the Abbey, that the approaches were
thronged from an early hour by persons seeking entrance.
More than two thousand tickets of invitation were issued,

and it was computed that at least three thousand persons

were present. In that vast assemblage were the best and
wisest of the land. Nor was long time to elapse before

three of the distinguished crowd followed their friend to
the unseen world. Since that day, Joseph Locke, Pro
fessor Baden Powell, and Professor Eaton Hodgkinson
have been taken from the pursuits by which they con
ferred enduring benefit on their fellow-men. .

    On the day of the funeral, the shipping on the river

carried their flags half-mast high. At Newcastle, Gateshead,

North Shields, Tynemouth, and Sunderland, merchants'

offices, banks, and shops were closed at. noon, the shipping
on the Wear and Tyne paying the deceased the same

honour as the fleets upon the Thames. At Whitby the

mourning was universal. Other towns showed no less
respect to the dead. And at Newcastle, the workmen
from the factory of Eobert Stephenson and Co., more
than fifteen hundred strong, marched to St. Nicholas'
Church, and attended divine service.

   This strong mark of respect was paid by the men
spontaneously, and so much pleasure did their conduct
give to Mr. George Eobert Stephenson, that two months
later he wrote the following letter to Mr. William Pearson,
Treasurer of the Workmen's Sick Fund at Messrs. Eobert

Stephenson & Co.'s Engine Manufactory, Newcastle.

                                                                24 Great George Street, London :
                                                                                              Dec. 16, 1859.

  IDear Sir,-- am desirous to express my sense of the admir

able way in which the workmen showed their respect and

26(5   LIFE OF ROBERT STEPHENSON.                       [Ch. X.

Iaffection for my late cousin Mr. Robert Stephenson, on the day

of his funeral. When first heard of their request, that there

should be a special service in St. Nicholas' Church, at the

hour of his interment in Westminster Abbey, and of their

Iwish to attend in a body, for the purpose of paying the last

tribute to his memory, felt that such an act, besides being

most gratifying to myself, and the other friends of the deceased,

Ialso reflected the highest credit on the men themselves, and
demanded from me a marked acknowledgment.               therefore

propose to contribute to the Workmen's Sick Fund the sum of

£500, with the understanding that this amount shall be under

Ithe control of trustees, to be invested for the benefit of the
fund.  shall feel obliged by your communicating this to the

men, with my personal thanks for their conduct on the melan

Icholy occasion referred to.
                                     remain, dear Sir,

       Yours faithfully,
              George Robert Stephenson.

   Another expression of regret for the great commander

of workmen deserves record. On the day preceding the
funeral, an urgent application for a card of admission to

the Abbey during the ceremony, was made to Mr. Charles
Manby. The applicant was Henry Weatherburn, a
workman employed on the South-Eastern Eailway, who
based his request on the fact that, many years before, he

drove the first locomotive engine, called the 'Harvey
Coombe,' that was used in the construction of the

London and Birmingham Eailway. It is needless to say

that the merit of the claim was recognised.
    Eobert Stephenson's grave in Westminster Abbey occu

pies a spot nearly in the centre of the nave, near the grave
of Bell, the founder of the Madras system of teaching,
Telford the engineer, and John Hunter the physiologist.

1859.]  LAST HONOURS.                                  267

The plate on his coffin-lid bears this inscription --

        Robert Stephenson, Esq. Civil Engineer,
                        D.C.L. and F.E.S.

          Born November 16, 1803.
        · Died October 12, 1859.

   The monumental brass which has recently been placed

over the site of his tomb is surrounded by this legend :--

   Sacred to the memory of Robert Stephenson, M.P., D.C.L., F.E.S.,
&c., late President of the Institution of Civil Engineers, who Died
Oct. 12, a.d. 1859, aged 56 years.

   A memorial window in honour of the Engineer has

recently been placed in the Abbey by his executors, and
a bronze statue, by Baron Marochetti, will be erected in
the vicinity of Great George Street ; that street which, by
future generations, will be associated with the name of--
Eobeet Stephenson.


               APPENDIX.

                I. THE CONTROVERSY OP THE GAUGES.

In order to carry out their undertakings on the Oxford and
Eugby line, in accordance with the privileges preserved to them
by section (5) of the Gauge Act, the Great Western Eailway
Company asked their engineer, Brunel, to deliberate on the
subject, and furnish them with a Eeport thereon. In com
pliance with this order, Brunel, at the commencement of the
year 1847, sent in the following statement of his views to the

Company.

                                                           18 Great Duke Street, Westminster :
                                                                          January 16, 1847.

  IGentlemen,-- have deferred reporting to you upon the mode
Iin which should recommend to introduce the Narrow Gauge

upon the Oxford and Bugby Eailway, because, as the time was

Inot yet arrived for laying the rails, it was not absolutely neces

sary; and as whatever mode might recommend would, as
matter of course, become the subject of criticism by those who

Iresist the mixture of gauges, as affecting the question of the use

of the Broad Gauge, did not wish atf an earlier period than
necessary to give this new occasion for introducing into any
question that might come under discussion, either before the
public or before Parliament, any part of the old and vexatious
questions of Gauge. As, however, it is desired by the Board of

ITrade that some particular plan should now be determined

upon, beg to say that, my present intention is to recommend

on the Rugby Line, a single additional rail to each line of
rails, and that the outer rail of each railway should be

270 ArrEXDix.

common to the two gauges, in the manner shown in the accom

panying plan.

   This is the simplest mode of uniting the gauges, and, if it

be so desired, admits without any application whatever, of the

running of all the trains of both gauges into the same sidings,

and up to the same passenger platforms, and, if the switches be
coupled or connected, exactly as if no diversity of gauge
existed. This will be apparent by the accompanying plan

(No. 1), while, at the same time, an advantage may actually be
derived from the Double Gauge, which may be made the means

of keeping two classes of traffic totally distinct, if such be

desired, without the possibility of the trains belonging to the

one running into the sidings used by the other when one train

has to pass the other, an arrangement which would be particu

larly applicable to the Rugby Line,
        is                                                 as has been assumed by
                            2,
                                  a

                              it if,
the advocates for laying the Narrow Gauge on this line, large
                                                           ;
through coal trade to come upon from the Northern Gauge
                                                               a
Lines.

Thus, as shown on plan No.     siding into which the Narrow

Gauge trains would run, and the switch for which could not

effect the Broad Gauge trains, which could therefore run past

at full speed, without having any switches to attend to and the
Narrow Gauge lines might be carried in like manner past any
siding intended solely for the quick Broad Gauge trains, as

shown in the same figure.

   Crossings from one line to the other are, at least on the
Great Western lines, of rare occurrence, and but little used
                                                                  ;

and on the Great Western Railway they are always kept locked,
and used only in case of accident on the stoppage of one line.

They are upon all railways placed leading backwards, so that

they cannot, even if the switches be wrong, affect the running
trains, and are only used at very low speeds. If, therefore,

there were any such complication as has been, alleged, would
                                                           it

be quite unimportant; but the plans show that they may

be perfectly simple, and as easily worked, when they may
occasionally be required, as with the Single Gauge. By

this arrangement, there    only one switch and point on each
                           is
                                        is

                                                        <
main line, but even that, as has been stated, being placed in

the direction of, and not meeting, the running train, may be

disregarded. The other switch                            not on the main line, and

          THE BEOAD AND NARROW GAUGES.  271

moreover, would be self-acting, and being moved by an opposite
check rail, would open and shut of itself, according to the
gauge of the wheels running past it. Such a crossing, there

fore, would be as nearly as possible as simple in respect of each

gauge, as an ordinary crossing.

   In the plan is shown a crossing, such as we prefer them on the

Great Western Kailway, combined with the siding or lay-by.
As it is seldom that the emergency arises from using a crossing,

without at the same time rendering a siding a useful aid in this

arrangement, the crossing may be made either common to the
two, or the advantage of separating two classes of traffic may

be attained, as before, by working the traffic on different

gauges, and keeping the crossings as well as the sidings

Idistinct.
   Although have recommended as a general principle, on the
Eugby Line, the adoption of a third rail only, the making the

Iouter rail the one common to the two, yet there may be parts

of the line where should prefer two additional rails, making

a distinct Narrow Gauge with the wide, as shown in Fig. 6.
   With respect to the mode of laying the rails, either longi

tudinal timbers, as on the Great Western Eailway or transverse

sleepers, as on the London and Birmingham Eailway, may be

used. In either case, the mode of laying is not affected by

this circumstance of the additional rails or rail. Either three

or four longitudinal timbers, each with its rail, may be framed

together, just as two are now, and as three or four, or even
more now are at crossings or in stations ; or three or four chairs

Imay be bolted on one sleeper. It is in this latter mode that

have arranged with Mr. Barlow, the engineer of the Midland
Railway Company, to lay the Mixed Gauge, which was originally
provided for by Parliament between Cheltenham and Gloucester ;

Ibut where should be uninfluenced by the desire to meet the
Iview of others, should give the preference to longitudinal

timbers.  I am, Gentlemen,

                Your obedient servant,

                                    I. K. BltUNEL.

       To the Directors of the
Great Western Railway Company.

272 APPENDIX.

    Such were Brunel's opinions on diverse gauges, when the
enquiry was shifted from their relative advantages and disad

vantages, to the best method of combining. It is to be remarked

with what characteristic lightness the undaunted and brilliant
eDgineer passes over difficulties, and brings out what he con
ceives to be the necessary points of the case.

    Stephenson took a very different view of the same subject.
At the request of the Secretary for the London and North
Western Railway Company, he took pen in hand, and laid
before the Directors of that Company and the public, the
following criticism on his distinguished rival's Report.

                                                        24 Great George Street, Westminster :

                                                         July 7, 1847.

  IDear Sin,--In compliance with the request contained in your

letter of the 17th April, have considered the Report of
Mr. Brunel to the Directors of the Great Western Railway
Company, which has been submitted to the Commissioners of
Railways, in explanation of the mode in which it is proposed to
carry into effect their order, that the Narrow Gauge (as well as
the Broad) shall be laid down on the Oxford and Rugby Rail
way, and also between Worcester and Wolverhampton, on the
Oxford, Worcester, and Wolverhampton Railway.

   From this Report, it appears that Mr. Brunel proposes, --
   First. Generally to lay the railways in question with one

additional rail for the Narrow Gauge, this being the simplest
plan ; but, wherever it may be more advantageous, to lay two
additional rails. "

   It appears that Mr. Brunel prefers to adhere to the longi

tudinal sleepers used on the Great Western line, having varied
from that system between Cheltenham and Gloucester, rather in
deference to the views of others, than in accordance with his
own views.

    Second. Mr. Brunel proposes, either to mix the sidings and

crossings for the two gauges, or to keep them separate. It is

not stated which of the plans is preferred ; but the feasibility of

either or both, where desirable, is affirmed.

   It is difficult to reply to this Report in its present form ; for

though, under the first heading, the main difficulties as regards
the laying of the rails are touched upon, they are not solved,

          THE BROAD AND NARROW GAUGES.                 273

and the diagrams do not exhibit clearly the complications

which arise from the introduction of the second gauge, being

merely rough sketches, and not scale representations of crossings,
&c, as actually laid in practice ; and under the second heading,

no attempt is made to explain the mode proposed for carrying

Ion the traffic at the stations.
       have accordingly prepared more detailed developments of
the diagrams * accompanying Mr. Brunel's Report, in order to

show the extent to which the rails are actually affected by the
Iintersections which he exhibits by mere cross lines.
                                                       have

also added plans of approved stations actually executed by
Mr. Brunel and myself, composed of various parts, such as the

first-mentioned diagrams exhibit separately. Certain other

Idrawings are appended, which will be explained in their proper

places. To all these drawings have preferred to add explan

atory notes, rather than to encumber these general pages with

Idetail, which can only be understood by a careful study of the
plans themselves.   would remark that, without attention to

these notes, it is impossible thoroughly to appreciate the dif

ficulties which are alluded to in these observations.

  I now proceed to consider the difficulties attending the intro

duction of a second gauge, both in the construction and working

of a railway, and the best means of removing them, so far as

Imay be practicable.

      trust that the length to which my remarks will necessarily
extend, will appear to be justified by the importance of the
subject. You will remember not only that the Great Western

Eailway Company are bound, by the requirements of a Parlia

mentary Committee, and of the Board of Trade, to maintain a -

Narrow Gauge Railway, with all facilities for working it, at the

stations, and along the line from Eugby to Oxford; but they

have further pledged themselves to connect Oxford with the

Narrow Gauge South Western chain of railways at Basingstoke,
by means of a Narrow Gauge link through Beading.

The establishment of an unbroken connection, by means of a

. * It has not been thought requisite on the present occasion to reproduce
the diagrams of the two engineers. For general purposes the arguments of

either writer can be followed with sufficient accuracy without the illustra

tions. The professional reader and the curious can consult the full Report,

published in 1847.
VOL. II.
                    T

274 APPENDIX.

safe and properly-constructed Narrow Gauge Railway, between
the two Narrow Gauge systems of railway, in the North and
South of England, is therefore considered by the legislative
authorities a matter of national concern, for otherwise the
construction of a duplicate railway 90 miles long would not be
enforced. During the present session, moreover, not only have
about 150 additional miles of railway been proposed to be laid
on the Mixed Gauge system, but various Parliamentary Com
mittees have appeared to consider it important to insert in
Railway Bills a clause, binding Companies to lay down
additional rails for another Gauge, on the Railway Commis
sioners deciding to exercise powers to order such additional
rails.

    Since, then, the notion of this untried system of Mixed
Gauge, and the reliance upon it as a remedy for the evil of a
Break of Gauge, and as a compromise between the conflicting

Isystems of Gauge, seems to be spreading both in Parlia

 ment and with the public, am desirous not to let pass the
present opportunity of treating the subject as completely as
 our present experience permits.

                          Permanent Way.

  IIn considering the effect of introducing a mixed gauge as

regards the construction of the permanent way, omit, for the

sake of brevity, all remarks on the mode of laying the

additional rail along the main line where it is unbroken by the

crossings, sidings, &c.,' necessary for the carrying on of traffic at

stations and other points. The mechanical possibility of laying

down an additional or intermediate rail in such parts of the line

IiAsppaedmndititxedI,I.;andamth,ehoewxepveenrs,e   of laying   it down   is given in
                                                  of opinion,
                                                               that the  keeping the

road in repair under the three-rail system, even in those parts
of the fine where there are no intersections of the rails, will be

troublesome and expensive, in consequence of the unequal action

Iupon the rails.          proceed to consider the difficulties attend
    Premising this,

ing those points of divergence from, and intersection with, the

main line, which are necessary accompaniments of every railway

serviceable for traffic.

             THE BROAD AND NARROW GAUGES.                      275

First, then, following the order of Mr. Brunel's remarks, as

to crossings. My whole experience of railway arrangements

leads me to a conclusion very different from Mr. Brunel's, that

crossings between the main lines are but rarely necessary. On

the London and Birmingham Railway, for instance, a length of

112 miles, there are no less than 58 crossings, and on the

lines on the north, where the mineral traffic is greater, their

number in proportion to the length of the railway is much

increased. Indeed, wherever we engage to admit traffic on a

railway, whether at passenger stations or at intermediate points

along the line? such a crossing between one main Hne and
another is necessary; the ordinary process of returning a

carriage or wagon from any station cannot be effected without

the intervention of such a crossing, and if a station is only on

one side of a railway, as is sometimes necessarily the case, say

the up side, the traffic from such a station may pass up, with

out crossing the down line, but cannot pass down without

crossing the up Hne ; so that on this account also a crossing is

necessary. In one way or other, then, crossings are necessary

wherever traffic arises ; from the annexed plan of the Slough
station (drawing No. 7), laid out by Mr. Brunel, it will be seen

that at this station only there are two crossings between the

main lines.

  IWith reference to the mode of laying a through crossing on

the three-rail system, find, after the most careful attempt to

introduce into the crossing the automaton switch (in the
manner proposed by Mr. Brunel for uniting the gauges), that

room cannot be found for its efficient working (see drawings

4 and 4a) ; it will therefore be necessary to use additional half
                             I.,

                                                            a
switches (at A and b, Fig.    drawing 4), for this purpose,

rendering two switch-men necessary to work crossing instead

of one, and introducing into the Narrow Gauge traffic new

chances of accident, arising from any failure of the two men

working together.

   In stations laid out as at Slough and Reading, on one side of

the line, so that every train entering the station has to meet

the switches, the risks attending these complexities of arrange

ment would be most serious.

On the same drawing (No. 4), the alternative of separate
crossings for the two gauges
                             t         suggested, an arrangement

                                 2 is

276 APPENDIX.

which, from its simplicity, is preferable to that of mixed

crossings, but requires more space.

  It is to be observed that the switches are by no means the

only objectionable parts of a crossing, a junction between two

lines of railway, a siding, or any other point where one system
of rails necessarily intersects the other. Wherever another rail
crosses the rail of the main line, a gap necessarily occurs in

the main line, in order to allow the flange of a wheel to pass as
it goes along the cross line ; every such gap inflicts a blow on

    ;                             and the higher the speed the

            it

                  is
                            is
                             it,
every wheel that passes over

greater the blow. How much of the wear and tear of stock
arises from this source, it perhaps impossible to ascertain

with precision but        notorious that the wear and tear of
                                            a
                                                             is

                                                                                a
most important part of the machinery of railway mainly
due to --that of the wheels and axle. An injury thus sus
it

tained may not cause an accident as the wheel passes over the

spot where the blow   is  inflicted, but may yet lead to one at

another place, the cause of which cannot then be determined.

The bending, or partial fracture of an axle, sets the wheel out

of gauge, and prepares for greater straining at the next point

where the main line intersected and thus, by succession of
is
                                   is

                                                         is ;

                                                          I.
                                                                    a)

                                                                                             a
blows, breakage ensues, or, even without breakage, the carriage

thrown off the line.

Again, the liability to run off greatest at these places of

intersection, or gaps in the main rails.

From the subjoined record (Appendix         of the accidents

which have occurred on the Midland Eailway during the last

twelve months, kept by Mr. Barlow, the resident engineer, it

appears that on that line seven-eighths of the whole number of

accidents of most dangerous class (namely, those resulting
    a

from trains getting off the rails) have arisen at places where
the continuity of the rail has been interrupted by switches or

crossing points. To increase the number of such gaps is, there

fore, to add proportionably to what experience has shown to be

the most frequent cause of accidents of the most serious class.

   In Appendix I., the results of my examination of Mr. Brunel's

diagrams are collected in tabular form, showing the increased
                          a

                                                                                                                 '
number of such 'gaps in the continuity of the main lines of rail,

and of fixed points to be met by the trains, in stations, at

junctions, and at sidings, by the introduction of one additional

rail, and by that of two additional rails.

THE BROAD AND NARROW GAUGES.  277

   The description of switch referred to in this table, is the
single switch, shown in Fig. 1, drawing A.

   This description of switch has been in most cases discarded,
in consequence of the disadvantages pointed out in Fig. 3,

drawing A. It is assumed in these remarks, as the switch

adopted for the Mixed Gauge, because it is the form suggested
by Mr. Brunel as the most applicable.

   With regard to the advantages claimed by Mr. Brunel as
attending the use of this switch under certain circumstances, it

is only necessary to state, that these advantages, such as they are,
are purchased by the adoption of an inferior form of switch,
involving an additional gap and fixed point in the common

main rails. (See Fig. 3, drawing a.)
   Referring to the table of particulars (Appendix I.), it is only

necessary here to state generally, that

   In the case suggested in drawing No. 1 (of Mr. Brunel) :--
   There will be two additional half switches, two additional

crossing points, two additional pairs of over-crossing points,
four additional gaps, and'three additional meeting points, to be
passed over by the trains of either one gauge or the other, or

by both.

   In the case of drawing No. 2 (of Mr. Brunel) :--
   There will be switches at four places instead of two, as with
the Single Gauge, and there will be two additional crossing

points, two additional pairs of over-crossing points, six ad
ditional gaps, and four additional meeting points, to be passed

over by trains of either one gauge or the other, or by both.

   In the case of drawing No. 4 (of Mr. Brunel) :--
   There will be two automaton switches of a novel and unsafe

construction (see drawing 4, a), to be passed over by every
train using the crossings, one of these switches being placed the
wrong way, so as to meet all the trains in one direction. There
will also be two additional half switches, four additional crossing
points, two additional pairs of over-crossing points, six additional
gaps, and four additional meeting points, to be passed over by
trains of either the one gauge or the other, or by both.

   In the case of drawing No. 5 (of Mr. Brunel) :--
   There will be two automaton switches, as in drawing No. 4,

to be passed over by every train using the crossing, one of
these switches being placed so as to meet all the trains in one
direction ; there will also be five additional crossing points, four

278 APrENDIX.

additional pairs of over-crossing points, nine additional gaps

and four additional meeting points.

   In the case of drawing No. 6 (of Mr. Brunel) :--
   There will be switches at four different places instead of at two,
as with the Single Gauge ; there will also be six additional cross

ing points, four additional pairs of over-crossing points, twelve
additional gaps, and eight additional meeting points, to be passed

over by trains of either one gauge or the other, or by both.

   All these additional points of danger, arising from additional

intersections of the rails (with the exception of the automaton
switches in drawings 4 and 5), occur on the main lines of rails ;

so that an accident arising at one of these points would affect

the traffic elsewhere, and delay and embarrass, in all probability,

other trains than that to which the accident occurred.

   The three-rail system thus increases the interruptions or gaps
in the main lines of rails, and the still more objectionable

meeting points, in the proportion of about two to one, and the

four-rail system about as three to one. But if we compare the

results of the record of accidents on the Midland line with the

table of additional intersections, and take into account the

necessary increase in the number of trains, attending the use of

Ia Mixed Gauge, referred to hereafter in these remarks, under the
head 'Traffic Arrangements,'     consider that the three-rail

system would increase the danger in the proportion of at least

four to one, and the four-rail system as five to one, from that

cause which has been proved by experience to produce seven-

eighths of the railway accidents consequent upon engines or

carriages running off the line.

  It is further considered, that the more closely these interrup

tions of the main line occur, the more difficult it will be to keep

the line in good working order, and this far beyond the direct

proportion of the number of such interruptions.

   From drawing No. 9 (showing a junction laid with two rails,
with three and with four) it will appear that, as the number
of crossing points increase, the main line rail becomes cut up

into shorter lengths, and the shorter the length of rail, whether

of Mr. Brunel's bridge rail, or longitudinal timbers, or of the
double Trail on cross sleepers, the more difficult it necessarily

becomes to fix and maintain it.

From the same drawing (No. 9), and from the other drawings,

THE BROAD AND NARROW GAUGES.  279

it also appears that the check rails, at present used as palliativesis,
of danger, become more difficult to apply, just as the danger
or the necessity for such check rails increases ; there being in
some cases no room at all for them, as, for instance, in such

complications as arise in some portions of the Slough station,
and at over-crossing points generally.

   In the Mixed Gauge system, therefore, we are partially

deprived of a palliative, which is deemed essential to safety

under the Single Gauge system, although we need it more than

under the ordinary system.
   The danger encountered by a fast train running through a

station without stopping, will, from these causes, be greatly

aggravated.
    From the whole of the preceding considerations, the following

general conclusions, in reference to the effect of the Mixed Gauge
system on the permanent, are drawn.

   First. That the four-rail system increases the complication so

much, as to be inadmissible, except where absolutely necessary,
as at turn-plates, &c.

    Second. That notwithstanding the exercise of the utmost
care, in construction and maintenance of way, the mixture of
gauges, either by means of three or four rails, introduces in the
road itself a greatly-increased risk of accident, entirely in
capable of remedy, and scarcely justifiable by any considerations
of mere convenience.

                         Arrangements of Stations.

   In considering in the next place the arrangements of stations,
which will be necessary on a railway of Mixed Gauges, the

question of mixed or separate sidings and crossings must be
considered more fully than is done in Mr. Brunel's Report.

   It may be stated at the outset, that the separate system will

require separate switches at separate places, instead of the con
nected half switches added by the mixed system, while it will
also introduce an increased number of crossing points ; but the
separate plan will render them more simple, and more easy to
lay with proper checks, and to keep in repair.

    The idea of arranging Broad and Narrow Gauge stock pro- '

miscuously together, suggests immediately great inconvenience.
    As regards spare stock, the separate system of arrangement

280 APPENDIX.

on the face of             is      the more convenient, because, whenever an
                              it,
extra vehicle wanted, its gauge being an essential part of the

demand, less shifting of the stock will necessarily be required,
if the two classes are kept separate, than
                                              a           they are placed

promiscuously together labour and time will thus be saved byit
                                           ;          if

separating them.

Common sidings for both gauges could only be used alter

nately for vehicles of the one gauge or the other, not for both

at one time, but one such siding were laid down, there could
                           ; if

                              it
                                  is
be no security against their being used for both kinds of stock

at the same time                           therefore necessary clearly to point out

the danger which would arise from such a practice.

   This danger will be readily appreciated by any one who has

stood by and observed carriage at station come in contact
                                   a
                                        a
with another, while porter stands perfectly secure between the

buffers, the carriage bodies being prevented, by the protection

of the buffers, from approaching so close as to crush him.

By reference to drawing (No. 10),             will be seen that the

carriages of the ordinary construction, Narrow and Broad

Gauge, when standing together on a common three-rail siding,
will not buff together, the buffers missing each other^ and

coming in contact instead of with the opposite carriage frames.

It unreasonable to expect that porter shall always, in the
is is                                         a
         is
                                                               ;
                 if
                                                             it

                                                                                                  ;
hurry of business, be able to consider whether an approaching

carriage Narrow or Broad Gauge, and, consequently, whether

he safe or not                     engaged in the siding at any rate, no such

danger should be thrust upon him by defective arrangements.

To render three-rail common siding safe, Would then be
                        a

necessary to alter the buffers of the entire stock of the whole

connected system of railways, using such sidings in such way,

that the narrow and broad carriages should buff together for

when once number of railways are connected in one system,
                        a

                                 it

                                       is
the stock finds its way to every part of the system at one time

or other; indeed,                          the very object of the proposed mixture

of gauges, that goods and passengers may proceed to their
destination without change of vehicles; Narrow or Broad
Gauge vehicles must be everywhere in turn, as the traffic
demands and, until all of them are made to buff indiscrimi
'
                     ;

nately together, there can be no safety for porters in three-rail
                                                          a

siding. Accidents of this nature occurred from the use of stock

THE BROAD AND NARROW GAUGES.                          1281

not buffing together, on tbe Glasgow and Greenock Railway,
until the remedy was applied; within a short period, several

persons were injured, some fatally.
   Besides the danger to the men, it is clear that the buffers of

every carriage (whenever two of different gauges, come together),
striking the cross framing of the other carriage, instead of the
longitudinal framing, or buffer ends, would knock the carriages'
to pieces ; one or two blows of this nature, indeed, would in all
probability so shake the framing of the carriage as to make it

unsafe.

   Again, in the moving about of stock at stations of considerable

traffic, engine power is used with much advantage. In the same

drawing (No. 10), a Narrow and Broad carriage are shown
coupled, to draw attention to the fact, that in a three-rail siding
used promiscuously for both kinds of stock, this economical and
necessary power cannot be used, without much danger of throw
ing the vehicles off the rails by the oblique line of traction which

results.

   Whenever turn plates are required, the three-rail system
must be converted into the four-rail system, as the action of a

turn-plate impbes a concentric arrangement.
   For these reasons, the application of the three-rail system at

stations appears inadmissible.

   It may here be remarked, that colHsions on a three-rail Mixed

Gauge line, between trains of different gauges, would necessarily
become more disastrous in their consequences than under the
present system ; the blow would be oblique, and would, there
fore, tend to twist and double up the train, and so to bring the
carriages into a position in which they would be least able to

resist the crushing force.
   The four-rail system for sidings has already been shown to

involve a greatly-increased number of dangerous points of inter

section. It would also be inconvenient at the platforms.

   The only alternative, then, is to lay separate sidings for the
two gauges, or, in other words, completely to duplicate the

station arrangements.

                               Traffic Arrangements.  of trains

  I now proceed to consider how far the number

required is affected by the mixture of gauges.

 282 APPENDIX.

     The object of a Mixed Gauge professes to be, to afford to the
 public the same amount of convenience as they would derive
 from an uniform system of one gauge. Under such a system,
 passengers or goods from Banbury (for instance), either north
 ward to the Narrow Gauge district, or south-westward to Bristol,
 or other places now on Broad Gauge lines, would be able to
 proceed, without change of vehicle, by any train of the day
 which might be most convenient. To retain the same amount
 of accommodation on a Mixed Gauge line, it is clear that the
 same number of trains daily would be required of each gauge,
 that is to say, the amount of trains collectively, would need to
 be doubled. The stock would therefore be nearly doubled, the
 amount of labour and expense in despatching the trains would
 be much increased, the risk of collisions would be fully doubled,
 and the profit of course would be much diminished, as the
 public accommodation would not be (by the supposition) in
 creased, but would only remain the same as it would be under
 an uniform gauge.

     The interest of a Company possessing a Mixed Gauge line
 would therefore clearly be, to reduce expense by working mainly
 on one gauge, choosing whichever might be most in accordance
 with their general interests ; in which case, it is clear, that they
 would no longer afford the public (as was implied by the pro
 posal of a Mixed Gauge line) the same advantages which would
 have been derived from a separate line of that other gauge,
 the working of which would inevitably be, for the reasons we
 have considered, discouraged.

                                                    Cost.

     Approximate estimates of the expense arising in various ways
 from the mixture of the gauge, are appended. By Appendix

 II. it will be seen that the additional expense arising from laying
 the Narrow Gauge (with the necessary facilities for working it)

 on a Broad Gauge railway, would be about £5,974 per mile,

 while, by Appendix II., the increased annual expense of main

 tenance and working, exclusive of interest on additional capital,
 would be at least £500 per mile per annum. This latter esti
 mate is founded both on my general experience of the expense
 of working and maintaining railways, and on a return of the
' actual cost per train per mile on the London and Birmingham

THE BROAD AND NARROW GAUGES.  283

line, where, from the great number of trains, the cost per train

is low.

   If, as is generally done in such cases, we capitalise this annual
expenditure of £500, it will amount (at 4 per cent.) to £12,500 ;

adding this to £5,974, the total additional cost of a Mixed

Gauge line would be £18,474 per mile.
   For this vastly additional outlay, we should get an inferior rail

way, less safe, and less efficient than the ordinary form of railway.
    Looking at the question of cost in another light, and having

regard to the fact that one principal reason of the establishment
of the Narrow Gauge on the Oxford and Rugby line, was the
accommodation of the coal traffic of the north ; this extra annual

expense of £500 per mile for working would, if saved, be

sufficient for the carriage of 120,000 tons of coal per annum
over the whole length of the railway free of all charge, or adding
4 per cent, interest on the original outlay of £5,974, for the

carriage of 177,360 tons.*
    Or, applying the result to passengers, the whole average

number of railway passengers travelling per mile per annum, is
about 180,000; a Railway Company might therefore takeoff
Id. per mile from all its passengers' fares, for the same annual
sum as the laying and working the additional gauge would

amount to.

  I have in the foregoing remarks endeavoured fairly to ap

preciate, and, as far as possible, to point out the means of
obviating, by the separation of the stations and traffic, the
difficulties both of original construction, of maintenance, and of
working, arising from the mixture of gauges, as well as to
estimate the probable additional expense of the system.

   What, then, are the advantages to result from its adoption ?
   By a Narrow Gauge line from Rugby, through Oxford to

Reading and Basingstoke, the through traffic from the Narrow
Gauge districts in the north and north-east, will be carried

without interruption to the south, south-west, and south-east,
and the communication of the agricultural counties, through
which the Oxford and Rugby line passes, with the coal-fields of
Leicestershire will be effected.

   * Over the whole Railway, allowing one penny per ton per mile for the
expense of carriage.

284 APPENDIX.

   On the other hand, the only ostensible object of the Broad
Gauge on the line between Oxford and Rugby, is the connection
of Exeter, Bristol, and the agricultural districts passed through
by the Great Western Railway, with the towns of Banbury, and
Rugby, and with the district (also agricultural) between Oxford
and Rugby, and this local object, we have seen, can only be
purchased at a great cost, and by a great sacrifice of safety.

   In the case of the Oxford, Worcester, and Wolverhampton

Hne, a main design of which is to afford accommodation to the
owners of mineral property in conveying their heavy produce to
the works of their customers, the increased cost of the Mixed

Gauge arrangements will to a great extent, if not entirely, defeat

the local object which it is proposed to effect.
   Stock for both gauges will have to be furnished and main

tained; extra Unes for the connection of the works with the

railway to be laid down, and extra space for the carrying on of the
traffic to be provided ; this, where the cost of the carriage forms
a large part of the price of the article when delivered to the

consumer, will clearly be a heavy tax on the producer, if it does

not, indeed, in many cases, amount to an absolute prohibition
of railway conveyance.

   It is important to observe, that the termini of this Mixed

Gauge system, introduced to remedy the evils of the Break of
Gauge, become themselves again the sites of other breaks of
gauge, at one or other of which all through-traffic from a
Narrow Gauge to a Broad Gauge district, or vice versa, must
be transferred. Thus, by the Mixed Gauge system, the evils
which have hitherto been confined to one district will be
repeated in new and distant parts of the country.

    The Break of Gauge, in short, cannot be remedied by the
mixture of gauges, until such mixture becomes co-extensive
with railways themselves, and thus, after enormous expense, we
should arrive at last at uniformity, but with the simplicity of
construction and arrangement, which can alone ensure the

Ieconomy, safety, and efficiency of the railway system.
                                              am, dear Sir,

                                                       Yours truly,
                                                               Robert Stephenson.

                          To R. Creed, Esq.
       Secretary to the London and North Western Railway Company.

ROBERT STEPHENSON'S NARRATIVE.  285

   This masterly Eeport (which, with all its strength, complete

ness and accuracy, may be regarded as nothing more than a
fair sample of Robert Stephenson's professional and official

papers) swept away the last hopes of the Broad Gauge adherents,
cutting from under them the ground on which with character
istic tenacity of purpose, they were rallying their forces for

another fight--and forcing the most prejudiced and most

obstinate opponents of the Narrow Gauge to admit that their
cause was lost beyond a hope of recovery.

II. INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS ON THE HISTORY OF THE

                       BRITANNIA AND CONWAY BRIDGES.

                       By Mr. Eobert Stephenson.

Shortly after the metropolis of this country and the great
commercial port of Liverpool had been connected by means of
railways, the public attention began to be directed to the further
improvement of the communications with Ireland. This, it was

obvious, could only be accomplished by extending the land
journey and diminishing the sea voyage ; or, in other words, by
increasing the comparatively certain and diminishing the
uncertain portion of the journey. The ports of Holyhead and
Dynllaen each had their advocates, as the most eligible packet
station and terminus for a railway destined to curtail the journey
from London to Dublin. The relative merits of these two points
of departure for Dublin were keenly discussed, and various inves
tigations were entered upon, and reports made, both by civil
engineers and naval officers.

   Those discussions terminated in the preponderance of evi
dence being in favour of Holyhead, which led to the adoption
of the line of railway as then designed by my lamented father
the late George Stephenson, which, with the exception of about
five miles in the neighbourhood of Bangor, is that which has now
been brought so near to completion. The first survey for this was
made as early as 1840, but the formal application to Parliament
did not take place until the sessions of 1843-4. The chief
engineering work then involved was the bridge over the Eiver
Conway, close to the existing suspension bridge. The passage

286 APPENDIX.

over the Menai Straits was proposed to be effected by perma

nently appropriating one of the two roadways of the great sus

pension bridge to railway purposes. The steep ascents at each
end of the present suspension bridge it was designed to avoid

by elevating the level of the railway to that of the suspended

roadway at its highest point As the strength of the suspension

bridge was deemed inadequate for carrying safely railway trains
and ponderous locomotive engines, it was intended to convey

the trains across in a divided state, if necessary, by means of

horse-power, another locomotive being in readiness to be at

tached on the opposite side ; thus the passage of engines was

entirely obviated. To this proposal the Commissioners of Woods

and Forests assented, with the condition, however, that the appro

priation of the south suspension roadway for railway purposes

should only be temporary. Such a stipulation rendered their

assent merely nominal, because the expenses which must neces

sarily have been incurred in carrying out the proposal were,

although suggested with the view of limiting the cost of crossing

the Straits, totally inconsistent with the idea of its being only a

temporary expedient.

The company were thus driven to abandon this part of their

plan and to propose an independent bridge for the railway.

   The bill was permitted to pass Parliament with an hiatus of

five miles, which were effected by the abandonment of the

suspension bridge as a means of crossing the Menai Straits.

There were, however, other objections distinct from that just

alluded to in reference to the suspension bridge. Some parties

urged that this portion of the line was needlessly circuitous --

that three-fourths of a mile might be saved by some additional

expense. Others objected to :      because               approached and

                              it

                                   is
                                      it,

                                                     it
interfered with the privacy of the residence of the prelate at

Bangor. It would be out of place here to discuss the value of

either of these objections   sufficient to say that they pre

vailed, and the company directed their engineer to deviate the

line to avoid them, and to select the best point for crossing the

Straits by an independent bridge.

Previous to the erection of the suspension bridge by Telford,

in 1826, various modes and points of crossing had been proposed
by Eennie and Telford. Their reports, plans, and opinions,

were carefully studied, which led to the adoption of the site

ROBERT STEPHENSON'S NARRATIVE.  287

known by the name of the Britannia Rock, about a mile to the
south of Telford's suspension bridge. This spot is peculiarly
eligible for the purpose, the rock being nearly in the centre of
the channel, rising just to high-water mark, and of sufficient
area to admit of the easy erection of a pier upon it. The
channel is here unbroken during the ebb and flow of the tide.

These peculiarly favourable circumstances were considered highly
advantageous, not only for facilitating the erection of a bridge,
but for rendering such a structure unobjectionable to the naviga

tion of the Straits. It was proposed to construct the bridge of

two cast-iron arches, each 350 feet span, with a versed sine of
50 feet, the roadway being 105 feet above the level of high water
at Spring-tides.

    The span here proposed was the same as that which had from
the first been designed for crossing the Conway Eiver.

    Such was the state of the engineering problem in reference
to the Conway and Britannia Bridges when the company

obtained the first Act of Parliament in July 1844. It was

proposed to construct a bridge consisting of one arch of the un
usual span of 350 feet over the Conway Kiver, at 20 feet above
high-water mark, and another over the Menai Straits at the
Britannia Rock, consisting of two arches each of a similar span,
but at the elevation of 105 feet above high water Spring-tides.

    The rise of the tide in both cases is nearly the same ; the
channels are also very similar, being from 50 to 60 feet deep,
with a rocky bottom, and a rush of tide reaching five miles an
hour at Conway, and seven miles an hour in the Straits.

    These conditions, together with the necessity of keeping the
channels open at all times for the purposes of navigation,
rendered it perfectly clear that none of the methods heretofore
adopted in the erection of cast-iron arches could be brought to
bear in either of these localities. The inordinate cost of

centering, even if other arrangements had admitted of its
application, was at once fatal to its adoption; and it soon

 became evident that some means external to the arch should

be employed to suspend the voussoirs, or ribs, until the arch

 was keyed in.

    A contrivance of this kind had at one time been considered

 by Telford for the suspension of centering, upon which he
 proposed to frame and connect the voussoirs, or ribs, of a cast

288 APPENDIX.

iron arch ; and a slight drawing of such a project is given in
the account of the Menai Bridge. Without going into the
merits of this proposal in the form suggested, or into its appli
cability to the present case, it is sufficient to say that it was

discarded, and a modification, as brought forward some years
ago by Sir Isambard Brunel, for constructing brick arches
without centering, taken up as more suitable. Sir Isambard's
idea, which was experimentally carried out to a great extent,
appeared unexceptionable, and led to the following design for
the erection of the cast-iron arches at the Britannia Rock.
Instead of two arches being erected upon two abutments and
one pier, it was proposed to treat the abutments as piers also,
and to complete the iron-work in the form shown by the follow

ing figure :--

   The erection of the arch was to be proceeded with by placing
equal and corresponding voussoirs on opposite sides of the pier,
at the same time tying them together by horizontal tie-bolts, as
shown below.

   This system, it is confidently believed, may be successfully

carried out to a far greater extent than would have been required
in the case of the Britannia Bridge.

  It will appear evident, on a little reflection, that as every

succeeding step of voussoirs is secured by the tie-bolts, the

tension of the last bolt, as well as all the previous ones, will be
relieved by an amount equal to the whole of the horizontal thrust

due from the voussoirs last placed.

          ROBERT STEPHENSON'S NARRATIVE.      289

If the voussoirs could be constructed or weighted, so that an

arch equilibrium could be formed, all the horizontal tie-bolts

might be removed, except the last one, for in such an arch the

horizontal thrust is everywhere equal. It is not meant that such

a method of proceeding as that of removing all the bolts could

be carried out practically--it is merely alluded to here to show

how largely the bolts would have been relieved from strain as

the arch progressed into a form which might appear to endanger

the stability of the structure.

Had this plan been carried out, it was not intended to have

keyed the arches at the crown, but to have left ample space

between the culminating voussoirs to admit of expansion and

contraction taking place freely. The bridge would, therefore,

have been simply a double-jibbed crane, perfectly balanced on
each pier. A connection at the apex of each arch would be

necessary, but so contrived as not to interfere in the least with

the expansion and contraction, and yet to counteract any tendency

to tilt, consequent on the variable pressure of the passing loads.

This mode of construction, although decided upon for the

Britannia Bridge, was found unsuited for that of Conway. There

only one span was required, and the springing of the arch would

have been below the high-water line, and from a natural mass

of rock on both sides, which at the east extremity rose nearly to

the permanent level of the railway.

  It was, consequently, impossible conveniently to treat the

abutments in the light of piers, as has been just described. More

over, the great additional expense of this method, where one

arch only is required, formed a serious objection to it, as it neces

sarily involved the use of double the weight of material requisite

for one simple arch, the weight of each overhanging wing being

equal to half the weight of the arch itself.

The objection on the score of expense did not apply to the

Britannia, for there the overhanging wings were a useful portion

of the bridge, and formed a substitute of the extension of masonry,

which would have been nearly as costly. Both the expense,

therefore, and the peculiarity of the site of the Conway Bridge,

pointed out the necessity of some other method being devised

for the erection of the arch. Various modes for erecting and

supporting a fixed centering were considered, but none appeared

satisfactory or safe ; whilst the formidable difficulty of stopping

VOL. II.                         U

290 APPENDIX.

the navigation, and seriously interfering with many vested
interests for probably two years, remained in all its force.

   This state of things led to the idea of building the arch com
plete on centering supported entirely upon, and framed into,
a series of pontoons kept afloat during the whole time of con
struction. This arrangement, which is shown in the following
sketch, appeared upon the whole far the most feasible that had
been suggested, and well adapted for placing the arch into its

permanent position :--

   The rise and fall of the tide were such as to admit of its being

brought immediately above the springings and lowered into its

place by the falling tide, or by admitting water into the pontoons
at the top of the tide, before the velocity of the ebb-stream had

Iincreased so as to interfere with the accurate adjustment of the

descending mass. This method of fixing arches have since
learned was proposed many years ago by Mr. Dixon, of Darling
ton. He made designs for a cast-iron bridge across the River Tees,
at Stockon, and, instead of erecting centres on the permanent
site of the arch, he proposed to use pontoons, precisely in the

manner which has been described. These plans were not carried
out, in consequence of the Stockton and Darlington Eailway

Company having determined to try a suspension bridge for railway
purposes instead of a cast-iron arch. For a brief description

of the particulars of the novel proposal of Mr. Dixon, I have

been favoured with a communication from Mr. E. B. Dockray,*

               ·                         Dixon, of the Stockton and Darling-

        * Euston Station : May 25 1849.  ton Railway,
                                             The proposed bridge was for the
  IMr dear Sib, --Inaccordance with
                                         purpose of carrying the Middles-
your wish, beg to send you the           borough branch of the Stockton and
following account of a mode of           Darlington Eailway across the Eiver
erecting the ribs of a cast-iron arch
proposed by the late Mr. James

         ROBERT STEPHENSON'S NARRATIVE.               291

Iwho resided at Darlington at the time when Mr. Dixon made the
design.  have also learnt from Sir John Eennie that this was

the method adopted for placing the centering of the Waterloo

and London Bridges ; the centres being constructed on pontoons,

and floated and lowered into their proper position.

Such were my intentions regarding these two bridges when

the general meeting of the Chester and Holyhead Eailway

Company took place on August 30, 1844.

In the following November, the Company deposited new

plans preparatory to an application to Parliament in the ensuing

session for the deviation which had been forced upon them by

the circumstances already alluded to--extending from near the

Eiver Ogwen to Llanfair, in the island of Anglesey, comprising,

in this distance, a series of railway works unparalleled in cost and

magnitude, the Britannia Bridge being one of them.

Tees, at a little higher up the river   placing the ribs of the arches. To
                                        obviate this difficulty, Mr. Dixon
than Stockton. Several plan's were      proposed to erect each rib separately

laid before the directors, and at       upon scaffolding or centre placed
                                        in pontoon, at such an elevation
length that of Captain Brown, for a     that when floated to the site of thea
                                        bridge the ends of the ribs woulda
suspension bridge, was adopted and      clear the skew-backs on the pier and
carried into execution. This bridge,
                                        abutment, and, when properly moored
as you will remember, proved insuffi    in this position, the pontoon was to
                                        be lowered (until the rib rested on
cient for the weight passing over  it,  the skew-backs) by admitting the
                                        water into the hold; and thus he
and for several yearsit     was sup     proposed to proceed with the erection
                        it              of each individual rib.
ported by timber gearing, carried
                                               saw the drawings in the year
upon piles driven into the bed of the   1831 or 1832, not only of the bridge,
river, until at length was entirely     but of the pontoon, with its centre
                                        and valve for admitting the water.
removed, and the present cast-iron-     They were in detail, and beautifully
                                        executed, and have no doubt they
girder bridge, built under your         are still in existence, probably in the
                                        hands of his brother, John or Ed
directions, was substituted. One of
                                        ward.
the designs originally submitted to     II
                                                    am, my dear Sir,I
the directors was by their resident                      Very truly yours,
                                                             Robert B. Dockray.
engineer, Mr. James Dixon: the
                                         To Robert Stephenson, Esq._ M.P.
bridge was of cast iron, of three

openings of about (if remember
                       I
right) 80 feet each. There was
                           it
nothing particular in the construction

of the bridge itself; but was sup

posed that the Tees Navigation

Company, then hostile to the Railway

Company, would object to the tem

porary obstruction of the navigation

by the erection of the centres for

                                        2

29:.' APPENDIX.

Immediately ou its becoming known what description of

bridge it was intended to throw over the Menai Straits, a new

series of objections was raised, and a violent opposition started

on behalf of those interested in the navigation of the Straits.

It was urged, that any such bridge as that proposed would

seriously injure and fatally aggravate all the evils and dangers

which beset the navigation. It was maintained that the diffi

culties of navigation arising from the great velocity of the tidal

currents, the rapid eddies, the number of sunken rocks, and the

baffling winds which frequently prevail, demanded the utmost

skill on the part of the pilots to avoid accidents of a serious

character : hence the necessity of Parliament refusing to sanction

the erection of arches, which, in consequence of the great area

occupied by the spandrils and piers, would not only restrict

vessels to a narrower channel than heretofore on passing near

the Britannia Eock, but would also shelter the vessels from the

wind in situations where it was of the utmost importance to

them.

These objections were deemed by many, deeply interested in

the Holyhead Railway, so grave as likely to endanger the

Isuccess of the Bill then before Parliament, and consequently the
whole undertaking.   In this position of affairs  felt the

necessity of reconsidering the question, whether it was not

possible to stiffen the platform of a suspension bridge so effec

tually as to make it available for the passage of railway trains

at high velocities.

In an attempt of this kind one remarkable failure had taken

place some years before at Stockton-upon-Tees, and a profes

sional survey of that structure had sufficiently demonstrated the

extreme difficulty of such a task.

At this time Mr. Rendel called my attention to the mode of

trussing which he had arranged for preventing oscillation in the

platform of suspension bridges, and afforded me the opportunity

of inspecting the working drawings of the method he had

pursued in correcting that defect in the Montrose Suspension

Bridge, which gave way from the accumulation of a mass of

people during a boat race, on March 19, 1830, and again,

subsequently, during a hurricane, on October 11, 1838. As

this latter accident appeared to arise from, or at least to be

materially aggravated by, the flexibility of the roadway, Mr.

                     ROBERT STEPHENSON'S NARRATIVE.                                                  898

                                                               is
                                                                   it,

                                                                                            '
  Eendel, being appointed to repair devised an excellent system

  of trussing, which has stood the test of several years. An

  elaborate and interesting 'description of the repairs executed

  under Mr. Eendel's directions recorded in the Transactions

  of the Institute of Civil Engineers for 1841.'
     The system of trussing here adopted by Mr. Eendel appears

  to me admirably adapted for a suspension bridge intended for

  such weights as pass along turnpike roads, but the case under

  consideration was unquestionably very different, and certainly

  demanded,          trussing were resorted to, much stronger and
                  if

                                a
                                                                           a
  more ponderous system than that followed on the Montrose

  Bridge. Amongst variety of devices for the accomplishment

  of this object, the most feasible appeared to be the combination

  of the suspension chain with deep trellis trussing, forming

  vertical sides, traversed by suspension rods from the chains,

  with cross bracing frames top and bottom, thus forming a

  roadway surrounded on all sides by strongly trussed framework.

  '      structure of this'kind would no doubt be exceedingly stiff

      aAvertically, and has, indeed, been applied successfully in America

  on large canal aqueduct, and clearly described in the
                                                                  7 is
  Mechanics' Magazine,'* vol. xliv. 1846.
                                                                        ;
  * This work consists of seven                                port the side-walk and tow-path,

  spans, of 160 feet each, from centre                         incline outwards, and are connected

  to centre of pier. The trunk                      is     of  with the beams in similar manner.
                                                                                        is a
  wood, and 1,140 feet long, 14 feet                      ;    Each trunk-post                 held by two

  wide at bottom, 16J feet on top, the                         braces      2J         10-in. and connected
                                                                               x
  sidesa          feet deep. These, as well                    with the outside posts by double
              8£                                                                     ;            a

  as the bottom, are composed of                               joist of 2£xl0. The trunk posts

      double course  diaogf on2a^l-liync--h    white           are inches square on top, and         7
  pine plank, laid                           the two                                                   is ; X
                                                               14 at the heel the transverse beams

  courses crossing each other at right                         are 27 feet long, and 16x6 inches

  angles, so as to form solid lattice4a                        the space between two adjoining4
  work of great strength and stiffness,
                                                                 inches. It will be observed that

  sufficient to bear its own weight and                        all parts of the framing are double,
                                                               with the exception of the posts, so as
  to resist the effects of the most vio

  lent storms. The bottom of the                               to admit the suspension rods. Each

  trunk rests upon transverse beams                            pair of beamsa           supported on each
                                                                                 is
  arranged in pairs      feet apart                            side of the trunk by double sus
                                                                                              aa
  between these, the posts which sup                           pension rod of l^th-inch round iron,
                                                               bent in the shape of stirrup, and
  port the sides of the trunk are let in
  with dovetailed tenons, secured by                           mounted on small cast-iron saddle,

  bolts. The outside posts, which sup                          which rests on the cable. These

291 APPENDIX.

   The application, however, of this system to an aqueduct is
perhaps one of the most favourable possible ; for there the
weight is constant and uniformly distributed, and all the strains
consequently fixed both in amount and direction, two important
conditions in wooden trussing constructed of numerous parts.
In a large railway bridge it is evident, so far from the conditions

obtaining under any circumstances, they are ever varying to a
very large extent, but when connected with a chain which tends
to alter its curvature by every variation in the position of any
superincumbent weight, the direction and amount of the com
plicated strains throughout the trussing become incalculable as
far as all practical purposes are concerned.

    Putting these objections on one side for a moment, the
introduction of wood into such works as the Conway and
 Britannia Bridges seemed inadmissible, both on account of its
 perishable nature and danger from fire.

   IThis led to the revival of a design had made in 1841 for a

saddles are connected on the top of     5 feet above the level of the side-
the cables by links, which diminish
in size from the pier towards the       walk and tow-path, being 7 feet
centre. The sides of the trunk rest     wide, leave 3 feet space for the pas-
                                        sage of the pyramids. The ample
solid against the bodies of masonry,    width of the tow and foot-path is

which are connected on each pier        therefore contracted on every pier ;
and abutment as bases for the pyra-     but this arrangement proves no in-
mids which support the cables.
These pyramids, which are con-          convenience, and was necessary for
structed of three blocks of a durable,  the suspension of the cables next to
                                        the trunk,
coarse, hard-grained sandstone, rise

ROBERT STEPHENSON'S NARRATIVE.  295

small bridge on the Hertford and "Ware Branch of the Northern

and Eastern Eailway, where it was necessary -- in consequence

of certain restrictions in the Act of Parliament authorising the

construction of this branch -- to construct a bridge for the

purpose of carrying a common road over the Eiver Lea, in the
town of Ware, with a certain headway above the towing path,
and yet not to raise the street more than a given amount. The
span was to be 50 feet, aDd the conditions only admitted of a
platform 18 or 20 inches in thickness. For this purpose a
wrought-iron platform was designed, consisting simply of a
series of cells, as shown in section in the following figure, the
whole being of boiler plate, riveted together with angle-iron,

as in our ordinary boiler building : --

       T--T--T--T--Y T

         JL JL JL JL A JL

   The bridge was not, however, carried out in conformity with

the design. Instead of the platform consisting of wrought-iron
plates, riveted together, forming one mass, it was constructed of
separate wrought-iron girders, composed of wrought-iron plates
riveted together, and arranged as in an ordinary cast-iron girder

bridge.

  It was reverting to this bridge that led me to apply wrought-

iron with the view of obtaining a stiff platform to a suspension
bridge, and the first form of its application was simply to carry
out the principle described in the wooden suspended structure

last spoken of, substituting for the vertical wooden trellis

trussing, and the top and bottom cross braces, wrought-iron

plates riveted together with angle iron. The form which the
idea now assumed was, consequently, simply a huge

wrought-iron rectangular tube, so large that railway trains

;might pass through with suspension chains on each side.

       it it,
The first arrangement, therefore, of the tubular structure was

exactly similar in form to the trellis trussed wooden design

before alluded to but was evident that the action of the top

and bottom of the tube, composed of thick wrought-iron plates,

would be infinitely more efficient than the top and bottom braces,

whose duty was chiefly to keep the side trusses in their vertical

206 APPENDIX.

position. The top and bottom plates performed precisely the

Isame duties as those of the top and bottom wheels of a common

cast-iron girder. It was now that began to regard the tubular
platform as a beam, and that the chains should be looked upon
as auxiliaries. The rectangular figure, although it admitted

of great facilities for attaching chains, appeared ill suited for

maintaining its form, and liable to become lozenge-shaped
without a system of diagonal struts inside. This latter ar

rangement appeared impracticable, so long as the idea of

the trains inside was adhered to.

   The rectangular figure was also deemed objectionable, from

the large surface which it presented to the wind -- the side

pressure due from a hurricane being very considerable. These

circumstances suggested the propriety of circular or elliptical

tubes, which appeared well calculated, if not to remove,

certainly greatly to moderate these difficulties. On March
13 and 14, 1845, 1 gave instructions to my assistants, Mr. Gr.
Berkley and Mr. W. P. Marshall, to prepare drawings of

a tubular bridge in accordance with the last-mentioned views,

the tubes being made with a double thickness of plate, top and
bottom. All calculations were now made as to the strength of

the tube, irrespective of the chains, by following the principle
which had been adopted by Mr. Hodgkinson in determining

an empirical formula for cast-iron girders. It will be seen

hereafter that although this was not strictly correct reasoning,

it was for practical purposes a near approximation to the truth ;

Iand as it disregarded the sides as an element of strength, it
appeared to lead to unquestionably safe results.  could not at

that time avail myself of the generally received theories of tubes,

viz. that their strength was directly as their sectional area and

depth, and inversely as their length, for no experiments had
been then made confirmatory of such theory, or which furnished

any data for practical purposes. The results, however, arrived

Iat by assimilating the tube to a cast-iron girder, as has just

been mentioned, were so favourable, that determined at once to

make use of this description of bridge, should the opposition to

the design with two cast-iron arches, already described, prove

formidable in our progress through Parliament with the Bill

Ithen pending.       was placed in a most difficult position.

   At this juncture

ROBERT STEPHENSON'S NARRATIVE.                           397

Those interested in the navigation of the Menai Straits, as well

as those who had, prior to this period, strenuously advocated

Dynllaen in opposition to Holyhead as the proper terminus for a

railway, had succeeded in inducing the Admiralty to give

instructions to Sir John Eennie, Mr. J. M. Eendel, and Captain

Vidal, to visit the Straits forthwith and report upon the probable

injury which might accrue to the navigation of its waters by the
Ierection of the proposed arches at the Britannia Rock.
                                                         was

too well acquainted with the overwhelming weight which is

almost invariably given in such investigations to a long-established

public interest, and the extreme jealousy with which any in

terference with it is watched, not to feel that the fate of my first
Idesign was sealed.
                     stood, therefore, 'on the verge of a
I Iresponsibility from which confess had nearly shrunk: the

construction of a tubular beam of such gigantic dimensions, on

a platform elevated and supported by chains at such a height,
did at first present itself as a difficulty of a very formidable

nature. Reflection, however, satisfied me that the principles

upon which the idea was founded were nothing more than an
extension of those daily in use in the profession of the engineer.

IThe method, however, of calculating the strength of the structure

which had adopted was of the simplest and most elementary

character; and whatever might be the form of the tube, the

principle upon which the calculations were founded was equally

Iapplicable, and could not fail to lead to equally accurate results.

When began to regard the tube as a beam, one of the forms
Twhich the notion took was that of two huge double
                                                    cast-iron

girders placed alongside of each other thus, sufficiently large for
a railway between them.

298 APPENDIX.

In such a pair of beams, the area of the bottom section and

the depth are the most important elements in calculating its

strength. From this mode of treating the subject, it was obvious

that the same view was strictly applicable to a tube whatever

might be the form, the ultimate strength depending mainly on

the area given to the top and bottom sections.

This was the shape which the subject took in my head between

March 16 and 23, when Sir John Eennie, Mr. Rendel, and

Captain Vidal, visited the site of the proposed bridge over the

Menai Straits, in compliance with the instructions issued by the

Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, for the purpose of

ascertaining how far the proposed cast-iron bridge of two arches

was likely to interfere with the interests involved in the navi

gation. The reports of these gentlemen will be found annexed,

from which it will be seen that the cast-iron bridge was deemed

ineligible, and that a clear passage through the whole span, as

in the existing chain of bridge, of at least 100 feet above high

water line, would be insisted upon.

My apprehensions respecting the fate of the design for the

cast-iron bridges were now realised, and it appeared evident

that the tubular bridge was the only structure which combined

the necessary strength and stability for a railway with the

conditions deemed essential for the protection of the navigation.

  IIt became my duty, then, to announce to the Directors of

the Chester and Holyhead Eailway Company that was prepared

to carry out a bridge of this description. They did me the
Ihonour of giving me their confidence after
                                                had generally
Iexplained my views ; not, believe, without some misgivings on

their part.

  IIt soon became known to many of my friends what my in

tentions were, and to several fully explained my views in detail,

and entered into the calculations, especially with Mr. G. P. Bidder

and others in my office.

   General Pasley (now General Sir Charles Pasley), then In

Ispector-General of Railways, called upon me, believe about the
Ibeginning of April. To him showed my sketches and explained

my views. He concurred in the soundness of the idea, but most

decidedly objected to the removal of the chains, urging as a
reason, that no object could be anstvered by taking them down

if once put in their place, for the purpose of contracting the

ROBERT STEPHENSON'S NARRATIVE.                              299

Itube. To this argument felt there was no sufficient answer,

especially if any contrivance could be devised for making them
serviceable in giving strength to the tube, the possibility of

I Iwhich did not doubt, although from the observations had
Imade on the Stockton Suspension Railway Bridge, considered

there was considerable difficulty and several objections to ren

dering a flexible chain available for strengthening a rigid platform.

IGeneral Pasley, however, urged so strongly the propriety of

allowing them to remain on prudential grounds, that ceased to
urge the intention as a part of the design, for it was evidently a

Istep which might be allowed to depend entirely on the results

developed in the progress of the work. When had explained
to the directors my views, Mr. John Laird, the well-known iron
ship builder, then one of the Chester and Holyhead Board,

Iexpressed his confidence in the great strength which such a

structure as proposed would possess, and adduced some in
 stances where the extraordinary strength of iron ships had been
tested when stranded. The most remarkable case, however, of
 this kind, where the strength of the hull of an iron vessel had
 been strikingly evinced, was brought before me by Mr. Miller,

 the eminent marine engine builder, and having occurred under his

 own eye, he was enabled to afford me the minutest information.
     The incident here alluded to took place in launching the

 Prince of Wales iron steam vessel, at Blackwall, at the works of
 Messrs. Miller and Ravenhill, and was deemed so demonstrative

 of the excellence and surprising strength of iron ships, that an
 engraving was published by Mr. Miller, exhibiting the position
 and dimensions of the vessel, with a brief description of the

 accident as under.*

tHE PRINCE OF WAXES IKON StEAM VESSEL.

   * This vessel is entirely of iron, and  She is 180 feet long between the
is intended for the Margate station.                        In launching, the
                                           perpendiculars.

300 APPENDIX.

   The circumstances here brought to light were so confirmatory

Iof the calculations had made on the strength of tubular struc

Itures, that it greatly relieved my anxiety, and converted my

confidence into a certainty that had not undertaken an im

Ipracticable task.                      should be called

   The period was now approaching when

upon to give evidence before a Parliamentary Committee on the

subject of the proposed bridge. My late revered father,

having always taken a deep interest in the various proposals

which had been considered for carrying a railway across the

Menai Straits, requested me to explain fully to him the views

which had led me to suggest the use of a tube, and also the
Inature of the calculations  had made in reference to it It

was during this personal conference that Mr. William Fairbairn

Iaccidentally called upon me, to whom also explained the prin
Iciples of the structure had proposed. He at once acquiesced

in their truth, and expressed confidence in the feasibility of my

project, giving me at the same time some facts relative to the

remarkable strength of iron steam ships, and invited me to his
works at Millwall to examine the construction of an iron steam

ship which was then in progress. Mr. Fairbairn's experience in

this department of engineering being well known to me, and

also his investigations in connection with Mr. Hodgkinson on the

subject of the strength of cast-iron, it occurred to me that he

cleet on the bow gave way in conse     afloat it was found that the shear of
quence of the bolts breaking, and let  the vessel was not broken, and that
the vessel down, so that the bilge
came in contact with the wharf. She    she had received no injury, except
                                       that the bow was twisted in conse
was ultimately forced off by screw-
jacks and two tug-vessels, cutting     quence of letting go the stern-rope,
her way deeper into the concrete and   and thus exposing the vessel to the
planking of the wharf, until she as    sweep of a strong ebb tide. On exa
sumed the position represented in      mination it was found that three of
the drawing ; and at that period the
distance measured from the face of     the angle iron ribs, or frames, were
                                       broken, and one of the plates crack
the wharf to the point of contact of
the vessel and the surface of the      ed, occasioning a considerable leak,
                                       which was accompanied by no other
water was 110 feet. The whole of       inconvenience than that of filling the
                                       bow compartment as far as the first
the deck in the centre of the vessel   bulk-head ; and after hauling the
                                       vessel into dock, the necessary re
was left unfastened for the reception  pairs were effected in four days.
of the machinery. When completely

           ROBERT STEPHENSON'S NARRATIVE.                   801

Iwould be well qualified to assist me in the experimental enquiry

which had determined upon making prior to finally deciding

on the exact dimensions of the tubes or mode of procedure.

He readily agreed to assist me, and it was forthwith decided

to consider and arrange a series of experiments.

   Nothing, however, but preparatory steps were taken, when

the Bill for the deviation of the line in the vicinity of Bangor

was brought before a Committee of the House of Commons on

IMay 5, 1845.    gave before the committee on the above day
   The evidence

was received with much evident incredulity ; so much so, that

towards the end of that day's proceedings the committee stated

they would require further evidence, and especially that of the

Inspector-General of Railways, before they could pass the Bill

Iauthorising the erection of such a bridge as that which had

proposed. The preamble of the Bill was passed, but a resolu

tion come to which left the question of the bridge entirely open

for further consideration. In this position of things it became

evident, from my general knowledge of the decided opinions

Iheld by the Inspector-General respecting the propriety of not

dispensing with the chains, that should not persist in the

Iopinion that they were unnecessary. Accordingly it will be

observed that whilst expressed an unequivocal opinion as to

Ithe sufficiency of the tube alone, was driven, from the circum

stances that surrounded me, to leave the impression upon the

minds of the committee that at all events the chains might be

left as auxiliaries to the tubes if necessary.

The Bill passed the committee, and in due course became

Ilaw by receiving the Royal assent, June 30, 1845.  on tubular
       now commenced an experimental investigation
constructions. The performance of the experiments   I entrusted

to Mr. Fairbairn. Before any experiments had been performed,

be suggested a modification of my views, similar to that which

has since been proposed by Mr. Cowper, as a mode of con

structing rigid suspension bridges, and described in a paper

read before the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, October

27, 1847.

The notion is the converse of the first, or beam platform.

Mr. Fairbairn proposed to transfer the rigidity from the plat

form to the chain. This was effected by converting the chain

:i02 APPENDIX.

into a large flat tube or tubes, with sufficient flexibility to

assume a curved form, but with sufficient rigidity to resist much

distortion of curvature by unequal or varying pressure, such as

is usually communicated by the transit of a heavy weight along
the platform of suspension bridges.

The tubular construction in both ideas is resorted to for the

purpose of obtaining the requisite stiffness ; and the question is

really, in which way are strength and stiffness attainable most

economically and efficiently. This view occupied my attention

for some little time ; but the difficulties of erection appeared to

me insuperable, whereas, with the rigid platform, the ordinary

chains offered great facilities for constructing and erecting the

tubes. The rigid beam, instead of the rigid chain, was therefore

persevered in as preferable, not only because it afforded greater

facilities for erection, but on account of the rigidity of the

curved tube being very problematical.

There can, however, be no question that a rigid suspension

bridge, with a tubular chain, in some cases, may be employed

with success. Its construction, however, did not appear to offer

such advantages as to justify my rejecting the rigid tube, which

offered greater facilities for erection, as also the probability of

dispensing with the chains altogether.

    We had not proceeded far in this experimental investigation

Iwhen Mr. Fairbairn suggested that Mr. Eaton Hodgkinson's aid

should be solicited. To this proposal instantly consented;

for being familiar with the valuable contributions of this gentle

man to engineering science, more especially in the department

which comprehends the very subject then engrossing my atten

I Ition, felt, considering the responsibility which had publicly
Iassumed, that should be doing injustice to the Board of
IDirectors, who had placed such confidence in me, if did not

Iavail myself of all the practical and scientific aid which might
be within my reach.  did so, freely and unhesitatingly, from

every quarter. The experiments conducted by these gentlemen

are given in detail in a subsequent chapter. The facts elicited

by these experiments were carefully discussed with them from

time to time, and the best method of pursuing the investigation

was determined upon. In the majority of the early experiments

failure took place by the crushing of the thin plates in the upper

side of the tubes. This defect induced me at once to return to

ROBERT STEPHENSON'S NARRATIVE.  303

the original form in which the tube had occurred to me, viz.
that of an ordinary flanged girder. To carry out this notion,
keeping in view the tendency of the plates to buckle, a double
top of corrugated iron was applied, and a corresponding increase
made in the strength of the bottom was attended with favour

able results.

    The top of the tube thus came to be considered simply as a
series of parallel hollow pillars to resist the compression to
which it was subjected by transverse strain. Among the
numerous modifications which presented themselves, a series of

Irectangular cells possessed so many practical advantages, as

regards construction, that did not hesitate to give this arrange

ment a preference ; and although subsequently some advantages

Iin the use of circular cells were clearly developed by the

experiments, did not consider them of sufficient importance to
change my decision. There is no doubt, from subsequent

experience, that the fears at this time entertained with respect
to buckling were, to a considerable extent, exaggerated, for the
thickness of plates is an element of far greater importance in

this resistance to buckling than was then imagined.

   In March 1846, sufficient data were accumulated to enable

Ime, for the first time, to decide somewhat definitely on the

required dimensions, and accordingly gave instructions to my
assistant, Mr. Edwin Clark, to prepare a model of the tube,
which was made with rectangular cells in the top and bottom,
the sectional area of the top being then provisionally fixed at
600, and that of the bottom at 400 square inches. The various
modifications which afterwards took place, as new facts were
disclosed, will be found fully described hereafter.

   The success which has attended our exertions in this laborious

and anxious investigation demands of me this public acknow

Iledgement.          am indebted for the zeal with which he
   To Mr. Fairbairn

entered upon the experimental investigation, for the confidence
he displayed in the success of my design, for the sound practical
information which he brought to bear on the subject, and the

assistance he rendered as we progressed.

   To Mr. Hodgkinson for devising and carrying out a series of
experiments which terminated in establishing the laws that

regulate the strength of tubular structures in a manner so

.'504 APPENDIX.

Isatisfactory that was enabled to proceed with more confidence

Ithan otherwise should have done.

To Mr. Edwin Clark, the resident engineer, for the important

assistance he rendered me in strictly scrutinising the results
of every experiment, whether made by Mr. Fairbairn or by Mr.

Hodgkinson, and for the separate and independent scientific

Ianalysis to which they were invariably subjected by him before
  finally decided upon the form and dimensions of the structure

Ior upon any mode of procedure.

     have now brought the history of the Conway and Britannia

Bridges to a date after which all that was done has either been

communicated in official reports to the Board of Directors, or
has been carefully registered by my assistant, Mr. Edwin Clark,

who has given his undivided attention to the subject since the

beginning of 1846, during which period he has collected a mass

Iof information which cannot fail to be both interesting and
important to the profession to which he belongs.  cannot close

this statement respecting two works which have caused me years

Iof increasing and intense anxiety without expressing my regret

that one of the gentlemen to whom have always been most

anxious to award all credit to which he is entitled should have

endeavoured to enhance his own claims by detracting from the
credit fairly due to all those with whom he has been associated

Iin this great work. But sincerely trust the facts and views

put on record in the following pages will enable those who
take an interest in the subject to do justice to all parties

concerned.

         INDEX.

vol. n.  X


                                                   INDEX.

                                 ABB                                                     ATM

ABBsAumSmoPnasshRao, bVeircterSotyephoefnsEognyptt,o           Atmospheric system of railway pro
                                                                   pulsion,   history          of the,              292
                                                                    Denys     Papin's          notions              of atmo
Cairo, ii. 173                                                 --                                   i.
                                                                                                         i.
ilAbyssinia, the viceroy of Egypt in,
         247                                                                                                             i.
                                                               --sGpheeorricgeprMoepduhlsuiorsnt,'s                 299
Adams, Mr. Bridge, on the mechani                                                                                   inventions,

cal defects of railways, i. 290                                --2M99r. John Vallance's tubes and

Addison, Dr., at Tommy Rutter's                                ----eMMxperes. srirHms.eennCrtsyl,egPgink3au0ns1d's
--shchisoodleaatth,Loin. g20Benton, i. 20                                     i.
                                                                                         i.                                        301
                                                                                                                                   pa
                                                                                                                 i.
Aire, Robert Stephenson's iron bridge                                                                                patent,
                                                                                                                    Samuda's

over the, ii. 68                                               --tefinrstst,      302        the    system                  on the

                                                                              trial of

Airey, Professor, on the Royal Gauge                               Birmingham, Bristol, and Thames
Commission, ii. 12                                                 Junction Railway,
                                                               --   description of the              i.              303, 338
                                                                                                                    apparatus
Albert Bridge, the Royal, at Saltash,                                                                                                 as

ii. 68                                                         --gMivre.n     by the inventors, l. 303
                                                                              James Pirn's advocacy of
Alexandria, Robert Stephenson at,                                                                                                  the

--ii.th1e74railway from Alexandria to                          --aftamvoosuprhaebrleic   system,                      309
                                                                                         report of
                                                                                                                    Sir F.
                                                                                                                    i.           Smith
                                                                                                                       i.
Cairo, ii. 174                   ii.                           --antrdiaPl rooffetshseorsyBstaermlowo,n               310   i. i.

Algiers in 1857,                 of,  2fl4o7wi_ng                                                                   the Kings
America, Lakes                                     into the        ton and Dalkey Railway,
                                                                                                                                   310,
river St. Lawrence, ii. 191
                                                               ----33sdu8emtamilsaroyf
Anger, Mr., in Egypt, ii. 179, note                                                      the apparatus, 311
Anglesea, Island of, its distance from                                                   of the chief arguments
   the mainland of Carnarvonshire,                                 in favour of the atmospheric sys

ii. 74                                                         --teRmo,bert31S2tephenson's report to the

                                                                  Chester and Holyhead Directors,
Arches, invention of, in bridges,                              a
----iiE.Mg3yr2.ptiDanix,onii'.s                                     i.
                                 32        of      fixing,     --   316                        calculation                  of     the
                                   method                                   i. i. i.Mr. Samuda's
ii. 289                                                                            i.
Army Estimates of 1856, Robert                                     expense of the tubes and engines

    Stephenson's speech^m the, ii. 147                         --  per mile,         of  324   public               in      the    at
Arnold, Dr., Robert Stephenson's in                                 interest              the

terview with, i. 202                                           --mtohsepheCrrioc ydqounestaionnd,a                     329       Rail
                                                                                                    i.              Epsom
Athenaeum Club, Robert Stephenson
    at the, ii. 230                                            --waapyp, oin3tm30ent of Committee of
                                                                  the House of Commons to inquire
Atlantic and St. Lawrence Railway,
formation of the, 192                                              into the merits of the atmospheric
                                      ii.

Atlantic telegraph, proposition for                            --  plans,        331     in
an, ii. 250.                                                        their     report           its  favour,                      332
                                                                                                                        i.

                                                            x

308 INDEX.

A--tmcouslpmhienraictinsgystpeomin--t ocfontthineuehdistory                                               Bell, John and Henry, said to have
                                                                                                             been the discoverers of the blast-

--ofthtehefivaetmcoasspehseroicf   plan, i. 337                                                           pipe, L 145
                                  the actual prac                                                         Benha, railway tubular bridge over
tice of the atmospheric system,                                                                           --ththeeNdileesigant,s  ii. 176
i. 338                                                                                                                              made      by Mr. G. R.
-- details of the tubes used between
    Forest Hill and Epsom, i. 340                                                                         Stephenson, ii. 179, note
                                                                                                          Bentinck, Lord George, his proposal
--  the South      Devon Railway,             i. 346                                                      to subsidise Irish Railway Com
--  history of     the trial of the           atmo                                                        panies at the time of the famine of

--  spheric system             in France, i.  350  in                                                     --18co4n6s, uilit.s 131 Robert             Stephenson,
     determination              to abandon
                                               it

--threamt acrokusntorny,thie.  354      of the trials                                                     George Hudson, and Mr. Laing,
                               results                                                                       ii. 132
                                                                                                          -- his speech in the House of Com
    made of the atmospheric plan,                                                                         mons on the subject, ii. 133
   i. 356
-- mechanical efficiency of the sys                                                                       Benton, Long, George Stephenson,
                                                                                                          ----attS,hwei.e'a1st0tor,en1e's2t'atomf,osip. h1e0ric
--  tem, i. 356
--
    question of        economy, i. 358                                                                                                                           engine at,
    and of the         general applicability

    of the system to railway traffic,                                                                     --i.   12, note
    i. 358                                                                                                --    road from Newcastle to,                          i. 13
                                                                                                                Tommy Rutter's school                            at, i.
Avalanche galleries of the Alpine                                                                                                                                        19,
    roads, ii. 79
                                                                                                          --20Antony
                                                                                                          -- visit of  Wigham of, i. 26                          to, in
                                                                                                                       Robert Stephenson
BAINAEleSxa,ndrMiar.             Edward,   on the                                                             1857, ii. 237
                               and Cairo  Railway,                                                        Benton Banks, i. 13
                                                                                                          Betts, Edward Ladd, one of the
    ii. 179, note                                                                                            contractors for building the Victoria
Ballast engine, the first, on the hanks                                                                      tubular bridge over the St. Law
   of the Tyne, i. 6                                                                                          rence, ii. 187, 209
Barlow, Professor, his favourable

    report on the atmospheric system,                                                                     Bidder, Mr. George Parker, com
                                                                                                              mencement of his friendship with.
   i. 310                                                                                                 --RhoisbeortppSotespithioennsoton,
-- on the Royal Gauge Commission,                                                                                                                i.              60
    ii. 12                                                                                                                                    the                atmospheric
                                                                                                              system of propulsion,
Beam, return to the form of the, in                                                                       --   accompanies Robert                                i. 334
                       ii.                                                                                                                                        Stephenson
--  iron bridges,      of      41   beam  or girder                                                                 trip to Norway, ii. 130
      advantages               the                                                                        --onhisa  report on the state of the

    system over the arch or suspension                                                                    --lijcoinwsorkRoinbeIrret laSntdephinen1s8o4n6,        pub
              ii. 43
--fotrhmes,  earliest  iron beams used in                                                                                                                        ii. 132
                                                                                                                                                                  on a
   building, ii. 44                                                                                           yachting excursion, ii. 241.
-- Mr. Telford's 'Essay on the                                                                            --   completes the Norwegian railway,

   Strength of Cast Iron,' ii. 44                                                                             ii. 244
-- Mr. Rastrick's girders at the                                                                          Bidder, Mr., jun., in Egypt, ii. 179,
------BbtfrriiorutsiwsstshasetpdrpiMnlgiugcisradetgeiuiorrmsdn,eo,rfsiii,i..h4io4i7.l4l,o4w665,w6ro5ught
                                                                                                              note

                                                                                                          Bidder, Mr. Samuel, his account of a
                                                                                                              trip to Canada with Robert Ste
                                                                                                              phenson in 1853, ii. 180
    iron girders to bridge construction,                                                                  Bigge, Mr. Matthew, accompanies
--ii.de6t2a,ils63of girder bridges, ii. 64                                                                   Robert Stephenson on a visit to
Beds, colliers', i. 9                                                                                        the North, u. 237

Belgium, railways in, i. 220                                                                              Birmingham, Bristol, and Thames
-- Robert Stephenson's account of                                                                            Junction Railway, application of
                                                                                                              the atmospheric system to the,
    railway progress in, ii. 184                                                                              i. 303, 338

                                                     INDEX.                                                        308

                          BIB BEI

Birmingham and Gloucester Kailway,                          Braithwaite, Mr., appointed engineer
    ii. 9                                                       of the London and Colchester
Birket - el - Saba, railway tubular
--brthidegedeosvigenrsthme aNdiele          ii. 176             Railway, i. 238
                                            Mr. G.                                        his mansion, i. 14
                                    at,              R.     --Branhdislinkgin, dnMers.s,  to George Stephen
                                    by                          son, ii. 143
   Stephenson, ii. 179, note
Blackwall Railway, Mr. G. P. Bid                            Brandreth, Mr., his ingenious engine,
    der's statement respecting                       the       <The Cyclops,' i. 142

    mode of working the, i. 328                             Brassey, Thomas, one of the contrac
B--lasMt-rp.ipeH,edhliesytoryWyolfamth'es,  i. 144              tors for constructing the Victoria
                                             mode    of         viaduct over the St. Lawrence,
                                                               ii. 187, 209
--  letting off  the waste steam, i. 144                    Breakwater at La Guayra, Robert
      George     Stephenson's 'Puffing
--Btihlley,B' ei.lls14a5nd James Stephenson,                    Stephenson's report against the
                                                               construction of a, i. 78
--i.G1e4o5rg, e14S6tephenson's letter to Mr.                Bridges, iron, Mr. Stephenson's large
                                                            --prtahceticBeritianninroian,  bridges, ii. 30
    Phipps, i. 148                                                                          High-Level,            and

Blenkmsop's patent locomotives, i.                          --  Victoria bridges,          ii. 30
                                                                 remarks on the            application
    264                                                                                                            gene
Blisworth cutting, cost of the, i.
                                                            ------rabDtlhrlryie.dgfDtioeressitaracoigrrnoousnlbsieraritdshrc,geheiiS.bberv3uide3iglrdneisn,gat,iiC.iio.3a33l1-
    194

Bogie engines on North American                             --brMoork. daTleel,foiir.d'3s3 bridge over the
   railways, ii. 180

Boiler tubes, locomotive, of the

--Mtehsesrsm. uJaltmituebsu, lai.r  51, 52      of  Mr.     --.Saervcehrni,roiin.  34
                                       boilers                                      bridge

--HtehnerymBuoltoittuhb, uil.a5r,2 in locomotive                                            over  the Wear,

--e'ntghineeRs,oci.ke1t1,'8,th1e19f,ir1st26en-1g2in8e with  ---- ii.bTro3imd4gePaaintet'shebrWidegaer,mioi.ut3h4,  35
                                                                                                                   ferry,
   multitubular boilers, i. 144                                ii. 34
Bonomi, Mr. Joseph, his paper on                            -- and over the Thames at Staines,
                                                                ii. 35
    an enormous granite sarcophagus,                        --  iron bridges in France, ii.
    ii. 250                                                 --  the Ponts du Louvre and                         36
Booth, Mr., treasurer of the Liver
                                                                                                                d'Aus-

    pool and Manchester Railway, his                        --  terlitz, ii.  36           Southwark   bridges,
    invention of the multitubular                                Vauxhall      and

--bhoiilser,aci.co5u2n,t  119       the  question    of     --ii.ca3s6t and wrought iron for bridges,
                            of                              --iip. r3o6p,er3t7ies of wrought iron as dis

    locomotives against stationary en                          tinguished from those of cast iron,
   gines, i. 123, note
Borthwick, Mr. M. A., in Egypt,                                 ii. 37
   ii. 179, note
Boulton and Watt, Messrs., their use                        --  suspension bridges, ii. 37
    of iron beams in building, ii. 44                       --  the foot-bridge across the
                                                                                                                   Tees,
Boussingault, M., visits Robert Ste                             at Middleton, ii. 37
   phenson at Santa Ana, i. 91, 92                          -- Captain (afterwards Sir Samuel)
                                                            --BMrorw. nT'selfsoursdp'esnssiounspebnrsiidognes,    ii. 38
Bowstring girders,- ii. 46, 65                                                                                  bridges
Boyne, lattice girder bridge over the,
   ii. 67                                                   --oivnetrrotdhuectMioennaoi f  Straits, ii.  39
                                                                                           railways,   and
Boxer, Mr. F. N., his description of                                                                               con
   the Victoria bridge over theriver
                                                                sequent large demands for iron
    St. Lawrence, ii. 190, note                                          ii.
                                                               bridges,  to         39,    40    of the
Braithwaite and Erichson, Messrs.,                          -- return              the     form                    simple
                                                                beam bridge, ii. 41
    their engine, ' The Novelty,' i. 142,                   -- comparison of the advantages of

310 INDEX.

                           BRI                                                                                              BRI

Bridges -- continued                                                                               Bridges -- continued
    the three different systems of iron                                                            -- important principles derived from
    bridges, ii.                                                                                                                          ii. 86
--                       42    the beam                                              or   girder   --thdeessecreixpptieornimoenf ttsh, e  Britannia  tubu
      advantages           of
                                                                                                   --laarndbridogfe,thiie.
   over      the other systems, ii. 43.                                                                                     100               bridge,  ii.
              Hodgkinson's improvements                                                                                     Conway
-- Mr.

------inttthhhgeeeirtbdbroeuriwsrdssgebtderridsingggeoisrvd,geeirririd,.etih4ri.e,5                    109
                                                                                                   -- account of the High-Level bridge
                                                                                     ii. 46        ----aMdt eNrs.ecwricpSatteisoptnlhee-onosfnot-nTh'ysisneb,riedxigip.ee,1r1iimi3. e1n1t7s
                                                                                              Lea
                                                                                     47
                                                                                       river

--anadcciodveenrt  the Minories, ii. 48                                                       the      upon different kinds and different
                    to the bridge over
--DReoebaetrtChSetsetpehre,nisio. n4's8 description                                                --mthixetuKraefslreo-Af zczaastyairtont,ubii.ul1a2r6bridge
                                                                                                   --ovReorbtehret    Nile, ii. 174-176
   of the defects of compound girders,                                                                                Stephenson's description
                                                                                                       of ii. 177
--ii.hi5s3evidence before the Iron Rail                                                            -- the Victoria viaduct over the' it,
                                                                                         ii. 55
--wiaroynSbtrruidcgtuerse   Commission,                                                  Valley    --  river St.      Lawrence,           ii. 180, 186
                           of the Trent                                                                 detailed      account of          this structure,

--Raanildwaoyf,     ii.  55          and                                             Leghorn          ii. 190 et      seq.
                  the    Florence                                                                  -- Robert          Stephenson's
                                                                                                                                              article in


             ii.
 --linceir,cular55issued by the Commis                                                                 the Encyclopaedia Britannica' on,
   sioners of                        ii. 55                                                            ii. 31
-- minutes         Railways,         also by                                                       Bridge, swing, over the Nile, ii. 220
                   published                                                              them,
--ii.co5m6mission appointed by royal                                                               Bright, Mr. John, M.P., 257
                                                                                                   Brighton, chain pier at, ii. 38i.
     warrant to investigate the subject                                                            Bristol and Gloucester Railway Ex    i.
 --oefviridoenncberidgtaekse, n  ii. 56, 57                                                        --tetnhseiofni,rstii. break of gauge' on the,
                                                                                                      ii.
                                   before                                            the      Com      9
                                                                                                                 '
--mPisrsoifoensesros,rs  ii. 57, 58                                                                                   9

                          Willis     and                                             Stokes's      Britain, Great, expense of railways
                                                                                                     in, as compared with those of
     paper on the deflection of beams
 --unredpeorrmt oovfintgheloaCdosm, mis5s8ioners to
                                     ii.                                                               foreign countries, 289

     Her Majesty, ii. 58                                                                           Britannia bridge, account of the, ii.
      first application of
 --                                  wrought-iron                                                  --73M, r.28S5tephenson's selection of the

     girders for bridge construction, ii.                                                          --siftierstofidtehae  bridge, ii. 80
                                                                                                                         of the tubular
    62                                                                                                                                        combina
                                                                                                      tion, ii. 80
-- general view of the state now                                                                   -- the Britannia Bridge Bill passed,
     attained in the art of iron bridge
     building, ii. 64                                                                              --ii.M8r.4 Fairbairn and Mr. Hodgkin
--   three classes of iron bridges, ii. 64
--   details of girder bridges, ii. 64                                                             --soimn'spoerxtapnertimperinntsc,ipleiis.  85       from
--   Mr. Stephenson's bridges over the                                                                                                        derived

    Aire, over the Nile, and over the                                                              ----thbMeurc.ekxSlpitneegrpimheoenrnstcoson,l'lsapiis.ere8p6oofrtt,heii.p8la6tes
--Waecacor,uniti.  68-70
                   of the        Britannia                                               bridge,                            ii. 87
                                                                                                                            stone of
-   ii. 73   et seq.             suspension                                               bridge   --  of the top part,                       the  bridge,
 -- Mr.                                                                                                 laying the first
             Telford's           ii. 77                                                                ii. 89
                                 tubular
--ovfierrst  the Straits,                                                            combina       -- the large model of the bridge
              idea of the
--tinoonv, eilit.y82of such constructions, ii.                                                                         by Mr. Fairbairn, ii.
                                                                                                   --prreepsaurletds  of experiments with              90
                                                                                                       model, ii. 91                                   this

-- experiments for the Britannia                                                                   -- means of placing the tubes in
   bridge, ii. 85                                                                                  their positions, iL 91

                                                                                                                                       INDEX.                                                                 311

                           BBX                                                                                                                                                      cajt

B----ritafmlnoananitaiunfgabcratidungdreeh--ooficstothninetigntuutebhdeesm,                                                                   Brunei, Mr. K.--continued
                                                                             ii. 94                                                               evils of the break of gauge,' ii.ii, i. I.
                                                                             up, ii.
                                                                                                                                              --  14     indifference          '
--96completion and opening of the                                                                                                                 his                             i.     to  pecuniary        ex
                                                                                                                                              --peesntsaeb, liisi.hm15ent of the Railway
--bdriedsgcerjipiit.io1n00of the structure, ii.                                                                                               --CRleoabreinrgt  House, ii. 16

------10tpMh0rrei.nctSuiptbeleepsh,eonifis.coon1n'0st1inueixtpyl,aniia. t1io0n0s of                                                                             Stephenson's                   remarks        on

                                                                                                                                              --Bhruisneair'sgulmooesnet            box    system, ii. 22
                                                                                                                                                                                     of   competition be
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ii. 26
peculiarities in the combinations,                                                                                                            --twheisen   the different                     lines,   railway
                                                                                                                                                          evidence on                         iron

----------iiv.taicthiorss1esci0tthd4tiuootterfwoactebthturiehslriteawyal n,obddrriekiia.ds,ibgg1uinei0t.,m9 1iein0in.8ts11, 0885ii7.,  107    --  structures,               ii. 58       over  the    Thames
                                                                                                                                                   his iron                bridge
                                                                                                                                         ii.             Windsor, ii. 65
                                                                                                                                              --nehaisr  iron bridges over                           the  Wye

                                                                                                                                                  at Chepstow and over the Tamar
                                                                                                                                              --athiSsaaltsassishta, nici.e
242                                                                                                                                                                                 67    raising    the  tubes
                                                                                                                                                                                     in

Britannia rock, in the Menai Straits,                                                                                                         ------ ohhhfiiisssthLvereiesvBpitiroairtttathonatEonngiaytshphbeti,rpiGd,igiri.iee.2a,24ti49i.W4 9e8stern
   ii. 80                                                                                                                                         railway on the gauge question, ii.

Broughton, Robert Edwards, his
   death, ii. 252

Brown, Mr., his vacuum-engines,

i. 71                                                                                                                                         --26S9ir Isambard, his plan for con
----Bromwhhuiinsse,lcs),uChsaahppiienstnaspciinhioenari(naabftrctideaBgbrrweliegsash,,rtdoiisiin..,3S388iiir,.                         Sa
                                                                                                                                                 structing brick arches without cen
                                                                                                                                       76
                                                                                                                                        38        tering, ii. 288
                                                                                                                                              Brunton, Mr., of Neath Abbey Works,
Bruce, Mr., his academy in New
                                                                                                                                                  70
                                                                                                                                               i.
                                                                                                                                                   i.
--caRsotlbee, rit.  34               a pupil of                                                                                               Brussels, Robert Stephenson's visit
                      Stephenson
                                                                                                                                                  to, 114

his, i. 34                                                                                                                                    Brussels and Ghent Railway, open
                                                                                                                                                 ing of the, 220
Bruce, Mr. George B., and the Royal
   Border bridges, ii. 140                                                                                                                    Burn, Ann, of Walsingham, Robert

Brunel, Mr. I. K., appointed engineer                                                                                                            Stephenson's visits to, 18                    i. i.
                                                                                                                                              Burstall, Mr., of Leith, his locomo
   of the Great Western Railway, i.

--23h8is evidence in favour of the                                                                                                                tive, the 'Perseverance,' 142, 144

atmospheric system of propulsion,                                                                                                                                chain, first                  introduction
                                                                                                                                                                the navy, ii.                  38
   i. 332                                                                                                                                     CAoBf,LiEntSo,

-- his friendship for Robert Ste
--phheisnspornop, osiia.l                                                                                                                     Cabmen, Robert Stephenson's treat
                           2    the  broad  gauge                                                                                      for       ment of, ii. 165
                            of
the Great Western Railway, ii. 3
                                                                                                                                              Calisthenic exercises for ladies, 104
                                                                                                                                                                                                          i.

-- advantages anticipated by him                                                                                                              Callerton, Black, George Stephenson
         a broad gauge, ii.               4
   from  mode of treating                 the                                                                                                     at,  i.
                                                                                                                                                           8
-- his
                                                                             antici                                                           Canada in         1827, 110                      trip to, ii.
   pated inconvenience of 'break of                                                                                                           -- Robert           Stephenson's
--gahuisger,'epioi.rt5 to the Great Western
----dhhiriiesscttihnocerosonrisynisot1ef8nr3ca8iei,lsw,iai.y5di1s2tricts,                                                                         180
-- failure of his theory of railway
                                                                                                                                       ii.             his speech at Montreal on rail
                                                                                                                                          8   --wianylasnidn,laiik. e1n82avigation of Canada,

                                     ii.                                                                                                      --  ii. 192
                                                                                                                                              --
--dhisistricetxsp,ediii.en1t3s for meeting the                                                                                                    first   efforts' in               railways         in, ii. 192
                                                                                                                                                  the     Atlantic                  and St.          Lawrence

                                                                                                                                                  Railway, 192

                                                                                                 INDEX.

                                   CAN                                                                                                              COS"
               --continued
       Canada                             Richmond                                               and          Clay Cross collieries, George Ste                          L
                Quebec and                                                                                       phenson's property in the, 240
       -- the
                                                                                                              Claxton, Captain, R.N., his assist
           Montreal and Kingston Railways,                                                                       ance in raising the tubes of the
       --ii.the192Grand Trunk Railway of,                                                                        Britannia bridge, ii. 97
       --ii.m1a9in3 objects of the railway
                                                                                                              Clearing House, Railway, establish
                                                                                                                  ment of the,       ii. 16
       ----sGyRersaxotentbemdenrttTorfu,aSnntiiekd. p1hRi9mea2ni,plswoo1arn9tya3,no-4nciei.                   --   its leading       principles,                    ii.  16
                                                                                                              -- its returns for 1845, ii. 17
                                                                                               of the
                                                                                              194             Clegg, Mr. Samuel, his patent atmo
                                                                                             railways
                                                                                                              --spahsesoricciatteusbesh, ims3e0lf2 with Messrs.
           and their importance in Canada,                                                                                       i.
.          207                                                                                                                          i.
                                                                                                              --Starmiaul doaf,      802
    ii.Cannibalism at sea, 106, notei.                                                                                           his plan                   on  the      Birming
                                      i.                                                                          ham, Bristol, and Thames Junction
       Canterbury andWhitetable Railway,
          opening of the, 154                                                                                     Railway, 303
                                                                                                                                 i.
       Capper, Mr. Charles, anecdote of him                                                                                              i.
          at the dinner at Dunchurch,                                                                                                        9
           212                                                                                                Clocks, colliers',
                                                                                                              Coaches versus Railways, 170, 171
                                                                                                 a i.         Coalbrookdale, iron bridge over the                 i. 3 i.
       Carr, Mabel, married to Old Robert                                                                         Severn at, ii. 33

       --  Stephenson,         i.                                                                           i.Cobden, Mr., his motion respecting a
             their children,      i. 2                                                                           uniform gauge, ii. 11
                                         2                                                                    Cogyn river, viaduct over the, ii. 79

       Charlton, John, engaged to Fanny
       --Hheinsddeerastohn, ,                                                                                 Coining press, invented by Robert
                               i. i.
                                   5, 5                                                                           Stephenson,                           71
                                       8                                                                                             i. i.
                                                                                                                                           i.
       Chat Moss, George Stephenson's dif                                                                     ------CollatihGetereMieoSersngdieonbmesatSsortlneeSpyweh, seatnnastn2oei1n,n5'sgto1n6m,4ines164ati.
          ficulties at, 112
                               i.                                                                                                                               i.

       Cheffins, Mr., jun., assistant surveyor
          to the Alexandria and Cairo Rail
           way, ii. 179, note
       --Chersetjeerctainodn                Railway: --                                                       --CtlraaymwCraoysss, in               240
                              Holyhead      for erecting                                                                                            1676,   ii.
                              of bill
                       ii.                                                                                    Colliers, their beds and clocks,                             i.
                                 a                                                                                                                                            9

           bridge of two arches over the                                                                      Colombia, condition of, in 1827,                                     i.

       --Stthraeits,tubu8la1r Britannia bridge,                                                                   103, 109
          ii. 82
                                                                                                              Colombian Mining Association, the,
       -- the bill for the tubular bridge
                                                                                                              --    66               to                 Robert      Stephenson
                                                                                                                  proposition
       --paRsosebde,rtiiS. te8p4henson's examination                                                                                                                               68
                                                                                                              ---- tofaoguarecnecdsomttopoangbyoe,      the expedition,        i.
                                                                                                                                                           72
           of the atmospheric system in re                                                                                                          a i.                           L i.
                                                                                                                                                            losing concern,
                        to this    line,                                                                          93,94
       --fefraetnacle  aecident     at thei.  315
                                              Dee
                                                                                             bridge,          -- disappointment of the directors,
       --ii.en4g8ineering interests and import
                                                                                                              --  98
                                                                                                              --
       ----antchoceeursobefiltlohfipstahsleisneeldin, ewii,.itihi7.8                                              the secretary's blunder, 99
                                                                                                                  condition of the Company's affairs
                                                                                                                  at the end of Stephenson's term,
                                                                      78, 79                     of                                                                                i. i.
                                                                         hiatus                                   101
                                          i.                                                                  --  machinery
           five miles, ii. 80                    a                                                                                   constructed                     for the,

       Chien, or Hund, the, 99                                                                             130

       Circumferentor, or mining compass,                                                              Commercial Road, the tramway laid
       made by Robert Stephenson, i. 48                                                                   down by Mr. James Walker in the^
Clanny, Dr., his safety-lamp, 37                                                                                         ^
Clark, Mr. Edwin, his evidence on                                                                             227
                                                                                             i.        Commercial Road Railway, 228i.

                                                                                                       Constantinople, winter of 1858 in, ii.
--irRoonbebrritdgeSst,ephiie. n5s8on's letters to,                                                                                                                       i.
   from Alexandria and Algiers, ii.                                                                        246                                                               i.  189,
                                                                                                       Contractors, Railway, in 1833,
       24(3
                                                                                                           193

                                                                      «

                                                                         INDEX.                                                                313

                     CON ETR

Conway river, railway iron bridge                                                                                    i.
   over the, ii. 78                                                                                                           of,
                                                                               EARtoTwHnQoUf AMaKrEiqSui,tae,ffect83 on the
Conway bridge, description of the
   structure, ii. 109                                                          Eau Brink Commissioners, their dis
Cooke, Mr. William, and the electric                                              pute with the Norfolk Estuary
                                                                                  Company, ii. 137
telegraph, i. 235                                                              Ebrington, Lord, ii. 146
Cornish mining, Robert Stephenson's
----retmhpienoierrrtsd,oen^minio.Cr6ao9lliosamtbioina,,                        Edinburgh university, Robert Ste
                                                                                    phenson's residence in the, 55
                                                                                                                                      i.

                                                         i.  87                --Egyipntt,roRduocbteiortn  Stephenson      in, ii. 173
                                                         i.  87                                             of railway     communi
-- their riots in Robert Stephenson's
--hoauthsele, tiic.                                                            --ctahteiongreinattop, oini.to1o7n3 over the Nile, ii.
                     89, 90  with                        them,    i.  91       --1R73obert Stephenson's
                     sports

Croydon and Epsom Railway, adop                                                                  ii. 244                 trip to, in
tion of the atmospheric system on                                                               air of the
, the, i. 330, 341                                                             ----1M8th5re8.,  Bonomi's                ii. 247
Crumlin, the iron triangular framed                                                                           desert,
   girder bridge at, ii. 66                                                                                   paper    on an enor
Cubitt, Mr. (afterwards Sir W.), his                                           --mleotutesrgfrraonmitethsearPcaosphhaaguosf,            ii. 250.
                                                                                                                                      Egypt to
   evidence in favour of the atmo                                                   Robert Stephenson, ii. 261
                                                                               Egyptian arches, ii. 32
                             ofj
                                    i.

                                                 i.
                                                                   i.
spheric system propulsion, 332                                                 Electric telegraph, invention of the,
Cundy, Mr., his proposed railway from
London to Brighton, 222, 223
                                                                                      235

                                                                               Elliot, Hannah, of Ryle, Robert Ste
                                                                                  phenson's visits to, 19
                                                                               Ellis, Mr., of Liverpool, 75
DALHcOomUmSisIsEio,n    Lord,  his motion for                                                                     i.
                          for  deciding on                                                                          i.

                                                                                                                         i.
                                                                                                                                          i.
i.uniform gauge, ii. 11                                               i.       Empson, Charles, accompanies Ro
    a                                                                       a     bert Stephenson to Carthagena,
Darien, Isthmus of, roads in the, 95                                           Ill,--1a0n3d to England,
Davy, Sir Humphry, invention of hisof
               i.                                                                                                                     113
                    l.
   safety-lamp, 37                                                                  Encyclopsedia Britannica,' Robert
-- the safety-lamp controversy,                                          37-   '    Stephenson's article on iron bridges
                                                                  i.               '

--3r9eward awarded to Sir Humphry,                                                  --inRotbheer,t  ii.   31
                                                                                                         Stephenson's
                                                                                                                           article on
                                                                                      Iron Bridges quoted, ii. 177
39                                                                                                         '

Dean river, 13                                                  ii. 48         Engine, the first ballast, on the banks
                                                                 ii. 55
--Deembordiedge,     accident to the,                                               of the Tyne,           i.
                     strengthening                                                                             6

                                                             it,               Engines. See Locomotive engines
                                                                               Engine-drivers in 1828, 115
Dixon, Mr., his method of fixing                                                                                       i.

arches, ii. 289                                                                     Euston Square, the stationary en
Dockray, Mr. R. B., his account of
Mr. Dixon's method of fixing                                                        gines and ropes originally used at,
                                                                                    and Camden Town, 209
arches, ii. 289, note                                                                                      ii.
                                                                                                                      i.
Dodd, Mr. R. B., his proposal for                                              IllEvans, Mr., his contract for the Con
i.                                                                                way bridge,
    3                                                                          Exhibition of 1851, Robert Stephen
                          i.
                                                    i. a

                                                                          ,
high-level bridge at Newcastle-
on-Tyne, ii. 114                                                               --soCnoolonnethl e
Dolly Pit, George Stephenson at the,                                                                     committee,       ii. 130
                                                                                                         Sibthorp's       speech               and
                                                                                    motion against the proposal for the,
Dripsey Paper Works, the two Ste-                                                   --iiR.o1b4e6rt Stephenson elected mem
   phensons at the, 63                                                              --bheirs  of the       i. a
                                                                                                         committee,       ii.of       166      to
Drobak, the 'Wenham Lake ice'                                                                  offer     of loan                     a1,000/.
   obtained at, ii. 258
                                                                                    the committee, ii. 166, note
Dublin compared with Edinburgh,                                                     Eyre Arms Hotel, the draughtsmen's
                                                                                    room at the, 191
    63

Duff, Mr., sub-assistant engineer in
   Egypt, ii. 179, note

Dynllaen, Port, ii. 77

314 INDEX

                           FAI                                                                                  GEB
                                                                                          Gauges -- continued
FAIrRenBdeAreIRd Nb,y       Mr. W., services
                           him to Robert Ste                                              ii-- Brunei's theory of railway dis
                                                                                             tricts,
--phheinssone,vidiei.nc2e99,  303                                                         -- the Great Western Railway con
                              on   iron          railway                                           '
                                                                                                           8

                                                                                                               8
                                                                                                                                        9
--strtuackteusreso, utii.   58              for     hollow                                ----sfgtirorusoctdtesdb, trreaiaif.kficof  gauge,' ii.
                           a patent                                                                                                  the grand           of
                            girders, ii.
--whriosubgrhidt-gireosn  on this plan          63                                                                                                cause
                                                at
                                                    Black                                 ----dgtihfafeuicgueOltxypfaoimrndp'hblaernetedaekrWso,oflvjiriea. urh1g0ae,m' piit.o1n0

   burn       and Bolton,     ii.  63           Britannia
             experiments      for   the
-- his

--bprirdegpear,eisi.  85   large model              of the                                   contest, ii. 10
                      the                                                                 -- motions of Lord Dalhousie and.

bridge at Millwall, ii. 90                  ii. 174                                          Mr. Cobden, ii. 11
             steam, on the Nile,             of                                           -- appointment of the Royal Gauge
F--erMryr,.   Sopwith's account
                                i.
                                              et

                                                 it,
                                                      ii.
                                                                                                              ii.
    174                                                                                   --CBormunmeils'ssionin,coiin. s1is1tencies,                    12,

Flatchat, M. Eugene, his information                                                      --1c3lassified list of witnesses ex
    on the trial of the atmospheric
    system in France, 350 seq.
Florence and Leghorn liailway, iron                                                           amined by the Gauge Commis
                                                                                                            in 1845, ii. 17,
    bridges of the, ii. 55                                                                --  sioners        Stephenson's             note               on
                                                                                               Robert                                evidence

F--ranRcoeb, eirrtonSbteripdhgeenssoinn's,  ii. 33, 36                           of           the question of the, broad and
                                               account                                        narrow, ii. 21

    railway progress in, 184       i. ii.                                                          his objections to the system of
                                                                                             double, ii. 23, 25
Freemasons' Tavern, Royal Society                                                         -- table of railway lines completed,
    Club dinners at the, ii. 231
Friar's Goose pumping engine of                                                              in progress, and projected, on the

    George Stephenson,                      51                                              broad and narrow gauge plans, ia

Fowler, Mr., in Egypt, ii. 219, note                                                      --  1845, ii.     24
Fox, Mr. (now Sir C.), his evidence                                                            report       of  the
                                                                                                                                     Gauge        Commis

    on iron railway structures, ii.                                                          sioners, ii. 25

    58                                                                                    -- the Dialogues of the Gauges' in
                                                                                              the Railway Record,'a ''                ii. 26
-- his iron bridges, ii. 65                                                               --   Brunel's argument of                  competition
                                                                                                   '
                      the battle of the, ii.                                              --bpeitcwteuerne  the different lines, ii. 26
                      Great Western Railway
                                                                                                            from the                        Illustrated
GAU--GEtShe,                                                                     3                                                   '
                                                                                    1         News of the troubles consequent              i.
--inBr1u8n3e3l',s ii. proposal of the broad                                                                     of gauge, ii.
                      2                                                                3      on break          the Act for           27
                                                                                               passing of                            Regulating
                                                                                          --

----gtgahaueugge4e-ffoeofer Gtthe8eoJr-giGnerceShattegpWahueegnsest,oenri'nis.,  ii.      --thBeruGnealu'sge    of Railways,          ii.         28
                                                                                 first                          report to            the
                                                                                                                                                    Great
                                                                                              Western Railway Company on the
                              ii.                                                                           of gauge, ii. 269
--pguabulgicesraoiflwsaomy,e  of   the3     tramways                             in       --  question       Stephenson's report,                        ii.
                                        a                                                      Robert

   the mineral districts, ii.               44                                                272
-- advantages anticipated by Brunei                                                       Gay, Mr. E. H., of Pennsylvania, his
                  broad gauge, ii.                                                            survey for bridge across the St.
               a   objections to
    from                                                                                                      a
--   obvious                                wide    gauge                                     Lawrence, ii. 198  i.

    at that period of railway history,                                                    Geographical Society, their dinners,
   ii.                                                                                    --iid.is2c3u0ssion on the Suez Canal ques
-- Brunei's first position, ii.4

                                                 5

             his mode of treating the incon                                                   tion at the, ii. 250
    venience of 'break of gauge,'                                                         --Geaonredcideo'tesaoffetyG-elaomrgpe,
                                                                                          '                                          the, 37
                                                                                                                                     Stephenson's
    ii.  65

             his examination before the                                                       trial of the, 38

    Gauge Commissioners in 1845,                                                          Germany, erection of iron bridges in,
    ii.                                                                                       ii. 34

                                                                         INDEX.                                                               315

              gib HIQ

Gibbons, Mr. Barry, Ms evidence in                                             --GreBartunWeei's8terpnropRoasialwl aoyf--tchoentinbureodad
   favour of the atmospheric system
   of propulsion, i. 331                                                       --gtahuege,    ii.  authorised3                           and  con
Gibbs, Mr. Joseph, his proposed                                                             line                                            a8

railway between London and                                                        structed on      the broad                         gauge,   ii.
Brighton, i. 222                                                               -- its triumph      over the                         London     and
Giles, Mr. Francis, appointed' engi
                                                                                   Birmingham, ii. 11
neer of the London and South                                                   Green, Mr. John, his proposal of

ampton Railway, i. 238                                                             high-level bridge at Newcastle-on-
----GirdtRreuorsbsse,erdbt, owiSi.tset4rp6inh,ge6,n5sioi.n'4s6,                    Tyne, ii. 114
                                                                  65           Greenwich Observatory, Robert Ste
                                                                 description       phenson at the, ii. 251
    of the defects of compound girders,                                        Gosforth Hall, 14
--iif.ir5st3 application of wrought iron,                                                   '
    to bridge construction, ii. 62, 63                                                                i.
                                                                                                                                    his engine,
                                                                                                               i.                   142, 143
                                                                                                                      i.

                                                                                                                     i.
                                                                                                                            ii.
-- details of girder bridges, ii. 64                                           HACKthWe OSRanTsHpa,reMil,r'.,
--  the I-shaped girder,    ii. 65                                             Halhette, M., his improvements in
    examples of other, ii.                                                         atmospheric tubes, 350
--                          66, 67

Glyn, Mr., his part in the formation                                           Hammer, throwing the, 42
    of the Railway Clearing House,
                                                                         ii.   Hardcastle, Mr., in Egypt,                                     179,
                                                                                   note
    16
Gooch, Mr. T. L., Robert Stephen
                                                                               Harrison, Mr. Thomas E., his draw
son's letter from Alexandria to,                                                   ings of the High-Level bridge over
   ii. 245                                                                     --tahned
Graham, Mr., surveyor to the Alex                                                        Tyne  at Newcastle,                        ii. 117   ii.
                                                                                          the  Royal Border                         bridge,

    andria and Cairo Railway,                                    by ii.  179,      140

note                                                                           Harrison, Mr. Joseph, in Egypt, ii.

Grand Junction Canal, rights and                                                   179, note
                                                                         the
privileges of the, reserved                                                    H--awetrehcotrsn,theRofibrsetrt,ballast engine on
                                                                               --thheisbainntkims aocf ythewTityhneG, eorge Ste
London and Birmingham Railway                                                                  i.
                                                                                                    9,
--Atcetm, por1a9r6y railway bridge overi.
                                                                                                            i.
   the canal removed by the Canal                                                                               6
                                                                                                                     i.
                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                   phenson,            23
                                                                               Hayter, Sir William, testimonial to,
   Company's engineers, 198, 199                                                  ii. 156
-- the Canal Company restrained by
                            i.
                                i.
--ththee  Master of the Rolls, 200                                             H----enrgdeofeudrsmseosont,hGeeAornrgtnoe,  i.
           bowstring girder bridge over                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                               i.
                                                                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                             Stephenson,
the, at Weedon, ii. 47                                                                                                     Robert Stephenson,
Grand Junction Railway, projection
    and execution of the, 239
                  i.                                                           --H----enhhhdeeeerrrrscemhoaaanrrrl,ayrciFatlaeigfnree,n, yto, Geo. Stephenson,i. i.
                                                                                                          5 5 i.
Grand Trunk Railway Company of
--Ciatsnaedxat,enfot ramnadtiiomnpoortfanthcee,,                 ii. 193                                     4
                                                                  ii. 194
Great Eastern ship, Mr. Brunel's, ii.
                                                                                 i.
                                                                                     5

    244                                                                        --  her death,      i.  15
                                                                               --
Great George Street, offices of Ro                                                 Robert Stephenson's                              visits to her
   bert Stephenson's friends at                                                    grave, ii. 244
   No. 24, ii. 246                                                             Hertford and Ware branch railway,

Great Western Railway Company,                                                     Robert Stephenson's small bridge
   report of Mr. Brunel on the                                                     on the, ii. 294
   question of guage, ii. 269
                                                                               Hetton Colliery Railway, begun and
Great Western Railway, Mr. Brunel                                                  finished by George Stephenson,
                                                                                                                                                         i.

   appointed engineer of the, 238                                                  49
-- proposal with respect to in 1833,
                                                                 it            High-Level bridge at Newcastle-on-
                                                                     i.

-- defeat of the first bill, ii.                                 2             --  Tyne, ii. 113                           bridge,  ii.  113
                                                                                    object of the

316 INDEX.

                              HIQ                                                                              JAC
                                                                                                               --continued
--H--igrhtah-evLienaveneoclifebtrnhidtegleoTwy--n-leceo,vneitili.nu1be1dr3idge, ii.  --Hudhsiosn,paMrrt.   G.                     of                                   the
                                                                                                          in   the formation

    113                                                                              --  Railway    Clearing House,          ii. 16
                                                                                                       vice-chairman          of the
-- early proposals for a high-level                                                       becomes

----brfMiodrrg.meGa, triieio.enn1'1s4osfchetmhee,  ii. 114                              Hij;h-Level Bridge Company, ii.
                                                   Iligh-Level                       -- consulted by Lord G. Bentinck
             Company, ii. 114
             up by the promoters                                                        as to railway works in Ireland, ii.

--  Bridge                                         of the                                132
      taken
                                                                                     Hull docks, Robert Stephenson's
    Newcastle and Berwick Railway,                                                      consultation with Smeaton about
    ii. 116
                                                                                         the, 254
--                               bill, ii. 117     ii.
--                               drawings, ii.                        i.
--                                                                               i.
--
--                                                                                                ' i.
--                                                                                                                           i.
    passing of the                                                                   Huskisson, Mr., his inspection of the
    Mr. Harrison's                                                                       Liverpool and Manchester Rail
                                                   117

    description of the bridge, ii. 117                                               --whaiys  in 1829,            156
    the piers, ii. 118,                                                                          death         the following
    the iron superstructure,                                                                                                      year,
                                                   ii. 119                               159

    contract for the building, 124                                                   Hutchinson, Mr., the oracle,' 139
-- erection and completion of the
   bridge, ii. 127
                                                                                     'IJL.LtUurSeToRfAtTheEDtroubNlesEWcoSns,e'qupenict -
Hill, Mr. (now Sir) Rowland, at the
   Royal Society Club.ii. 252                                                           on the break of gauge laid before
                                                                                        the parliamentary committee, ii. 27
Hinde, Mr. John Hodgson, his pro                                                     Institute of Civil Engineers, Robert
   motion of the Newcastle High-
   Level bridge, ii. 114
Hindmarsh, Elizabeth, second wife                                                        Stephenson elected to the presi
                                                                                         dential chair of the, ii. 231
--omf Gaerroiregde   Stephenson,
                    to George Stephenson,
                                                   i.                                Ireland, state between Dublin andof,
                                                       3                                                     i.
                                                                  i.

    50                                                                                  Cork in     1823,          62
Hodges, Mr. James, his descrip                                                       -- famine        in,      in 1846,
                                                                                                                             ii.      131--

    tion of the Victoria bridge over                                                 --13L4ord George Bentinck's proposal
    the river St. Lawrence, ii. 190, note
Ilodgkinson, Mr. Eaton, his evidence                                                     to ameliorate
                                                                                                               it,  ii. 131

--onhisiroenxpreariilmweanyts    structures, ii. 58                                  Iron, cast,    results    of   exdpifefreimreennttsmioxn
                                   for the Britannia                                    different   kinds      and

   bridge, ii. 85, 90                                                                    tures of, ii. 126
-- his death, ii. 265                                                                --I--roncwaBrsotruidigrgohents.foirroSneae,rchBiterssid, gpieir.osp,3e6irrtoiens
Holyhead trunk road, construction
    of, by Telford, ii. 74, 76                                                                                                                                         as
Holyhead, importance of the port of,
                                                                                         distinguished from those of cast
                                                                                     --irpoonw, er
--ii.de7c4ided on as the point of depari. i.                                                        37              iron     to resist
   ture for Ireland, ii. 78i.                                                                       of wrought
                          i.                                                             tension as compared with that of
Honda, scenery of the road from              i. i.                                       cast iron, ii. 87
                                                                          ii.        Iron girders, different varieties of,
   Mariquita to, 83                                                                     ii. 46, 47
Howick, Lord, his motion for a                                                       Iron ships, instance of the strength
    committee to examine the merit
                                                                                       of the hulls of, ii. 298
   of the atmospheric system, 331
Hudson, Mr. George, chairman of the

   Newcastle and Darlington Rail

----wphariyes,sildeeas2d5in1agt  characteristics,  252                               JACKRoSbOerNt ,StIseapahecn, stohne's  clockmaker,
                                  the Newcastle    and
                                                                                         241                                  visit to, ii.

    Darlington Railway banquet at                                                    Jackson, William, one of the con
                                                                                         tractors for building the Victoria
--Nceownctraasstteled,    257                      Stephen                               viaduct over the St Lawrence, ii.
                        with Robert

    son, 261                                                                             187,209

                                                              INDEX.                                                                             317

                      JAM

James, Messrs., their locomotive                                                   Leake, General, his death, ii. 252
   boiler tubes, i. 51, 52                                                         Lean, Mr. Charles, 205
Jamieson, Professor, takes Robert                                                                   i.
   Stephenson with him on a geo                                                                                  i.
   logical tour, i. 56
                                                                                                                                   i.
Jesmond Vale, i. 13                                                                Lecount, Lieut., his comparison of
                                                                                      the London and Birmingham Rail
                                                                                      way with the Great Pyramid, 209

                                                                                   Lee, Mr. F. R., accompanies Robert
                                                                                      Stephenson to Egypt, ii. 174
                                                                                   Leeds, locomotive coal carriage to,
K--AcFbormFidRpgleeEtoevd-erAbtZyheZANMYirl.Ae,TRii.ou1t7su4eb,ulaiir.                in 1758, 265

                                                                                   Leeds and Bradford Railway, open
                                                                                      ing of the, ii. 129
                                                                                   Leicester and. Swannington Railway,
    244
                                                                                   --i. i. 155                                  of the line, 164
Keefer, Mr. Thomas C, his survey                                                          commencement                          to the town of
                                                                                   -- its advantages                                           i.
   for a bridge across the St. Law                                                                                                                     a
   rence, ii. 199                                                                         Leicester, 165
Kell, Mr., his description of Robert                                                           I.

                                                                                                    i.
                                                                                                         i.
--SjtoeipnhsensRoonberatt  sea, ii. 172                                            Leopold             of Belgium and the two
                            Stephenson
                                                          on                    a  --Stceopnhfeernssonths,e                    220
                                                                                                                           Order of
yachting excursion, ii. 241                                                                                                             Leopold    on
Keogh, Judge, ii. 242
Kingstown and Dalkey Railway, trial                                                       George and Robert Stephenson,
   of the atmospheric system on the,
   i. 310, 338                                                                            220, 221
Killingworth, George Stephenson                                                    -- creates Robert Stephenson

                                                                                      Knight of the Order of Leopold,
                                                                                          253

----bracapokpleloiseimnrtyaendexaeptnl,ogis.iino1en0-,win1r,i3glh. t52at, i. 3     Leslie, Professor, his testimonial to            i.
                                                                                      Robert Stephenson, 57, 59

                                                                                   Leviathan ship, Mr. Brunel's, ii. 244
Killingworth Railway, trial of the I Liddell family, their seat of Ravens-
'Rocket' on the, i. 140                                                                   worth Castle, 14
                                                                                   Liddell, the Hon. H. T., M.P., hisi. i.
--Kilscboyst  tunnel, i. 200  expended                    upon                        statement respecting George Stei.
                and labour

it,           201 phenson, 257, 258
   i.
               i.                                                                  Lime-quarries at Stanhope, 215
                                                                                                                                         i.

LA GUAYRA, appearance of the                                                       Liverpool, George Stephenson's ac
                                                                                   --coitusnttraodf,e
--thtReoowbcneorntosf,trSutec7pti7hoennsoonf's                                                          75                      Ireland  by direct

                                                                                                       with

                                                 report on                         --stReoabmeerrts,    ii. 74                      as to the water
                                                breakwater                                            Stephenson
                                              a                                           supply of, ii. 139
before the harbour of, 78                       i.
                                                      i.
      his advice as to the construc                                                Liverpool and Manchester Railway,
tion of pier, 79                                                                      failure of the Act for making the,
              a
                       a i.
and of                       railway between                                                 95
                                                                                            George
                                                                                     i.
                                                                                               i.

                                                                                                                    i.
                                                                                                                      i.
                                                                                                                           i.
La Guayra and Caraccas, 80, 81                                                     Ill,--                                               superinten
Laiug, Mr., consulted by Lord George                                                                   Stephenson                        112
                                                                                          dent of the line,
Bentinck as to railway works in                                                    Ill-- cause of the defeat of its bill in
Ireland, ii. 132
Lardner, Dr., his attack upon the                                                  ------18pmth2aae5sg,slniinnitgeudoaeft  the bill, 112
   Stephensons in the 'Edinburgh                                                                                           Chat Moss, 112          for
                                                                                                                            of the excavations
--Rreevfiuetwa,t'ion  174, note 179
'                     of his accusations
        i.                    ;                               by                   --tthhee,!qu1e1s5tion of locomotives verms

                                  i.
   Mr. Charles Lawrence, 179
-- his simple rules' on railways,                                                         stationary engines under consider
                                                              i.
    288                                         of the                             i.--arteiopno,rt   117 et seq.                    Walker        and
                                                                                         i. i.
-- before the committees                                                                              of Messrs.

   House, 288 i.                                                                      Rastrick,                             122
Lea river, iron bridge over the, at                                                -- premium                              offered
                                                                                                                                    for the  best  lo

Tottenham, ii. 48                                                                         comotive,                        124

318 INDEX.

                       I, IV                                                                                            ton
                   Manch. Railway--cont.                                                     --Locothmeoatdivoepsti--oncoonftisntuaetdionary engines
L--iveGre,oragned  Stephenson's account of
    Mr. Huakisson's inspection of the                                                             in preference to locomotives recom
------liwnoMeopr,re.kni.Hinou1fgs5ck6ooifsnsstohtrneuclkitniinleleg,dti,.he1i.5li71n5e9 com  --mpernedmediu, mi.
                                                                                                                  123             for the  best  lo
                                                                                                                  offered

    pared with that of the London and                                                        ----co'cmobnaosttittvlreeu,cotfiio. nt1h2eo4flocthoemo'tiRvoec,'kei.t,1' 3i8.

--BMirmesisnrsg.haWma, lki.er187and Rastrick's                                                   139

                                                                                             -- its trial on the Killingworth Rail
    report on the comparative merits                                                         --wcaoym, pi.ar1i4so0n between the evapo
                                                                                                rative capability of the 'Rocket'
    of the locomotive and stationary
--etnhgeinelocsyosmteomti,vei.
                                  294                             through                         and Stepnenson's patent engines
                                  adopted                                                    --oaf r1r8iv4a9l,  1.141
    the persistency of George Stephen                                                                           of the
    son, i. 295                                                                                                         ' Rocket  '  at      Liver

Locke, William, George Stephenson's                                                          --ptohoel,  i. 141   at Rainhill,
    letter to, i. 59                                                                                     contest
                                                                                                                                     i.    141
                                                                                             -- the four engines engaged for the
Locke, Mr. Joseph, puhlishes, in con
    jsuonnc, tio' nObswerivtahtionRsobeornt                                                  --cotnrituemst,phi. o14f 2t,he143' Rocket,' i. 143,
                                                                   Stephen
                                                                  the Com

    parative Merits of Locomotive and                                                        ----14hM4irs.toHryedolef ytheWy'blalams'ts-pipmee,'thoi.d14o4f
--FhixisedkiEnndgniensess,t'o     i. 151,                                                    ----l'eGMPtuteeifsnofsgirrngsg.eofSfBWttiehlapleylhk,e'ewnrasi.ostne1a's4n5dstmeaoRmdae,sti.irnic1kt4h'4se
                                  George                          295
                                                                    Stephen
--socno,nsi.tr1u5c2ts the Great Junction

--  Railway, i. 239    to         the  atmospheric
     his opposition
----shyhsiissteemdviisdloeikfnecperoofponuirloisrnioonnb,rriadi.iglw3es3a,2y
                                                                                                  report on stationary engines as
                                                                              ii. 52                            with locomotives, i. 150
                                                                              struc          --   compared      Stephenson and Joseph
                                                                                                   Robert

--tuhriess,asisi.ist5a8nce in raising the tubes                                              .--  Locke's answer, i. 151
--ohfisthdeeBatrhit,aniin. ia265bridge, ii. 98                                               --    prices of engines in 1830, i. 154
                                                                                                   Robert Stephenson's opposition
                                                                                                 to the use of locomotives in towns,
----LocoGSmteeooerltgeiev'se, s,i.STt2er4ep,vhei2tn5hsiocnk''ss,  i. 24                      --i.B2le29nkinsop's patent locomotives
                                                                   first,     i.             --fothr ecolaolcocmarortiaivgee  to  Leeds, i.
                                                                                                                                  compared   264
--3t2rial of locomotives on the Stock                                                                                         as             with,

    ton and Darlington line,                                      i. 11 1                        the stationary engine system, i. 294.
     state of the locomotive                                       in 1828,
--                                                                                           --  See Railways                     over stationary
                                                                                                  their advantages
    i. 116
-- guestion of locomotives vermis sta                                                            engines asatpresent acknowledged,
                                                                                             i. 360
                                                                                             Logan, Mr. W. E., his description of
--tiRonoabreyrt   engines, i. 117,                                118         at             the phenomena of the packing and
                      Stephenson's                                 efforts                   piling of the ice of the river St.
                                                                                             Lawrence, ii. 196
--imthperomvuelmtiteunbtu, lai.r  114, 117, 118
                                  boiler and steam-

--bflaasilturoef  the  'Rocket,' i. 118, 119                                                 London and Birmingham Railway,
                  of   the bent boiler-tubes,                                                   original project for constructing;
                                                                                                the, i. 166
   i. 120                                                                                    -- George and Robert Stephenson

-- Messrs. Walker and Rastrick's

    reports on the advantages and                                                               employed to make the surveys and
    disadvantages of the locomotive
                                                                                             --pltahnes,agir.ee1m66ent signed by the Com
--  system, i.     122            of         1829                             could
    what the       locomotive                                                                   pany and the two Stephensons,
                                                                                                L 167, note
    accomplish, i. 122

                                                        INDEX.                                                                                                                                                       319

                           LON                                                                                                                                           MAT
L--------ondtto'hh.IpneepvaLonveosdasintrtidiiBgoooianunntsnotors.a'unsRtrdhvae'epBiylawislri,mnmaepy1i,n.h--gi1l.eh6ct1a8o,6,mn9ti1i.n6uB19e7idl0l
                                                                                                                                                     Lond. and    Birm. Railway-- continued
                                                                                                                                                     -- report    of Robert Stephenson on
                                                                                                                                                         the question of gauge, ii. 272
                                                                                                                                                     London and Blackwall Railway,
                                                                                                                                                         Robert Stephenson appointed en
   contest, i. 172                                                                                                                                       gineer of the, i. 228
-- the bill rejected by the Lords,
                                                                                                                                                     London and Brighton, various pro-
--i.p1u7b8lic meeting at the Thatched                                                                                                                    P osed lines of railway between, i.
                                                                                                                                                     --2  21, 222
----HpaoapuspssoeiningTtamovfeetnrhnte,   i. 179                                                                                                          Captain  Alderson's                report,            i. 225
                                         bill, i. 180,
                                         of Robert       184, 185                                                                                    London and Colchester Railway, Mr.
                                                        Stephen                                                                                          Braithwaite appointed engineer of
--somnaagsnistouldeeenogfinetehreinucnhdieerft,a1k.in18g1,                                                                                               the, i. 238

   i. 187                                                                                                                                            London and Southampton Railway,
                                                                                                                                                        Mr. i Francis Giles lays down the,
-- Robert Stephenson's plans of                                                                                                                          i. 238
   every part of the entire line, i. 188,
                                                                                                                                                     London Spring Water Company Bill,
--18th9e staff of assistant and sub-                                                                                                                    ii. 146
                                                                                                                                                     Longridge, Mr. Michael, Robert Ste

--astshiestandtraweninggineeorfsf,icei.  190            Eyre                                                                                             phenson's letters to, i. 57, 61, 62,
                                         at the                                                                                                      --7j3o,in7s5,th9e4,fi1rm01,of12R1ob; eirit.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              155
Arms Hotel, i. 191                                                                                                                                                                                            Stephen
-- list of the contracts and con                                                                                                                     --sotanke&s  Co.  i. 65
--trcaocsttoorsf,thi.e1P9r2imrose Hill tunnels,                                                                                                                   the  management
                                                                                                                                                                                                         during the
                                                                                                                                                         absence of Robert Stephenson in
                                                                                                                                                         South America, i. 100
   i. 194
                                                                                                                                                     Losh, Mr., his kindness to George
-- and of the Blisworth cutting,                                                                                                                                                             ; ii. 181
                                                                                                                                                                                             George
   i. 194                                                                                                                                            --Stheipshernuspotnu, rei.  32, 33                              Ste
-- mishaps at the Wolverton em
                                                                                                                                                                                 with

--bavnekxmaetinotu, s      i. 195        to     the     Com                                                                                              phenson, i. 65
                           opposition
--padenfye,ati.
                 195       the           Grand          Junction                                                                                     MACRLoyEaAl RSo,cieStyir     Thomas, at                         the
                 of                                                                                                                                                              Club, ii. 252

--Ccaonsat l  Company, i. 200                           upon                                                                                         Magnay, Messrs., Robert Stephen
              and labour expended

   the Kilsby tunnel, i. 201                                                                                                                             son's paper-drying machine for, i.
-- of Lord Southampton,
                                                                                                                                                     --Manabccyo,mMparn.ieCsharRleosb,erint              France, i. 26
     ofjrjosition                                                                                                                                                                                          Stephenson
-- the stationary engines and ropes
                                                                                                                                                         on a visit to the North, ii. 281
   at Euston Square and Camden                                                                                                                       Manchester and Leeds Railway,

   Town, i. 208                                                                                                                                          George Stephenson appointed en
                                                                                                                                                         gineer of the, i. 239
-- the London and Birmingham                                                                                                                         Maps, English Government, ii. 147
   Railway compared with the Great
                            i. 209
----PyRorpoaebmneiirndtg,  of the line,  i.     210                                                                                                  Mariquita, the mines and minera-
                           Stephenson's         anger
                                                        with                                                                                         --  logical wealth of, i. 82
                                                                                                                                                          Robert Stephenson's
   one of the directors, i. 211                                                                                                                                                                          visit  to, i.

-- the electric telegraph used on the                                                                                                                --8e2ffects of earthquakes, stagnation

London and Birmingham line,                                                                                                                             of trade, and disturbed politics on

--i.p2ro35posal with respect to the                                                                                                                  ----thtroheaedtotwwfroonm, wi,.ett8o3seHaosnodnsa,   i.  83
   London terminus in 1833, ii. 2                                                                                                                                                                        at,  i. 96
--- defeated by the Great Western
            ii. 11                                                                                                                                   Marochetti, Baron, his statue of Ro
--linthee,  bowstring                    girder bridge over                                                                                              bert Stephenson, ii. 267
the Grand Junction Canal at
                                                                                                                                                     May, Mr. Charles, his evidence on
                                                                                                                                                         iron railway structures, ii. 58
Weedon, ii. 47

320 INDEX.

                         MEC                                                                                      NOB

Mechanical skill,Robert Stephenson's                                                    Stephenson's connection with the,
   admiration ii. 232, 233                                                              ii. 175, 176
                       of,                                                           Newca8tle-on-Tyne,the Stephensons
                         i.                                                          --oHf,awthorn's locomotive factory at,

                                                 i.
Mediterranean, its level compared
   with that of the Red Sea, 240;
   ii. 149, 151                                                                      L
Memorial, the Stephenson,                                               at Wil-          6 i.

                                                                                                   1

                                                                                                      i.
   lington Quay, 10                                                                  -- the road from Newcastle to Kil-
Menu Straits, width of the water
   way in the strait, ii. 74                                                         --  lingworth, 13           of                         the firm     of
                                                                                          establishment
 -- interruptions of the traffic between
.                                                                                    ----RetohaberelyrtLdiitSfeftirecapurhlyteinessoannodf  &   Co. at, 65i. L
                                                                                                                                            the works, 76-
--Evnagrliaonuds  and Ireland at the, ii. 75
                                                                                                                                              Philosophical
                  schemes for                 roadway
                       ii.
--aGcroovssernthmee, nt                a75                                           --  Society of,        97,i.    note
                         survey                                                           the grand   central        railway
                                           aunder                           Mr.                                                                station,

   Rennie, ii. 75                                                                    --oapcecnoedunbt yofththee  Queen, ii. 139
-- his four designs for bridge over                                                                              High-Level bridge
   the straits, ii. 75                                                               --aRt,obiie. rt11S3tephenson's donation to
-- Mr. Telford's survey of the roads                                                     the Philosophical and Literary In
                                                                                         stitution, ii.
   and straits, ii. 75, 76                                                                and to the

   his bridge over the, 77
                       a                                                             --                      235
                                          ii.                                                                Wellington
-- rejection of Robert Stephenson's                                                      Schools, ii. 235                                      Memorial-
   proposal for bridge of two arches
   over the straits, ii. 81                                                          -- divine service at Newcastle on.
-- the bill for constructing the Bri                                                     the day of the funeral of Robert
----tlacanoymniniapglebtroiiofdngteheapnafdsirssetodp,setionin.ien8,g4                   Stephenson, ii. 265
                                                                        ii. 89       Newcastle and Berwick Railway, ii.
                                                                          of    the
   bridge, ii. 100                                                                   --1p1r6o,m1o2te9rs take up the High-Level
Metropolitan Burials Bill, discussion                                                   bridge, ii. 116
   on the, ii. 146
Montreal, grand banquet given to                                                     Newcastle and Carlisle Railway,                                      i.

   Robert Stephenson at, ii. 181                                                         112, 117
                                                                                     Newcastle and Darlington Railway
Montreal and Kingston Railway,                                                       --boilplepnainssgedo,f
   construction of the, ii. 192                                                                                 253
                                                                                                             the line,
Moorsom, Captain (afterwards Ad                                                                            i.                                  152, 257
   miral), his confidence in Robert                                                                               i.

                                                                                                                          i.
                                                                                     New York, Robert Stephenson's
                                                                                        opinion of the people of, l. 109
                                                                                     Niagara, Falls of, 109
    Stephenson,        i.C2,03h,is  204
                                     soundings
Morton, Mr. A.                                                                  of   Nicholson, Mr., his opposition to the
   the river St. Lawrence, ii. 198
Minories, iron bridge over the, ii. 48                                                   atmospheric system of propulsion,

                                                                                     i.  332

Multitubular locomotive boilers of                                                   Nile, Robert Stephenson's iron bridge
----MTinrr.eldoHgceoonmldry'ostiBvaoeccooethunn,gtineqs5u, 2ote1d1, 8,                  over the Damietta branch of ther
                              i.                                            119
                                    i.                                      128,     --iit.h6e9great railway pontoon on the,
                                            i.                                       --iit.h1e7K4affre-Azzayat tubular bridge

--ntohtee 'Rocket' the first locomotive
   with multitubular boiler, 144
   a                                                                    i.               over the,  ii. 174
                                                                                          Robert    Stephenson's
                                                                                     --                                                        description,

llVTASMYTH, Mr., his steam pile-                                                         of the two tubular bridges over
       driver, ii. 125                                                               --tthhee,ii.Ka1f7f7re-Azzayat viaduct, iL-
Navvies, the army of, employed on
   the London andBirmingham Rail                                                         244

                                                                                     Nixon, Charles, of Walbottle col

   way, 201, 205                                                                        liery, 69
Neath Abbey works,                                                                   Norfolk Estuary Company, their dis

                                                                                        pute with the Eau Brink Commis
   i.                               70
                        i.

                                                                  i.
                                                                       ii.
Nene Valley Drainage and Navigation
   Improvement Committee, Robert
                                                                                         sioners,     137

                                                   INDEX.                                                             321

                              NOR                                                             EAI
             Estuary Company--cont.
Norfolk      works, ii. 137                                           Peto, Samuel Morton, one of the
-- their                                                                contractors for building the Victo

North Midland Railway, George                                          ria viaduct over the St. Lawrence,
    Stephenson appointed engineer of                                   ii. 187, 209
    part of the, i. 239                                             Phillips, Richard, teaches mineralo-
--Norrwaailyw,ayvisfitrotmo,
                              ii. ii.     130      to the               gical chemistry to Robert Ste
                                     Christiania
                                                                        phenson, 72
    Myren Lake constructed, ii. 130                                 --Phipleptst,e-rMfrr.omG.GHeo.,rgei.
Nubar Bey visits London, ii. 174                                                             i.         139, 148
                                                                                                            i.Stephensonto,
                                                                                                                        a,
                                                                                                                      i.
                                                                        concerning the blast-pipe, 148
                                                                    Pier at La Guayra, Robert Stephen
              RIVER,                      viaduct  over                 son advises the construction of
OGWtheE,Nii.
              79                                                        79

Ordnance maps, Robert Stephenson's                                  Piers of the Victoria bridge over the
   speech on the, 147                                                  St. Lawrence, ii. 217, 221
Orme's Head, Great and Little, ii.
                                                                    Pile-driver, Nasmyth's steam, ii. 125
    78                                                              Pim, Mr. James, his advocacy of the
'Our Club,' ii. 230
                                                                        atmospheric system,                 309

                                                                         obtains a trial for            on the Kings
Oxford and Wolverhampton Railway                                    --                        i.

                                                                                                   it

                                                                                                       i.
                                                                                                                  i.
    bills, ii. 10                                                       town and Dalkey Railway, 310
                                                                    Pinkus, Mr. Henry, his patent atmo
                                                                        spheric
PAINE, Tom, his cast-iron bridge,                                   Plymouth,    tubes,  J.   301                 chain
                                                                                  Mr.         M. Rendel's

--   ii. 34,  35, 233                                                   ferry-boat at, ii. 174
    Robert      Stephenson's                                        Pneumatic system. See Atmosphe
                                          restoration                  ric system of railway propulsion

--  of this bridge,           ii.    70, 71
    description of                   ii. 234
                              it,                                   Pontop and South Shields Railway
Palmerston, Viscount, his speech on                                    bill  passed, 250, 252
   the Suez Canal scheme, u. 148   i.                               -- its   subsequent success,
                                                                                 i.                         253
                                                                                               of

                                                                                                    i.
Panama, Isthmus of, Robert Ste                                      Portland, the terminus the Grand
                                                                        Trunk Railway of Canada at the
    phenson's desire to visit the,                 i. i.                harbour of, ii.

    102                                                             --  inconveniences        192, 193
                                                                                                which may arise
Papin, Denys, his notion of the at                                      some future time, ii. 193                     at
   mospheric system of propulsion,
                                                                    Powell, Rev. Baden, his death, ii.
    299

Paris and St. Germain Railway, trial                                    252

    of the atmospheric system on the,                               Preston, Mr., surveyor to the Alex
                                                                        andria and Cairo Railway, ii. 179,
        351
i.
      &
                 i.
Parker, Mr. Charles, 206                                                note
Pease, Mr. Edward, George Stephen
   son's first interview with, 53                                   Primrose Hill tunnel, difficulties of
-- joins the firm of Robert Stephen
                                              i.                    --  making the,    i.     193  cost  of,  i.  194
                                                          i.             contract price       and
                                                                  <'                       '
    son Co., 65                                                      Prince of Wales iron steam-vessel,
Tease, Mr. Joseph, his recollections of                                accident to the, ii. 298, note
    George and Robert Stephenson,
                                                                    Pringle, Mr., in Egypt, ii. 179, note
    54                                                               Puffing Billy,' the, 145, 146
                                                                                              L

Peel, Sir Robert, at the opening of                        Pym, Captain, his paper on the Suez
   the Liverpool and Mjinchester                              Canal question, ii. 250

    Railway, 157
     his support of
--       i.                          the  atmospheric
               i.
    plan, 310                                                                            and  Richmond      Railway,
Penmaen Bach and Penmaen Mawr,                                                                the, ii. 192
    railway through the, ii. 79                                     QUEfoBrmECation of

Percy, Dr., Robert Stephenson's                                     T) AILWAY between Caraccas and
    visits to, ii. 250
                                                                    Iw La Guayra, Robert Stephenson's
Perkins's engine, George Stephen                                       report on the proposed, 80, 81
   son's criticism on, referred to, f6t2"
                                                   i,

                                                                                                         L

VOL. II.

                                            INDEX.

                        KAI                           --RailRwoabyesrt--Sctoenpthineunesdon's presidential

Railway contractors in 1833, i. 189,                      address, i. 281
                                                      -- great number of Acts regarding
193                                                   --ravailswtaeyxsp, ein.se2s81of obtaining permis

Railway, the Commercial Road,i. 228                       sion from Parliament to construct
Railway Society, tlie, i. 240
--Railiwn aByeslgivuemrs,usi.C2o2a0ches, i. 170, 171
-- railway enterprise in England in                      railways, i. 283
                                                      ----RpoabreliratmSetenptaherynsbona'rsristreerms eadnyd,i.th2e8i4r
    1836, 1*37, i. 221

-- establishment of the railway sys

--termai,lwia. y2s38undertaken in various di          --evneonrmaloiutys   fees, i. 285, 286            of
--retchtieonse, ngi.in2e3er8s engaged on the                              of the testimony                  some

   great lines, i. 238                                of the engineers in the committee
-- the Great Western and Mr. Brunei,                                of the House, i. 287
                                                      --roDomr. s  Lardner's 'simple rules'                      on

--i.th2e38London and Southampton and                  --rarialwilawyasy,  i. 288                        in Great
                                                                           development
   Mr. Francis Giles, i. 238                              Britain as compared with that of
-- the London and Colchester and                          other countries, i. 289
   Mr.                                                --
-- the  Braithwaite,         i. 238   hands    of     --  Mr. Bridge Adams's          work, i. 290
        various lines         in the                      ruinous contests of         rival lines, i.

   George Stephenson, i. 239                              290
-- the Pontop and South Shields
            i. 252, 253                               -- proposal for railway farmers, i.
             Newcastle
--linthee,                   and    Darlington            291

                                                      -- history of the atmospheric system
--linheis,toi.ry251o,f                                    of railway traction, i.
                        252, 256  progress     and    --   Robert Stephenson's          292                 op
                        railway                                                         constant
                                                                          i.
                                                                             it,
                                                                                 i.
   railway legislation, i. 203                        ----rpactoohislnrwiestaeitoaynnstm,toodriev2sa9l3royf'29blo3ectwomeeontiolnocoumpoon
-- the first Act of Parliament autho
rising the construction of a railwav,

--i.   264    Surrey    Iron  Railway Com                 tive and stationary steam power,
      the                                                                                               i.
                                                                                                                     i.
--ptaanbyl,e  i. 264          Acts  passed     from       293
              of Railway
                                                      -- Messrs. Walker and Rastrick's

    1801     to 1840, i. 264, 265          i.  266    --  rweiptohrtstoantioloncaormy oetnivgeinsesa,s  compared
            railway mania of 1844,                                                                         294
-- the
-- amount of capital assigned by Acts
of Parliament in 1844, 1845, and                          Robert Stephenson and Joseph
                                                          Locke's tract on the lecomotive
    1846 to railway enterprise, i. 267
                                                          system,         i.  295
                                                           first trial
--    corrupt legislation,    i. 268                  --                      of the  atmospheric           sys
      the peer, his park,     and compensa
--                                                        tem on the Birmingham, Bristol,

   tion, i. 269                                           and Thames Junction Railway,                            i.

-- resolution of Parliament, i. 273                       303
-- the three periods of railway ma                    -- Robert Stephenson's report and
   nia, i. 272                                            comparison between the atmo
-- the bubble companies of 1836, i.                       spheric and stationary engine and

--27th4e ten-and-sixpenny capitalists,                   locomotive           systems,        316 et seq.
                                                      -- interest of          the public      in the atmo
                                                                                      i.
                                                                                          i.
    i. 276                                            --  spheric question,           329
-- parliamentary votes sold for gold                       the railway mania          of
                                                                                              1845,     1 i. i.  330
--beyxtBorrittiiosnhs   senators, i. 277,             -- results of the various trials made
                        of all classes of  278
                                           societv,   --  of tho atmospheric system, 350
                                                      --   the battle the gauges, ii.
   i. 278                                                 Brunel's theory of railway districts,of

-- national benefits of railways, i.

                                                         ii.
                                                      -- the first actual 'break of gauge,'
--2a7m9_icable co-operation of members                    ii.
                                                             98
   of Parliament in 1845, i. 280

                                                        INDEX.

                                    KAI                                                             KOS

--Railtwhea,ysOx--focrodntiannuded Wolverhampton                     the platform of suspension bridges,
                                                                    ii. 292
--rifvaaillursechoemf eBsr,uniie.l'1s0 theory of rail
                                                                 Rendel, Mr. J. M., his chain ferry
                                                                     boat at Plymouth, ii. 174
--waeystadbislitsrhicmtse, niti.                                 Rennie, Sir John, his                   proposed rail
                                       11  the  Railway             way betweenLondon                     and Brighton,

                                       of

--CtlaebalreingofHtohuesel,iniei.s         16                        i. 222
                                            completed,           -- appointed to survey "the Menai
                                                        in
progress, and projected, in 1845, ii.
                                                                 --  Straits, ii.  75                    for  a bridge, ii.
    24                                                                his four     designs

-- history of the Chester and Holy                                   75
head Railway, and of the designs
for the Britannia and Conway tu                                  -- appointed one of the engineers-in-
--bfualtaarl  bridges, ii. 285                                      chief to the Norfolk Estuary Com
              accident to the                   ·                    pany, ii. 139
                                                                 Richardson, Mr. Thomas, joins the
                                              bridge    over         firm of Robert Stephenson & Co.j

--theengDienee,eriiin. g48interest attached to                       i. 65, 67
   the Chester and Holyhead Rail                                 -- one of the projectors of the Co
----wcaooyupr,esneiii.nog7f8                                     --lohmisbiainnterMeisnt ining      Association, i. 67
                              this  line,   ii. 78, 79                                              Robert Stephen
                              of    the    Newcastle             --soSnt'esphweenslfoanr'es ,       i. 134
--DaanrldingotfontheRaNilwewayc,asitil.e                and                                         letters

                                                115                                                           to  him,               i. 135,
                                                  and
                                                        Ber          137, 151
    wick and Trent Valley Railways,
   ii. 129                                                       Riviere du Loup, terminus of the
-- construction of the Christiania                                  Grand Trunk Railway of Canada
                                                                     at, ii. 193
   and Myren Lake Railway, ii. 130
-- the Alexandria and Cairo Rail                                 Robertson, Mr., his opinion of the
                                                                     cause of the Dee bridge accident,
--  way, ii. 173                                                     ii. 52
      journey on                                                 Robinson, Rev. Dr., his support of
                                    a  North    American

--  railway, ii. 180                                                 the principle of atmospheric pro- ·
--            engine, ii. 180                                        pulsion, i. 332
    a Bogie                                                      Robson, Captain, his intimacy with
    Robert     Stephenson's                     speech  on

    railway legislation in England, ii.                          ----GhheiiossrgfaiercmcSotueanptthKeionllsfinongG,-ewoori.grot2h7,    i. 27
                                                                                                                                     Stephen
--1t8h2e first railway efforts in Canada,                        --'--Rsoofccanoki'nlseustr,ste'rauftechottefiyo,-ntliah.meo1fp1ft,8ihr,sie.t12e2bn77og-i1line3er0,, ,i.in.o1t13e398,
--ii.th1e82Atlantic and St. Lawrence
--Roatihlwerayli,neisi.
-- formation                  183                                --14it0s trial on the Killingworth
                              in Canada, ii. 183

                              of the Grand Trunk
                               Canada, ii.
--  Railway of                Brunei and      193                ----Rstahhileiwppacoyen,dtetiso.t  140
     reports of                               Stephenson                                            Liverpool, i.
    on the question of gauge, ii. 269,
                                                                                                     at Rainhill,                    141
    272                                                                                                                              i. 141
                                                                 -- particulars of the ' Rocket,' i. 142,
Rastrick, Mr., his cast-iron girders at
   the British Museum, ii. 44
-- his evidence on iron railway struc                            --  143     '   Rocket'            proclaimed the win
                                                                      the
   tures, ii. 58
                                                                 -- nethr,e  i.   144               of tho         ' Rocket,'
                                                                                 blast-pipe
Ravensworth, Lord, his kindness to                                   i. 144
    George Stephenson, ii. 143
Ravensworth Castle, i. 14                                        Roebuck, Mr., his motion respecting
Red Sea, its level compared with                                    the Suez Canal, ii. 150
    that of the Mediterranean, i. 240 ;                          Roman bridges, ii. 32
    ii. 149, 151                                                 Ross, Mr. Alexander, co-engineor of

Rendel, Mr., his mode of trussing                                    the Victoria                   (St. Lawrence)                   bridge,
    for the prevention of oscillation of                             ii. 179, 180,                   187

                                                              2

324 INDEX.

                           BOB                                                          S--amMurd.aJ,aMcoebssrsS.a--mucdonat'isnueevdidence be

----Rosshe,xisaMmerin.ngeAsin.e--ethrcieonngtvinaaubreiilodituiess,pioii.n1t9s9 of         fore the House of Commons Com

    crossing proposed for the Victoria                                                  mittee, 331
                                                                                        Sandars, Mr. Joseph, 164i.
--  bridge, ii. 200                            counsel                                  Sanders, Mr., of Liverpool, 75i. i.
     visits England and takes                                                           Sanderson, Miss Fanny, 132           i.
    with Robert Stephenson,                  ii. 200                                    -- her marriage to Robert Stepheni.
                                                                                                                                    i.

-- returns to Canada and prepares a                                                         son, 137
    report to the Railway Commis
   sioners, ii. 201                                                                     --  her personal        appearance,  i.         137
-- constructs the Victoria bridge,                                                      --  her death,          255
                                               ii.                                      Sanderson, Mr. John, and the crack-

    244                                                                                     brained projectors, ii. 109
Roidlin, Dr., visits Robert Stephen
   son at Santa Ana,                    92                                              -- his death,  i. ii.   186
Rouse, Mr. Henry
«                                      J., in Egypt,                                    Santa Ana, Robert Stephenson at
                  a                                                                                                  84
                                                                                        --thheismdienesscriopft,ion
                                     i.                                                                              of
--iia. n1d79t,henotKeaffre-Azzayat viaduct                                                                               the scenery         of,

    over the Nile, ii. 244                                                              i.   85
                                                                                        --  the
                                                                                                 Cornish        miners at,         87, 88
Royal Society, Robert Stephenson                                                        --                               i.
   elected fellow of, ii. 137                                                           --                                    i.        91

                                                                                                                                 i.
Royal Society Club, Robert Stephen                                                          Stephenson's cottage         at,
   son at the dinners of the, ii. 230                                                       his departure from,           100

-- Robert Stephenson's last visit to                                                    Santa Fi5 de Bogota, state of the road
                                                                                            to, in 1825, 81, 82
                                                                                                       i.

   the, ii. 252                 Egypt,         ii. 179,                                 Serpentine,      Robert            Stephenson's
Rushton, Mr., in                                                                            speech on  the state         of the, ii. 152

     note                                                                               Severn, iron     bridges          over the, ii.
Russell,
             Lord John, Robert                 Ste                                          33,34                        speech and
                                                                                        Sibthorp, Colonel, his
   phenson's remark             on, ii. 144    Long                                        motion against the            proposal            for
Butter, Tommy, his               school at                                                 the Great Exhibition           of 1851,            ii.

   Benton, 19, 20

-- Robert Stephenson a pupil there,
-                                                                                           146

       i. i.                                                                            Smeaton, his atmospheric engine at
                       i.
       20                                                                                 Long Benton, 12
                                                                                        -- his consultation with Robert Ste
Ryle, Robert Stephenson's visits to,
                                                                                          phenson about the Hull Docks,
        19                                                                                            i.                                i.
                                                                                                               i.
SAFaEccToYun-tLAoMf GPe,orCgaeptSateinphReonbsosno'ns,'s                                    254                                              i.

                                                                                        Smith, Lieut. -Col. Sir F., his favour
                                                                                            able report on the atmospheric

       27i.                                                                             --  system,      310         Gauge Commission,
                                                                                              on the  Royal
-- the safety-lamps of Dr. Clanny,
    Sir Humphry Davy, and George                                                           ii. 11
   Stephenson, i. 37                                                                    Smyth, Professor P., his observa
Said Pacha, viceroy of Egypt,                                                       in
                                                                                           tions at TenerifFe, ii. 172
    Abyssinia, ii. 247                                                                  Snibston collieries, purchase of the,

-- his letter to Robert Stephenson,                                                         164
                                             i.                                         Sopwith, Mr., accompanies Robert
    ii. 261                                       i. a                                                          to Egypt; ii. 174
Salta Falls, 110                                                                        --Stheipsheanccsoonunt    of the steam ferry
SSaatmlthaeusdhaat,imroMonesspbshrrseid.r^gicet,shyiesi.itre6m7adovof cparcoypuol fi.i. i.                                                      on
                   i.
                                                                                      i.    the Nile, ii. 174
                                                                                                                Lord, his opposition to
   sion, 302                                                                            Southampton,
                                                                                           the London           and Birmingham Rail
-- with Mr. Clegg, lay down short
                                                    303                                    way, 206                      application              of
--lintreialofoaf tmthoespirhesryicstemtu,bes,  303                                      South Devon Railway,
                                                                                            the atmospheric system to the,

-- their calculation of the expense of                                                         346
    atmospheric tubes and engines per                                                   Southwark iron bridge, ii. 36
                                                                                        Stanhope and Tyne Railway, 215
    milo, 324
            l.

                                                                                                                                INDEX.                                                                325

                                                              STA                                                                                                           SIE
                  and Tyne Railway--eont.
--StanRhoobpeert                                                                                                                      --StepShteenpshoenn,sonGeorgaepp--oincotnetdinueedngine-
                   Stephenson appointed en                                                                                               wrignt of the Killingworth col
                  i. 217
--gicnreiseirs,   in the                                      affairs         of  the Com                                                       liery, 30
                                                                                                                                                 his first locomotive
                                                                                                                                                 his engagement at
--  pany,        i. 245                                                 the       difficulty,                                         --                i. i. i.                      engine, 32 i. i.
     plan        for meeting                                                                                                          --                         i. i.
                                                                                                                                                                                       the Walker
--i.d2is4s8olution of the Company, i.                                                                                                           iron works,
                                                                                                                                      --         sends his                  33    to  Mr.    Bruce's
                                                                                                                                                                         son

--2r4e8formed under the name of the                                                                                                   ---- siccnhovnoeotenl,sttionb3e4towfeheins  safety-lamp,          37
                                                                                                                                                                                  Sir H. Davy         and
    ·Pontop and South Shields Railway
    Company, i. 251
Stanton, Mr. Philip, i. 248                                                                                                           --        Stephenson,                 37        trial
                                                                                                                                                                         foolhardy               of   his
Stanton, Mr. J. H., in Egypt,                                                                                                                   story of his

    note                                                '                                                                       179,  --        lamp, 38
                                                          i.                                                                                     testimonial
                                                                                                                                                                         and      public     dinner to
                                                             i. i. i. i.
Steam coaches, 115                                                  22                                                                   him          for his        invention,              39
Steele, John, his intimacy with                                          i. i.                                                        -- his          speech         in returning            thanks,
                                                                               i.                                                                                                     i.
---- GhneioostrigdceeeatSohtf,ehphise2nc6saornee, r,                                  2                                                                                                              i. i.
                                                                                     i. ii.23                                         --4h0is attempts to learn grammar,
                                                                               23-25                                                  --4h1i,snnootetion of the amount of edu

Stephensons, the, of Newcastle,                                                                                                 1

------Stephshhtiiessrnusmccokhanir,lbrdilaringeOend,,,ld      Robert,'                                                                --        cation necessary                  for his son,   i. 43
                                                               16                                                                                his sun-dial at                   the West      Moor
                                                                                                                                                cottage, 44
                                                                                                                                                lays down
                                                                                                                                      --                i.               and          completes       the
                                                                                                                                                          i. i. i.
Stephenson, George, his parentage,                                                                                                    --        Hetton Colliery Railway, 49a                 i. i.
                                                                                                                                      --         his increasing prosperity, 49                        i.
--  i. i.32his early life,                                    i.                                                                                 marries Elizabeth Hindmarsh,
--          i.learns the art                                      3

                                                                    of  shoe-cobbling,                                                --5b0uilds the Friar's Goose pumping

-- becomes brakesman at the Dolly3                                                                                                    --        engine,              51  colliery speculation,
   Pit,                                                                                                                                          embarks             in

-- his acquaintance with Elizabeth                      9 i.  i. 3                                                                    --i. i. i.  51    first        visit        to  Mr.    Edward
--Hwinodoms arAsnh,n Henderson in vain,                                                                                                         his

i.         3,                                                                                                                         --        Pease,         53        engineer-in-ehief              of
--            4                                                                                                                                  engaged        as
--
--  marries Fanny Henderson,                                                                                            i.                      the Stockton and Darlington Rail
--  goes to Wellington Quay,                                                                                               5
    first sets up housekeeping,
    applies himself to the work                                                                                       i.                 way, 53
                                                                                                                         6            -- puts his son's name on the map of

                                                                                                                        i.               the Stockton and Darlington line,
                                                                                                                            6

                                                                                                                                of

--seblifr-tehduocfahtiiosns,on Robert,                              7                                                                        55

--                                                                                i.                                                  -- sends Robert to Edinburgh Uni
--                                                                                    7
--
    the christening festivities,                                                                                                                versity, 55
    his wife's delicate health,                                                                                                                  his letter to
    beginning of his intimacy                                                                                           i.            --                i. i.
                                                                                                                            7                                          i.

                                                                                  i.                                                                                     his          friend William
                                                                                     8

                                                                                                                              with    ----Lghooicseksec,rtioticIri5se9mlanodn,

--Rloebarenrst   Hawthorn,                                          i.  9                                                                                                             61
                 clock-mending                                                                                                                                                    Perkins's
                                                                              and                                       clock-                                                               engine,

----------clrhdrgeeeeoiasmtaenutsoichrnvnogtetos,otsafMtgotehooitnshtKtherwieolrlisWefiene,e,,gswt o111M3r55,toho1,r4,i.              --          62
                                                                                                                                      --
                                                                    i. i. l.                                          i. i. i.10                his rupture with Mr. Losh,                   i.    64
                                                                                                                               16               succeeds in establishing the                      i.loco
                                                                                                                                          motive engine factory of Robert

                                                                                                                                          Stephenson                    Co., 65
                                                                                                                                           Iris engine               for drawing
                                                                                                                                      --                  i.                                 coals at
                                                                                                                                                               &
--  his dislike of 'artificials,'                                                                                                                                       i.
--  his early friends, 23                                                                                                 17          --Sgwivaensseah, is            70
--  Captain Robson's account                                        i.                                                of Ste                                         reluctant        consent         to

                                                                                                                                          Robert's journey to Colombia,
                                                                                                                                          70
phenson's safety-lamp, 27
                                                                              i.

.120 INDEX.

                           STE                                                                      STE
S--tepthaekenssonl,eavGeeoorfgeh--is
                                      continued                       ----Stepahhfifseenctshtoiiornnd,atmeGaerroiargrgeeel--aatinocdonndsteinautheb,detiiw. e1e35n

                                       son at Liver

--phoiosl,  i. 75               letter to Mr.                         George and Robert Stephenson, ii.
            entertaining
                       i.
--Leomnpglroiydegde,       75                    to                   ----1ht3hi6se  father's wealth, ii.                              136
                      as   engineer-in-chief                                         political opinions                                and

the Liverpool and Manchester                                                            ii. 142                                                                                                                                       sym
--Rhaisilwdaiyfi,icui.lti1e1s1,1at12Chat Moss, i.                                      of his first
                                                                      --pgaathuigees,                public                            railway,
                                                                         ii. 3 -
--1r1e2turn of his son to England, i.                                 -- his chest of drawers in the cot
                                                                         tage at Long Benton, ii. 239
--1t1h3e multitubular boiler, i. 119-                                 SiEPnExsoN, Robert, his birth, i. 7
                                                                      -- his earliest recollections of his
126
-- his letter to Mr. Phippa on his
   exhausting pipe, i. 148                                               father, i. 8
-- Joseph Locke's kindness to George                                  -- memorial of his father's tender

--SGteeporhgeensoSnte, pih. e1n5s2on's  account of                    ----nhdeiesssa,tahi.u9onft  his mother, i. 15                                                                                                                   at
Mr. Iluskisson's inspection of the                                                                 Eleanor housekeeper
                                                                      --WhiesstvisMitosotro,      i. 17
Liverpool and Manchester Rail                                                                     his relations                        scattered

----wpoaupryec,hnaii.nseg15o6offtthhoeSlinnieb,stio. n15c7ollieries,  --asbeonutt     the country, i. 18                               school at
                                                                                     to Tommy Kutter's
                                                                         Long Benton, l. 20
--i.em16p4loyed with his son to make                                  -- goes gleaning with hia aunt
                                                                          Eleanor, i. 21
the surveys and plans for the                                         --
                                                                      --  his first    commissions,                                    i. 29                                                                                          in
London and. Birmingham Railway,                                           sent to       Mr. Bruce's                                      school,

--i.th1o66agreement entered into, i. 167,                             --  Newcastle, i.           34                                                                at this
                                                                           his personal            appearance
                                                                      ------------tihhhhthmhiiiiisssssreo,ddfwfwraeoioiitel.nnihrcnkgk3aede4trey'atsJhnoadenhhnoendhataaimlobmtTnhulaamss,tceeeikma.r,b,se3iin.r5tidot.3,,64h2iiis..
    note                                                                                                                                                                                                                              36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      42
-- accompanies his son to Brussels,                                                                                                                                                                                                   edu
   i. 220

-- his reception by the Belgians, i.

    220

-- decorated with the Order of Leo

   pold, i. 220                                                       -------- chlslaeettiaasoiovrrnnedys,sraoFiswf.crhiehn4ion3sgoclheo,lefaicn.atdr4si3cuiansl-dkaiiaptlep,,reii.n. t44ic44ed
-- the various railways on his hands                                  ----thohiissMhram. redNaiwlcshooraklatasnthdWecoaor'dTe,hfureil.ee4co6nToumnsy,,'

--inhis18c3o9l,liei.ri2e3s9at Clay Cross, i. 240
-- present at the dinner given to his

   son at tho Albion, i. 242
-- and at the banquet on the open

   ing of the Newcastle and Darling
--toernroRneaoiluwsays,tatie.m2e5n8t of Mr.Liddell
                                                                      ------i.lih4neias8trhcniesrcmKumiullsifneicrg,ewin.ot5or0rt,hi.
--reinsspteacntcineg   him,   i. 258    thought  and                                                                                   48
                      of his  quick                                                                                                    mine

--charise   for his own interests, i. 260                             --aancceoxmpploasniioesn,   i. 52                                                             during
            trial of both tho locomotive                                                          and assists

and stationary steam-power sys                                                                                                         his                          father
                                                                          in surveying the Stockton and
--tehmiss,peir.s2is9te4nt defence of the loco                         ------DhhhaiiissrslindvneaigslmtiicoteantteopRuLhatoeilnwatdolatohynt,,h, ie.ii..5m55433a,,p
                                                                                                                                                                    54
   motive system, i. 295                                                                                                                                            54
-- his iron railway bridges on the
                                                                                                                                                                     of
ManchesterandLiverpoolIiailway,                                                                                                                                                                                                       the

ii. 45                                                                    Stockton and Darlington line, i. 55

                                                                INDEX.                                                                                                                                                         827

                            SEE                                                                                     STE

--Stephhisensreosni,denRcoebeinrt  -- continued                 of                              --S------tepbthvhhiuiesseinilitdstreorsdentha,artcbemoaRytteotsanb,Mgtee.iro.tBfa8--ott9huScesaomsnni,tntaingiu.aAeun9dl0at ,
                                   the university

--Eadcicnobmupragnhi,es i.  55                     Jamieson                                                                                                                                                                    i. 91
                            Professor                                                                                                                                                                                          and

--oPnroafegsesoolorgicLaelsliee'xscutresisotnim, oni.ia5l,6 i.                                  Dr. Roullin, i. 92
                                                                                                -- his correspondents in England,
    57, 59
                                                                                                    i. 93
-- his letters to Mr. Michael Long-
                                                                                                -- convinced of the visionary nature
    ridge, i. 57, 61, 62, 73, 75, 94, 101,                                                         of the enterprise at which he was

--1c2o1mmencement of his friendship                                                             --------------atwlbhssgeaheoiiatssiechilvhpsaseeeiwlnsmsufhcropeeelrSidtcanoat,Ndkoan,eevttiidC.iawois.ani1rcAt9tY0rnh3e6Paoaa,wnarg,9dknes4a,ni.daamin1,u. da0t1y0,0ic,.i5a.i1.n10n905i52bal

--  with George      Parker Bidder, i. 60
     accompanies      his father to Ireland,

--i.be6c1omes a partner and prominent
    engineer in the firm of Robert
                       & Co., i.
--Sateskpehdenstoon  accompany                     65    expedi
                                                    the

    tion of the Colombian Mining                                                                ----isilmnos,easi.shto1isr0m6enatotmsoelao,giic. a1l 07curiosities

   Association, i. 68                              trip into                                       and his
-- takes a professional                                                                         -- arrives
---- Chooibsrtnalweintatsellrhsiasntdofahothitsheefra'rstphlceaorcn,essie.,n7ti.0,6fo97r4a      -- makes
                                                                                                              money, i. 107                                                                                                    from

                                                                                                               in New York, i. 108
                                                                                                              a pedestrian excursion
                                                                                                Ill------NshpeaiowsilssiotYipfoooinnrrkioEonnftogholiafMsnCofdaan,tntharieed. ara,la, tii.t.h11is1008time,
--  voyage to Colombia,                            i. 70         i.                             Ill--i.his report to the Colombian di
     his preparations for                          the voyage,

-- his coining press and paper-drying

    machine, i. 71

-- takes lessons in mineralogical

----ctthaaekkemessislttehraeyv,ecio. ao7cf2hhtios  Liverpool, i. 74                             ----rehhciitssortesrfifpoinrttsoLoaBntrduiomsnspe, rliso.,v1iin.1g411t4he loco
                                                   father there, i.

    75                                                                                          ---- mhhoiisstivmreeos, didie.esn1c1oe4f ,iinn1c1rN7e,eaws1i1cn8agsttlhee,  i. 116
                                                                                                                                                                            heat
-- sets apart 300/. per annum for his
------fsalhaatinhsildesrresf,opariot. rS7tLo6aaugtaGhinuAsatmyretahr,eicia.c,o7n8i.st7ru6ction  --  ing surface of  his boilers,         i. 118                                                                                to
                                                                                                     trial of his   new boiler           made
    of a breakwater before the harbour
    of La Guayra, L 78                                                                          --bpurmemcioukme,  i. 121    offered                                        by the
     advises the building                                                                                          of 500/.

--                                                 of a pier     in                                 Liverpool and Manchester Railway
                                                                                                --foRrotbheertbesSt telopchoemnsootnive,rei.ce1i2ve4s a
--  the harbour,       i.   79                           between                                    sketch of the multitubular boiler
     difficulties    of     a railway
    Caraccas and La Guayra, i. 80, 81
-- goestoSantaFedeBogota,i.81,82                                                                   from his   father, i. 126
-- examines the mines at Mariquita,                                                             -- account      given by Robert                                                                                                Ste

    i. 82                                                                                       --phheisnsoloncotmo Motri.veSmthilees,'  i. 126, note
                                                                                                                                         Rocket,' i.
-- compelled to leave the heavier
                                                                                                --  118, 127-130,   note                 in 1828,
 Iportion of his machinery behind,                                                                   business on    his hands
       84
-- commences working for ore, i. 84                                                             --  1829, i.   130       Fanny           Sanderson,
-- his letters to his stepmother,                                                                     offers  to Miss

    i.   85,-93                                                                                     i. 133
        saves a drowning man, i.
--                                                                                              -- his first house at Greenfield Place,
--      his difficulties with the
                                                         86                                     --  Newcastle, i.   134      to          Mr.                                                                                   Rich
                                                         Cornish                                     his letter of  defence

    miners at Santa Ana, i. 87, 88                                                                  ardson, i. 135

                                                     INDEX.

                 STE                                                                         S--tephhiesnspounp, ilsR, oib. e1r8t2--, 1c8o3ntinued
                                                                                             -- stupendous nature of the task
S--tepnhiesnsmona,rriaRgoe,beir.t--137continued
--  his wedding trip, i.             138                                                         undertaken by him in making the
--  failure of the first             boiler      of  the                                        London and Birmingham Railway,
                                                                                                 i. 187
   <Rocket,' i. 139, 140                                                                     -- health and habits of life, i. 187
                                                                                             -- his mode of checking the work
-- his discovery of the right method,

   i. 140        of the    ' Rocket'             on the
-- the trial
   Killingworth Railway,                 i.  140                                                of the contractors, i. 189
-- arrival of the ' Rocket               '                                                   -- his staff of assistant and sub-
                                             in Liver
                                                                                                 assistant engineers, i. 190
----potthhoele,  i. 141                      i. 141
                                              the win                                        -- his difficulties with the Primrose
                 contest at Rainhill,                                                          Hill tunnel, i. 193
                 ' Rocket ' proclaimed
                                                                                             -- accidents at the Wolverton em
----nhetirrs,iutoim.ryp1h4o4afnttherebtluarsnt-ptoipeN,eiw. c1a4s4tle,
                                                                                                 bankment, i. 195
--i.   150                           on  the     Com
      his 'Observations                                                                      -- his temporary bridge over the
    parative Merits of Locomotive and                                                           Grand Junction Canal, i. 198

                                                                                             -- the Kilsbv tunnel, i. 200
                                                                                             -- his interview with Dr. Arnold at

   Fixed Engines,' i. 151                                                                    --  Rugby, i. 202         the  Kilsby tunnel,
-- his letters to Mr. Richardson,                                                                 difficulties with

   i. 151                                                                                       i. 202 et seq.
-- his numerous engagements, i. 152                                                          -- his suggestion of the advisability
-- at the opening of the Liverpool                                                               of carrying the line into London,

   and Manchester Railway, i.                    158                                         --  i. 206
-- appointed engineer to the                                                                 --
                                                 War                                             snubbed for his proposal, i. 207
                                                                                                 completion of his work, i. 210
    rington and Leicester and Swan-                                                          -- opening of the London and Bir
--nibnegctoomnesRaailwmaeymsb, eri.  164
                                     of the      Insti                                       --  mingham Railway, i.         210     i.
                                                                                                  insult offered to his     father,
    tute of Civil Engineers, i. 165                                                          --                                          210
                                                                                             --
-- employed, with his father,                to make                                             his anger, i. 211               given   to
                                             for the                                             dinner and testimonial
    the surveys and plans                                                                        him at the Dun Cow, at Dun-
    London and Birmingham Railwav,
                                                                                                church, i. 211
   i. 166                                                                                    -- appointed consulting engineer to
-- the agreement entered into, i. 167,
                                                                                                the London and Birmingham, i.
------nohhotpeiisspotcshrirtoeisoesn-esxutaormvetihnysea,tioliinn. e1,6i8b.,e1f1o66r9e9 the      212
                                                                                             -- his system of drawing used by
                                                                                                Brunel for the Great Western,

    Lords' Committee, i. 173-176,                                                               i. 213
                                                                                             -- his occupations during the pro
    note                                 bill through
                                                                                                gress of the London and Birming
-- hisexertionstogetthe
                                                                                                ham line, i. 214
   Parliament, i. 177                                                                        -- his connection with the Stanhope
-- his mortification at the rejection
   of the bill, i. 178                                                                          and Tyne Railway, i. 215
-- kindness of" the chairman of the                                                          -- accompanies his father to Bel

    committee, Lord Wharncliffe, i.                                                          --gdiuemco,rai.te2d20with the Order of Leo

--  178          of the    London            and Bir                                         --potaldke, si.  221
                 bill, i.  180                                                                                offices
       passing                                                                                                         in  Duke  Street  and
      mingham
-- appointed sole engineer-in-chief                                                              Great George Street, Westminster,

      of the line, i.181, 185                                                                   i. 221
-- leaves          Newcastle-on-Tyne,                  and                                   -- projects, and becomes engineer of,
                 house on Haverstock
    takes a                                          Hill,                                      a line from London to Brighton,

   i. 181                                                                                       i. 221 et seq.
                                                                                             -- his and Gibbs's lines rejected by
-- his evening parties at Greenfield
      Place, i. 182                                                                              Capt. Aldcrson, i. 226

                                                                      INDEX.                                                       329

                           STE                                                                           STF,

--Stepdheefnesnodns,  Robert -- continued                                     --Steprheemnosovnes,   Robert -- continued
                      his views in a pamphlet,                                                       to Cambridge Square,
    i. 226                                                                    ----i.rfie2rev59ieinw
-- appointed engineer of the Lon
          and Blackwall                                               i. 228                         his new   residence,     i.  259
--  don    opposition to         Railway,                             loco                             of his  position      at   forty
     his                        the use of                                                 of age,
                                                                              --yehaisrs             i.   260
                                                                                          advocacy       of the
   motives in towns, i. 229                                                   --rahiilswapyresbiodaerndtiaolf           creation   of   a
-- his evidence on the subject before
    a House of Commons' committee,                                                                             enquiry,      i. 280
                                                                                                               address       in 1856,

--  i. 229, note      Haverstock     Hill,                            i. 231  --i.h2is81conscientious evidence before
--   his life at
--
--  his political convictions, i. 232                                         --  parliamentary committees, i. 287
    Mrs. Stephenson, i. 232, 233                                                   his opposition to the atmospheric
    his Newcastle correspondence,                                             --syhsitsemp,arit.
                                                                                                     293,  332          in
    i. 233                                                                                                 tract            favour     of
-- Mrs. Stephenson's accident to her                                                                 in a

-----knhheiiesscamapdo,ostplt.iino2nt3im4oaf tethefrieenledsc,trici.              the locomotive and against the
                                                                                  stationary engine system, i.
                                                                      236     --   his attention called to the                    295
                                                                      tele                                                        atmo

----grvaasispsihut,ms eit.she2a3rCm5osn, tiin. e2n3t7, i. 239                     spheric system in reference to the
-- his intimacy with Mons. Talabot,                                               Chester and Holyhead Railway,

                                                                              -- his report to the Chester and

   i. 240                                                                     --  Holyhead directors, i. 316
-- their survey of the Isthmus of                                             --   his friendship for Brunei, ii. 2
                                                                                   his character as a parliamentary
             i. 240                                                               witness, ii. 20
--  Suez,   immersion      in     business    on his                          --   his examination                  by  the  Gauge
     his
                                                                                                               ii. 21
--rectounrtnrahcotomres,'  i. 240       and din                               --  Commissioners,               Brunel's     loose  box
                           testimonial                                             his remarks on
    ner at the Albion Tavern, i. 241,
                                                                              --syhsitsemob, jeiic.ti2o2ns to the double gauge
--  242     arbitration in                                                    --syhsitsemh,istiio.ry23o, f29the Britannia and
     his                             disputes                         be
                                                                      the
    tween the contractors and

--  companies, i.          241, 242           i. 243,                         --  Conway tubular bridges,                   ii. 285
     his letters                                                                   his small bridge on the                  Hertford
                           to Mr. Cook,
                                                                                 and Ware            Branch Railway, ii.
--  245,  249              to   the  affairs  of the                          -- services            rendered him by               294
     his  anxiety as                                                                                                               Mr.
                                                                                  William Fairbairn and Mr. Eaton
--  Stanhope and Tyne Railway, i. 245                                             Hodgkinson, ii. 299,
     his astonishment at his responsi                                         --   his great practice in            300,    303
    bilities, i.                                                                                                     iron   bridges,
--    appointed       245, 240                                                    ii. 30
                        engineer     to the New                               --
                                                                                 '
    castle and Darlington Railway,                                                  his article on iron bridges in                 the
   i. 253                                                                     --    Encyclopaedia Britannica,' ii.                 31
-- created by the King of the Bel-                                                  accident to his bridge over                    the
gians a Knight of the Order of
                                                                                  Dee at Chester, 48
                                                                                                               ii.
                                                                              -- his description of the defects of
--  Leopold, i. 253                                                               compound girders, ii. 53
--   death of Mrs. Stephenson, i,                                      255    --   his evidence before the Iron                   Rail
     his consultation about the
                                                                      Hull

   Docks, i. 254                                                              --whaiys    Structure        Commission,            ii. 54
-- rejoicings on the opening of the                                                         evidence         before the            royal

    Newcastle and Darlington line,                                                commission on the subject of iron
                                                                                  bridges, ii. 57
--  i. 256                                                                    --   his application
--
    bridge over the Wear, i. 257                                                                               of   wrought-iron
    the public dinner and speeches
                                                                      at          girders for bridge construction,

--Nheiws cCaostnleti,nei.nt2a5l7 engagements, i.                                 ii. 62
                                                                              -- his iron bridge over the Aire,
                                                                                  ii. 68
    259

330 INDEX.

                                STE                                                                                               STE

S--tephheisnsoanp,poRinotbmeernt t--      continued                                           of       S--tepehleencsteodn,    Robert   -- continued                      for
                                          as engineer                                                                        member     of Parliament

the Chester and Holyhead Kail way,                                                                     --Wehleicttbedy,      ii.  134,  135                           vice-
--ii.hi8s0 selection of the site of the                                                                                      to   the   council
                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                       presidency of the Institute of Civil
   Britannia bridge, ii. 80                                                                               Engineers, ii. 185
-- rejection of his proposal of 8                                                                      -- his narrow escape on the Chester
bridge of two arches over the                                                                                                                     ii. 135
--Stthraeitfsi,rsiti.                                                                                  --anddeatHholyohf ehaids   Railway,        135
                        81                                                                                                        father, ii.
                       idea                                                                            -- relations between father and son,
                                of the    tubular                                             com

--bpinaastsiiongn,  ii.         82        authorising                                         the      --ii.po1r3tr6ait of Robert in the posses
                    of
                                the bill                                                                  sion of the Newcastle Literary and
construction of the Britannia

--bhriidsgeex,piei.rim84ents for the designs of                                                        --  Philosophical Society,                 ii. 136
                                                                                                                                  Fellow of        the Royal
                                                                                                           elected
----thhdeiissthurebeaepr,oteritni.itno8g5thdeoudbirtesctoarss,                              ii.           Society, ii. 137
                                                                 ii. 86                                                             a-- his connection with the Nene
                                                                to effi
                                                                                                                                        'Valley Drainage and Navigation
ciency of his proposed work,                                                                                                                        aImprovement Committee, ii. 137,
--ii.la8y8ing of the first stone of the
   Britannia bridge, ii. 89                                                                                                                                          a--i1n3a-8pcpnoieinftedofoneof the engineers-
-- his further experiments for the                                                                                                 the  Norfolk Estuary
                                                                                                                                  ii. 138
--demsaignnufaocftutrhee        tubes, ii. 89                                                          --Ccoomnspualtneyd,        by the Town     Council                 of
-- floating and                 of the tubes, ii.                                                          Liverpool as to the best means of
                                 hoisting them                                                94           supplying the city with water, ii.
                                                                                              up,

--ii.in9v6itation to Mr. Brunel and Mr.                                                                --13h7is,  138             for rest,  ii.  140
                                                                                                                  desire
                                                                                                       -- his character as politician and
Locke to aid in raising the tubes,                                                                         member of the House of Com

   ii. 98                                                                                                 mons, ii. 142
-- completion and opening of the                                                                       -- his Toryism, ii. 143
--brMidr.geS,teiip.he1n0s0on's explanations of                                                         -- his remarks on little Lord John,'

    the peculiarities in the combina                                                                   --ii.hi1s4o4pinions on popular education,
    tions, ii. 104
--   description                of   his  bridge                at                            Con      --ii.hi1s4b4elief in protective principles,

--  way, ii.        110         his  high-level                                               bridge       ii. 145
      account         of
                                                                                                       -- his speech in the House of Com
--athiNseewvcidaesntclee-obne-fToyrenec,omiim. it1t1e3e on                                                 mons on the proposed site of the

------ thpdMeaerss.sscuinrSbigtpjeetpciooth,fenntisohi.ofen1'tsb1hi6ellm,boirit.idivg1e1es7,           --GarnedatonExthheibVitiicotonrioaf   1851, ii. 146
                                                                                                                                             sewer, ii. 146
                                                                                              ii. 117  -- his speech on the Ordnance maps,
                                                                                              for the  --ii.an1d47on the proposal for

    adoption of the bowstring girder,                                                                                                                                     Suez

--ii.er1e2c0ti,on121and completion of the                                                              --  canal,   ii. 149,      151             state               of  the
                                                                                                             his   speech         on the

----jborhiidinsgsew, othirike.  127             ii.                                           129      --  Serpentine, ii. 152               the  House                   of
                                                the                                           Great         his popularity in
                                in 1845, 1846,                                                            Commons, ii. 153
                                Committee of                                                           -- his letter to Admiral Moorsom on
   Exhibition of 1851, ii. 130
-- visits Italy and Norway, 130                                                                            the Crimean mismanagement, ii.
-- liberality of the Government of
   Norway, ii. 130, 131                                                                                --  153,    154                            the invita
-- consulted by Lord G. Bentinck as                                                                         his   reason          for  declining

   to subsidising Irish railways, ii.                                                                      tion of the Newcastle Conserva
                                                                                                          tives, ii. 154
    132                                                                                                -- his dislike of party strife, ii. 155

                                                                                                 INDEX.                                                                          331

                                  STE                                                                                                StE
                                                                                                                              Robert --continued
--Stephhiesnpsoanr,t         Robert -- continued                                                       --Stepdheeantshono, f                                                     Mr.
                             in the testimonial to Sir                                                                        his brother-in-law,
--Wfu.llnHeasysteor,f             ii. 155                                                              --JohhisncoSnannedcetirosnon,wiitih.
                                  his prosperity,                                           ii.  157,                                                          186  Alexander

                                                                                                                                                               Mr.
                                                                                                       --Raorsrasn, giei.m1e8n7ts with the engineers
    166                                                                                                   and contractors of the Victoria
                                                                                                       --vhiaisdufrcet,quiie.n1t87arbitrations between
-- his personal appearance in 1851,
--iih. is15v8isit to the impostor of Soho,
    ii. 158
--   his house               in Gloucester Square,                                               ii.   --rtahilewadyestaialsndofcothnetraVcitcotros,riaii.vi1a8d8uct

--  159
--
     his Sunday                   lunches, ii. 159                                                         worked out in his office in Great
     works of art                 contained in his
                                                                                            house      ----GcceooonmrsgpuellteetSditorneebtyo, fMiit.hr.e18Rv9oiasdsucats,  ii.
                                             death, ii. 160                                                                                                                 to
--  at the time of his                                                                                                                                                           189
      his philosophical                         apparatus and                                                                                                                    the
                                                                                                           bridge over the St. Lawrence, ii.
------ chahoniilssldedcfieetnimuodhneaiassn,l oohsuww.r na1y6inp0rinosfoecGsiseriteoyna,,t  ii. 161    --2t0h0eir report to the Railway Com
                                                                                             ii. 162   --mRisosbioenretrs,SteQphueenbseocn, 'sii.
     Street, ii. 162                                                                                                                                           201          to Ca
     his liberality                                                                          George                                                            visit

--                                       to  professional                                        sub       nada, and letter to the railway

------ ohbhrdeiissicnoaetmrtaeeersnas,itnmgaisei.,nm1tie6iom.2fb1ce6ar4b,mo1e6fn5,theii.                   directors respecting the Victoria

                                                                                            165        --bhriidsgaen,swer20t3o charges of extravaa ii.
                                                                                            Com                    in his design, ii. 210ii.
    mittee for the Exhibition Building                                                                 --  gance    out Mr. Stockman
                                                                                                            sends                                                     and        Mr.
                                                                                                           S. P. Bidder to examine the pro
--oifnt1r8u5s1io, nii.o1f6c5rack-brained projec                                                                    of the work, ii. 226
           on his privacy, ii. 168                                                                     --grheisss  fondness for the periodical
--tohriss   fondness for aquatic
                                                                                            amuse          dinners of learned societies, ii. 230,

----mhMeisnrt.sy,acKihie.tsl,l1'6si9i.,   170                                                          --23e1lected           member of the Royal

     board, ii. 172                       170, 171                                          him  on    --SoocccieutpyieCs lubth, e                          231
                                         account of                                                                                                        Presidential

--                                           ii. 173                                                                                                                        chair
;--  his visit to Egypt,                      construct                                                    of the Institution of Civil Engi
      commissioned to                                                                            the   --nereercse,ivieis.
                                                                                                                              231
     Alexandria and Cairo Railway, ii.                                                                                          the                        honorary degree       of
                                                                                                          D.C.L. of
     173                                                                                               -- the dark            Oxford, ii.                      231
-- his second                                                                                                                 side of his                      prosperity,
-- undertakes                     visit to Egypt, ii. 174                                                                                                                        ii.
                                  the construction of the
                                                                                                       --  232
----Khhaiisfsfrdeeen-Asgczirnziaepyetiaroitnngobfsrtithdaegffeb,irniidi.Egge1y7, 6pii.t,17ii7.             his  admiration                                 of  mechanical   skill,

    179, note                                                                                          ------iihh.hiissi2s3lsa2psd,eto2enc3wha3otriaoktn,  Sunderland, ii. 233
                                                                                                                                                           ii. 234
-- entrusts the designing of the tu                                                                                                                          to the Newcastle
   bular bridges over the Nile to his                                                                     Philosophical and Literary Insti
   cousin, Mr. G. R. Stephenson, ii.                                                                   --tuantidont,oii.th2e35Wellington Memorial

---- 1he7in9sg,atngroieptse  to                                                                           Schools, ii. 235
                              to                                                                       -- his periodical visits to the factory
                                ii.Canada,     180
                                        aconstructthe Victoria
                                               ii.

                                                                                           ii.
                                                                                                       a

                                                                                                            ii.
                                                                                                                                                  a
     viaduct over the St. Lawrence, ii.                                                                --  in Newcastle, ii.                               235
                                                                                                             his considerate                                  conduct
    180                                                                                                                                                                     to   his
                                                                                                       --huhmis blveisriteslattioonst,he
-- his journey on North American                                                                                                                               236
                       ii. 180                                                                                                                                 scenes
--ragirlwanady,       banquet                                                               him                                                                             of   his

                                             given  to                                           at       youth, 237
                                                                                                       -- goes on yachting cruise with
   Montreal, 181                                                                                           few friends, ii. 241
-- his speech on the occasion, ii. 181

332 INDEX.

                           STK                                                                                 SITS

--Stepbheecnosmone,s     Robert -- continued                           Stephenson, James, said to have been
                         a more general reader                            the discoverer of the blast-pipe, i.
---- thhhiiassniinnbcesrfpeoirareas,tinioigin.                             146
                                                243
                                                                  of   Stephenson, Mr. George Robert, de
                                                illness, ii. 243           signs the Benha and Birket-el-

                                                 and regulation
    the labours of younger engineers,
    ii. 244                                                                Saba tubular bridges over the Nile,
                                                                       --iih. is17s9u,penrointetendence of the details
--  his    social engagements, ii. 244                                     of the Victoria viaduct, ii. 230
--  his    trip to Egypt, ii. 244                                 ii.  --  superintends the iron work of                                      the
--  his     letters from Alexandria,

--2h4i5s,  246             in                   the climate       of       superstructure of the Victoria
           delight                                                         bridge over the St. Lawrence, ii.
                  ii. 246
-- Evgisyiptst,  Algiers,                       ii. 247                    209

-- meets the Brunels at Cairo, ii.                                     --S--tephheberencsgoormne,east  Eleanor, i. 16                    i. 16
                                                                                                       disappointment,                   to her
    248
-- his last Christmas dinner there,                                                                        housekeeper
                                                                       ---- bhhreeorrthm'eaarrrtrGiiafeigcoeirag, les,,i.'
----iiah.cist2s4l9aosnt  London season, ii. 249                                                                             i. 16
                         the commission ' To In                                                                             i. 17

                                                                                                                            50

    quire into the Construction of                                     St. Lawrence river, the Victoria tu
                                                                           bular bridge
    Submarine Telegraph Cables,' ii.                                   --   breaking up                over the, ii.               180, 185
                                                                                                        of the ice
--2m50eans suggested by him for ex                                                                                                 on the, ii.
                                                                           185, 186,    196
                                                                       --   detailed    account                             of the Victoria

    tracting an enormous granite sar                                   --  viaduct, ii. 190
   cophagus from a limestone cavity                                         Lake system of
   in Egypt, ii. 250                                                   --inwtointtheer                                      the  waters  flowing
-- present at the annual inspection
--ohfisGlraesetnvwisicith                                 ii. 251                       river, ii. 191                             of    the  St.
                            Observatory,                 Society                         phenomena
                           to the Royal
                                                                           Lawrence, 196
                                                                       St. Margaret's Gardens, Robert Stei. ii.
    Club, ii. 251, 252                                                     phenson's statue for, ii. 267
--  his last will and testament, ii.                         253       Stockman, Mr. B. P., his assistance
--  his last voyage to Norway, ii.                                         in the designs for the railway
--   grand dinner given to him                               254       --bsriedngtestoovCearntahdeaNtiloe,                        ii. 179,
                                                               at                                                                examine    note
    Christiania, ii. 254                                                                                                                     the
-- his speech in returning thanks for
    the toast of his health, ii. 256                                       progress of the Victoria bridge, ii.
                                                                           226
--  his voyage home, ii.
--  his illness on board,                       258                    Stockton and Darlington Railway,
--  lands at Lowestoft,                         ii. 258                Ill Ill--
                                                                           opening of,                         of           locomotives  on,  i.
                                                ii. 259                     employment
-- reaches home, ii. 260
--                       rally, ii. 260                                -- Mr. Dixon's mode of fixing arches
--  temporary            ii. 261                                          on the, ii. 289, note
--  his death,
--  Said Pasha's letter to him, ii. 261
    his funeral in Westminster Abbey,                                  Stokes, Professor, on the deflection of
                                                                           beams under moving loads, ii. 58
    ii. 263                                                            Suez, Isthmus of, surveyed by Robert
-- permission given by the Queen to                                       Stephenson and M. Paulin Talabot,
    pass through Hyde Park, ii. 263                                           240
--  expressions of regret, ii. 265, 266                                i.
--  plate on his coffin lid, ii. 267
--   legend on the monumental brass,                                   Suez Canal, Robert Stephenson's
                                                                           speech on the proposal for,                                 ii. 149
                                                                       --   discussion at the Royal                                    Geogra

    ii. 267                                                                phical Society, ii. 250
-- statue in St. Margaret's Gardens,
ii. 267                                                                Sun-dial constructed by George
                                                                           Stephenson,                         44
-- his report to the London and Bir                                                                    i.
                                                                                                                i.
mingham Railway Company on                                             Surrey Iron Railway Company, in
the question of gauge, ii. 272                                            corporation of the, 265

                                                                       Suspension bridges, ii. 37

                                                         INDEX.                                                  333

                       SUB                                                            VAU

--SuspMern. sioRnenbdreidl'gsesm--odcoentinoufedtrussing          Thompson, Thomas, of Black Caller-

                                                                  --togniv,es George Stephenson his mar
for preventing oscillation in the                                     ' i.
--pTlaetlffoorrmd'sofb, riiid. g2e92over the Menai                        3
                                                                     riage breakfast,       i.
                                                                                                5
                                                                                                      i.
                                                                  Throwing the hammer, 42
Straits, ii. 77                                                      Times printing office, Robert
                                                                  '

Swannington, line from, to Leicester                                 Stephenson's visit to the, 71        i.
                                                                  'Titania' yacht, the, destroyed by
--  begun,   i. 164                                  i.                        ii. 170
    coal in  the neighbourhood                  of,      164      --firteh,e   new Titania,'
                                                                  -- life      on board the,
Swansea, George Stephenson's en                                                                   ii.    170
                                                                                                 ii.    241
   gine for drawing coals at, i. 70                                            '
Swinbourne, Mr., in Egypt, ii. 170,                                                                       i.
                                                                  Trail, Dr., the mineralogist, 75
                                                                  Tramways, mode of laying down col
    note                                                             liery tramways in the North of

Switzerland, Robert Stephenson's
    account of railway progress in, ii.
                                                                     England, 216
                                                                  -- in 1676, ii.
    184                                                                        i.
                                                                                    3

                                                                  Tramways in some of the mineral
                                                                      districts, ii.
                                                                                      4

TALmAacBy OwTi,thMR. obPearutlinS,tephhiesnsionnt,i               Trent Valley Railway, expense of                      *
                                                                     obtaining permission from Parlia-
                                                                      ment to make the, 284
i. 240                                                            --   iron bridges of the, ii. 02i.
-- their survey of the Isthmus of                                 --    opening of the, ii. 166

    Suez, i. 240
Tamar, Mr. Brunel's iron bridge over
   the, ii. 67                                                    Trent, iron triangular framed girder
Tate, John, the early companion                                      bridge over the, ii. 103
                                                         of       Trevithick, Mr., invites John Steele
   Robert Stephenson, i. 36
Tate, Robert, Robert Stephenson's                                 --  to join him,    i.    24
                                                                       the memorable      i.  wager       won  by  his

   visit to, ii. 240                                              --enMgrin. e,Woo2d4's description of thisi.
Telegraph, electric, the commission
                                                                  --enegnicnoeunqteuroetded, by  25
   ' To Inquire into the Construction                                                            Robert
    of Submarine Telegraph Cables,'
    ii. 250 .                                                                                             Stephen

Telford, Thomas, his iron bridge over                             --  son at Carthagena, 105     i. i.
                                                                  --   his peculiarities, 105
-- thaendSeovveernr ,   ii. 34                                         proceeds with Robert Stephenson
                       the Thames  at                                 to New York, 105
                                                Staines,                                 i.

   ii. 35                                                         Tubular constructions, details of the
-- his experiments on the strength                                   tubes of the Victoria bridge over
--ohf iisrobnrisdugsepeonvdeerdthcehaMinesn, aiii.St3r0aits,
                                                                      the river St. Lawrence, ii. 219.
                                                                      See Bridges, iron
                                                                  Tunnels, story of the gentleman who
         30ii.                                                        had conceived passion for, 128,
                  '                                                                      a
-- his Practical Essay on the      i. a                                                           i.
         Strength of Cast Iron,' ii. 44     i.                                                         6
-- his formation of the great Holy                                    note
                                                                                                             i.
           Trunk Road, ii. 74                                     Tyae, the first ballast engine erected
           survey of the road                                         on the banks of the,
--hehaisd                                                from
                            Chester to Holy
         Shrewsbury and     Menai Straits, ii.                 '  "PINION suspension bridge over the
         head, and of the                                               Tweed, construction of the, ii. 38
                                                                     U
--75appointed engineer of the Holy
           roads, ii. 76                                                   i.
--hehaisd  suspension bridge                    over     the         VACU3U4 M engine, Mr. Brown's,

   Menai Straits, ii. 77                                             Vallance, Mr. John, his experiments  i.
-- his proposal for new bridgo at                                       with atmospheric tubes, 301

   Newcastle-on-Tyne, ii. 114                                        Vaughan, Mr., in Egypt, ii. 179,
                                                                         note
Tequindama Falls, 100
Thamos Tunnel in 1828, 115

334 INDEX.

                      VAU                                                         WES

Vauxhall iron bridge, ii. 36                                   Wales, Albert Frince of, his inau
Victoria bridge over the Wear,                                    guration of the Victoria bridge
    Robert Stephenson's, i. 258                                  over the River St Lawrence, ii.
V--ictMorr.iaS(tSetp.hLeanwsorne'snce)spbereidcghe,oini.
                                                          180      227
                                                          the
                                                               Walker and Rastrick, Messrs., their
    bridge, u. 184                                                reports on the advantages and
-- detailed account of this bridge, ii.                           disadvantages of the locomotive

--18a9u,th2o1r6ities consulted,                                    system, 122
                                                                    recommend
                                            ii. 189,           --          i.     the           adoption          of sta
                                                                                        i.
    note                                                       --  tionary engines,                 123
-- point at which it crosses the river                              their report on             stationary
                                                                                                                  engines
                                                                   as compared with locomotives,
--  St. Lawrence, ii. 189,                 216                                                                          a i.
    engineering problems                   to be   solved      --1R5o0bert Stephenson and Joseph

--  in its erection, ii. 195
--  former surveys, ii. 198                                    --Ltohcekier 'sreapnoswrtero, n
--  Mr. Ross's surveys, ii. 199                                                                  151
    report of Robert Stephenson                                                                 the comparative
                                                                                              i.
                                                                                                        i.
                                                          and      merits of the locomotive and sta

    Mr. Ross, ii. 201                                             tionary engine system, 295
-- approval of the plans by the as                             Walker, Mr. James, lays down
    sistant commissioner of Public
                                                                  tramway in the Commercial Road,

--Wvoisrikt s,of  ii. 203  Stephenson                to   the          227i. i.
                   Robert
                                                               -- his examination before the Com
   site of the bridge, ii. 203                                    mittee of the House of Commons,
-- his letter to the directors on the
   subject, ii. 204                                            --     227, note      on the Deo bridge
-- the contracts for the bridge exe                                 his evidence

                                                                   accident, ii. 85
                                                               Walker, on the Tyne, ii. 237
--  cuted, ii. 209                                             Walmsley, Sir Joshua, 164
                           of the iron work                                                                i.
     superintendence
--osfitteheofsuthpeersbtrruidcgtuer,e,ii.  ii. 209             Warrington and Newton Railway,
                                           215                                                                          i.

-- width of the river at this point,                               152, 154
--iil.ev2e16l of the river at different parts
                                                               Waterloo, Robert Stephenson's trip
                                                                   to, 114
                                                                       i.

                                                               Wear, iron arch bridge over the,
                                                                   near    Sunderland, ii.
--obfetdheofytehaer,   ii. 216         216                     --   Tom     Paine's bridge                 34     the,  ii.
                      river, ii.                                                                            over
-- the approaches and piers, ii. 217
--                                                             ----2dR3e3o-bcerript tioSntepohfensoni'is.
    height of the tube, ii. 217             ii. ii.  218               it,                                 234
--  the ice-breaking planes,                                                               it,                 restoration
--  the tubes, ii. 219                                             of ii. 70, 71
-- sketch of the principal operations,
                                                               Wearmouth ferry, iron bridge at, ii.

    ii. 220                                                        34
-- opening of the bridge to the
           i.                                                  Weatherburn, Henry, the engine-
--pduibffliiccu, lties22o7f the work,ii.                          driver of the 'Harvey Combe,' ii.

                                                   227             206
                                                               Wellington, Arthur Duke of, at the
Victoria, Queen, opens the grand
    central railway station at N«w-                                opening of the Liverpool and Man
--chaesrtlee-uxpproenss-Tioynne,ofii.                              chester Railway,                  157
                                        139                         his reception                  the Lancashire
                                       sympathy           on   --          i.
                                                                                             \>y i.
    the death of Robert Stephenson,                                mob, 161
    ii. 263
Victoria sewer, discussion in the                              Wellington Memorial School, in
   House of Commons on the, ii. 146                               Newcastle, Robert Stephenson's
                                                                  donation to the, ii. 235
Vignoles, Mr., his support of the
   principle of atmospheric propul                             Wenham Lake ice, ii. 258
                                                               West Moor colliery, George Stephen
    sion, 332
                                                                   son at,i. 10, 12
-- his evidence on the Dee bridge                              Westminster Abbey, Robert Ste
    accident, ii. 52
                                                                  phenson's funeral in, ii. 203

                                                                  INDEX.                         335

Wharncliffe, Lord, his kindness to                                                                                 YOU

--  Robert Stephenson, i.  178  the                               pro                  Wolsingham, Robert Stephenson's
    presides at a meeting  for                                                            visits to, i. 18
    motion of the London and Bir
                                                                                       Wolverton embankment, accidents
   mingham Railway, i. 179                                                                at the, i. 195
Wheatstone, Professor, his friendship
----fophrriospRoeoslbeeescrttrRicoStbteeeplrehtegnrSastopenhp,h, ei.ni.s2o23n355 as a  Wood, Mr. Nicholas, his account of
   member of the Royal Society, ii.                                                       George Stephenson's experiment

    231                                                                                --wRiothbehrtisSsteapfehetyn-sloanmpa,ppi.re3n8ticed to

-- at the Roval Society Club, ii.                                                         him, i. 46
                                                                                       Woods, Mr. Edward, his particulars
    252
                                                                                          respecting the atmospheric system,
Whinstone in the Snibston collieries,                                                      i. 340, 341
                                                                                       Wye, Mr. Brunel's iron bridge over
    i. 164                                                                                the, ii. 67
                                                                                        Wylam Railway, the memorable ex
Wigham, Anthony, his farm, i. 14                                                           periments on the, i. 31
-- his intimacy with George Stephen                                                    Wylam, Mr. Hedley's mode of letting
                                                                                           oft' the waste steam in his engines,
--  son,  i. 26  at  Long Benton,  i.                             26                       i. 144
     his  farm                                                                         -- Robert Stephenson's last visit to,
Wild, Mr. Charles Heard, his evi                                                           ii. 240
    dence on iron bridges, ii. 58
Willington Quay, Hawthorn's bal                                                        YACHTS, Robert Stephenson's, ii.
----latGhseteoerngSgetienpSehteepanths,oenni.so6nMeamt, oi.ria6l
                                                                  at, i. ,               1 170, 171
                                                                                       York and North Midland Railway,
    10
                                                                                           George Stephenson appointed en
"Willis, Professor, his paper on the                                                       gineer of the, i. 239
    deflection of beams under moving                                                   Young, the Hon. John, and the
                                                                                           Victoria bridge over the St.
   loads, ii. 58                                                                           Lawrence, ii. 180
Willow Bridge colliery, George                                                         -- his suggestion in 1846 for a bridge
                                                                                           over the river, ii. 198
   Stephenson embarks in the, i.

    51

                                                                       THE END

                     


