Passages from the life of a philosopher. By Charles Babbage.

Babbage, Charles, 1791-1871.
London, Longman, Green, Longman, Roberts, & Green, 1864.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015016761390

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
rarATWRIGHT DUNNING"^

                  BEQUEST

 UNIVERSITY of MICHIGAN

          GENERAL LIBRARY
?'
PA
              PASSAGES

                                                            FROM

THE LIFE OF A PHILOSOPHER.
lONDON: PRINTKD BY W. CtOWSS AND SONS, CTAMFOHD struct and charino cross.
                                                                                                                       B. H. Babbagc. del.

   Impression from a woodcut ot a small portion of Mr. Babbage's Difference
Engine No. 1, the property of Government, at present deposited in the Museum

at South KensingtonIt. was commenced 1823.

                             This portion put together 1833.
                             The construction abandoned 1842.
                              This plate was printed June, 1853.
                              This portion was in the Exhibition 1862.
   /

/
               PASSAGES

                                                                              FROM

THE LIFE OF A PHILOSOPHER.

                                                                                 BY

       CHARLES BABBAGE, ESQ., M.A.,

                       F.R.S., F.B.S.E., F.R.A.S., F. 6TAT. 8., hOn. M.R.I.A., M.C.P.8.,

COMMANDER OF THE ITALIAN ORDER OF ST. MAURICE AND ST. LAZARUS,

        INST. IMP. (ACAD. MORAl.) PARIS CORR.,ACAD. AMeR. ART, eT SC. ROSTON,ReG. OCCONR. ORUSS.,
                   PHYS. HIST. NAT. GeNkV., ACAD. ReG. MONAC, HAFN., MA863l., eT DIVION., 80CIUS.

ACAD. IMP. ET RkG. PRTROP., NeAP., RRUX., PATAV., GeORG. PlORKN, lYNCEI ROM., Ml'T., PhILOMATH.
                                                                  PARIS, BOC.CORR., RTC

            " I'm a philosopher. Confound them all-

              Birds, beasts, and men; but no, not womankind."-- Don Juan.

" I now gave my mind to philosophy : the great object of my ambition was to make out a
chcteoaarmlvmuepminlenrateytecioeanisvnyedsdtomefmfirsaorlmleopftrhteehisnveeegnrsuyt.naitovionIennerss.teew,ahWdioncholhiuflaedscinoegtunhngeataengntderaudncecoinemd,mipgerynenihctygoerunerdoaainftggeawmnotehrokneyt,sootrneaigrntindha,etacuphanpeuilvasaeerutrss,s,eecI,,onswwosahemsiqcehueeexnvpIceoenssshe,wodaeunnltddot
so far as to
Oyster" deciphered by  the aid  of photography  in  the  shell  of  a philosopher  of  that  race,-- recently

scolloped.

                              LONDON :

LONGMAN, GREEN, LONGMAN, ROBERTS, & GREEN.

                                                        1864.

                                                  [The right of Translation is reserved.]
1

       DEDICATION.

TO VICTOK EMMANUEL H., KING OF ITALY.

SlBE,  In dedicating this volume to your Majesty,  I am also
doing
       an act of justice to the memory of your     illustrious

father.

   In 1840, the King, Charles Albert, invited the learned of
Italy to assemble in his capital. At the request of her most

Igifted Analyst, brought with me the drawings and explana

tions of the Analytical Engine. These were thoroughly
examined and their truth acknowledged by Italy's choicest

sons.

  ITo the King, your father, am indebted for the first public

and official acknowledgment of this invention.

  I am happy in thus expressing my deep sense of that obli

gation to his son, the Sovereign of united Italy, the country

of Archimedes and of Galileo.

       I am, Sire,

       With the highest respect,
                  Your Majesty's faithful Servant,

       CHAKLES BABBAGE.
                   PREFACE.

Some men write their lives to save themselves from ennui,
careless of the amount they inflict on their readers.

    Others write their personal history, lest some kind friend
should survive them, and, in showing off his own talent, un
wittingly show them up.

   Others, again, write their own life from a different motive

--from fear that the vampires of literature might make it

their prey.

  I have frequently had applications to write my life, both

from my countrymen and from foreigners. Some caterers
for the public offered to pay me for it. Others required that

I should pay them for its insertion ; others offered to insert

it without charge. One proposed to give me a quarter of a

Icolumn gratis, and as many additional lines of eloge as

chose to write and pay for at ten-pence per line. To many

Iof these sent a list of my works, with the remark that

they formed the best life of an author ; but nobody cared to
insert them.

  I Ihave no desire to write my own biography, as long as

 have strength and means to do better work.
   The remarkable circumstances attending those Calculating

IMachines, on which have spent so large a portion of my
viii PREFACE.

life, make me wish to place on record some account of their

past history. As, however, such a work would be utterly

Iuninteresting to the greater part of my countrymen, thought

it might be rendered less unpalatable by relating some of my

experience amongst various classes of society, widely differing

Ifrom each other, in which have occasionally mixed.

This volume does not aspire to the name of an autobio

graphy. It relates a variety of isolated circumstances in
Iwhich
        have taken part-- some of them arranged in the

order of time, and others grouped together in separate chap

ters, from similarity of subject.

The selection has been made in some cases from the im

portance of the matter. In others, from the celebrity of the

persons concerned ; whilst several of them furnish interesting

illustrations of human character.
                  CONTENTS

                  CHAPTER I.

Mt Ancestors . .                                          PaOS

                                                              1.

                  CHAPTER II.

Childhood

                  CHAPTER III.

Boyhood                                                   17

                  CHAPTER IV.

Cambridge                                                 25

                                      CHAPTER V.          41
Difference Engine No. 1

                  CHAPTER VI.

Statement relative to the Difference Engine, drawn up by

the late Sir H. Nicolas from the Author's Papers ..  ..   68

                                 CHAPTER VII.                 97
Difference Engine No. 2                              .. 112

                                 CHAPTER VIII.
Or the Analytical Engine ..
                        CONTENTS.

                                    CHAPTER IX.   ..      PAgM
Of the Mechanical Notation                                 142

                        CHAPTER X.

Tub Exhirition of 1862                                    147

                                    CHAPTER XI.

Tur late Prince Consort .. .. .. .. .. ..168

                                 CHAPTER XII.
Recollections of the Dure of Wellington .. .. .. 173

                                CHAPTER XIII.         .. .. 180

Recollections of Wollaston, Davy, and Rogers

                                   CHAPTER XIV.
Recollections of Laplace, Biot, and Humroldt . . . . . . 1«5

                        CHAPTER XV.

Experience ry Water     .. .. .. .. .. .. 205

                                    CHAPTER XVI.  ..      .. 213
Experience ry Fire .. .. .. ..

                        CHAPTER XVII.

Experience amongst Worrmen    ..   ..             ..  ..  .. 228

                               CHAPTER XVIII.

Picring Locrs and Deciphering .. .. .. .. .. 233

                        CHAPTER XIX.

Experience in St. Giles's ..       .. .. .. .. 242

Theatrical Experience   CHAPTER XX.                   . . . . 25 1

                             .. ., ..
                           CONTENTS.              xi

                                CHAPTER XXI.
                                                                                                                                                     TAOS

Electioneering Experience .. .. .. .. .. .. 259

                                CHAPTER XXII.
Scene from a New After-Piece .. .. .. .. .. 276

                           CHAPTER XXIII.

Experience at Courts       .. .. .. .. .. .. 292

Experience at Courts       CHAPTER XXIV.          .. .. 298

                                .. .. ..

Railways                CHAPTER XXV.

          .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 313

                           CHAPTER XXVI.

Street Nuisances       ..  .. .. .. .. .. 337

                              CHAPTER XXVII.      363

AVit

                           CHAPTER XXVIII.

Hints for Travellers       .. .. ..           ..  .. 371

Miracles              CHAPTER XXIX.

          .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 387

                           CHAPTER XXX.

Religion  .. .. .. ..                         .. .. .. 396

                           CHAPTER XXXI.

A Vision                                          406

                           CHAPTER XXXII.

Vabioub Reminiscences      .. .. .. .. .. .. 421
xii CONTENTS.

                              CHAPTER XXXIII.  ..  .. 430

The Author's Contrirutions to Human Knowledge

                                  CHAPTER XXXIV.
The Author's further Contrirutions to Human Knowledge .. 441

                                  CHAPTER XXXV.
Results of Science .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 473

                                 CHAPTER XXXVI.
Agreearle Recollections .. .. .. .. .. .. 482

Appendix  .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 487
            PASSAGES

                                                FROM ThE

LIFE OF A PHILOSOPHER.

                                 CHAPTEE L
                             MY ANCESTORS.

               Traced his descent, through ages dark,
               From cato that caterwauled in Noah's ark.

                                                                   Salmagundi, 4to, 1793.

Value of a celebrated Name--My Ancestors -- Their Ante-Mosaic origin --
Flint-workers --Tool-makers -- Not descended from Cain -- Ought a Phi
                                       were ? --Probability of Descent from Tubal Cain
--losAoprghuemr etontavoinw  it if he  he worked in Iron -- On the other side, he in

                             favour,
vented Organs -- Possible origin of my Name-- Family History in very

recent times.

What is there in a name ? It is merely an empty basket,

until you put something into it. My earliest visit to the
Continent taught me the value of such a basket, filled with
the name of my venerable friend the first Herschel, ere yet
my younger friend his son, had adorned his distinguished
patronymic with the additional laurels of his own well-earned

fame.

    The inheritance of a celebrated name is not, however,

Iwithout its disadvantages. This truth never found more

fully appreciated, nor more admirably expressed, than in a
conversation with the son of Filangieri, the author of the

                        As B
2 DESCENT FROM FLINT-WORKERS.

Icelebrated Treatise on Legislation, with whom became ac
Iquainted at Naples, and in whose company visited several

of the most interesting institutions of that capital.

  IIn the course of one of our drives, alluded to the advan

tages of inheriting a distinguished name, as in the case of
the second Herschel. His remark was, " For my own part,

I" think it a great disadvantage. Such a man must feel in

" the position of one inheriting a vast estate, so deeply
" mortgaged that he can never hope, by any efforts of his
" own, to redeem it."

   Without reverting to the philosophic, but unromantic,

Iviews of our origin taken by Darwin, shall pass over the

long history of our progress from a monad up to man, and
commence tracing my ancestry as the world generally do :
namely, as soon as there is the slightest ground for conjec

Iture. Although have contended for the Mosaic date of the
Icreation of man as long as decently could, and have even

endeavoured to explain away * some of the facts relied upon

Ito prove man's long anterior origin ; yet must admit that the

continual accumulation of evidence probably will, at last,
compel me to acknowledge that, in this single instance,
the writings of Moses may have been misapprehended.

   Let us, therefore, take for granted that man and certain
extinct races of animals lived together, thousands of years
before Adam. We find, at that period, a race who formed
knives, and hammers, and arrow-heads out of flint. Now,
considering my own inveterate habit of contriving tools, it is

Imore probable that should derive my passion by hereditary

transmission from these original tool-makers, than from any
other inferior race existing at that period.

    * On the remains of human art, mixed with the hones of extinct races of
animals. Proceedings of the Royal Society, 26th May, 1859.
                    NOT THROUGH CAIN.                     3

IMany years ago met a very agreeable party at Mr. Rogers'
Itable. Somebody introduced the subject of ancestry.
                                                      re

marked that most people are reluctant to acknowledge as

their father or grandfather, any person who had committed a

dishonest action or a crime. But that no one ever scrupled

to be proud of a remote ancestor, even though he might have

been a thief or a murderer. Various remarks were made,

and reasons assigned, for this tendency of the educated mind.

I then turned to my next neighbour, Sir Robert H. Inglis, and

asked him what he would do, supposing he possessed un

doubted documents, that he was lineally descended from Cain.

Sir Robert said he was at that moment proposing to him

self the very same question. After some consideration, he

Isaid he should burn them ; and then inquired what should
Ido in the same circumstances. My reply was, that should
Ipreserve them : but simply because thought the preserva

tion of any fact might ultimately be useful.

  I I Ifpossess no evidence that am descended from Cain.
Iany herald suppose that there may be such a presumption,

think it must arise from his confounding Cain with Tubal
Cain, who was a great worker in iron. Still, however he

might argue that, the probabilities are in favour of his

opinion : for I, too, work in iron. But a friend of mine, to

Iwhose kind criticisms am much indebted, suggests that as

Tubal Cain invented the Organ, this probability is opposed

to the former one.

The next step in my pedigree is to determine whence the

origin of my modern family name.

   Some have supposed it to be derived from the cry of sheep.

If so, that would point to a descent from the Shepherd Kings.

Others have supposed it is derived from the name of a place

called Bab or Babb, as we have, in the West of England, Bab

                                       b2
4 SAD OMISSION.

Tor, Babbacombe, &c. But this is evidently erroneous ; for,

when a people took possession of a desert country, its various

localities could possess no names ; consequently, the colonists

could not take names from the country to which they

migrated, but would very naturally give their own names to
the several lands they appropriated : " mats revenons a nos

mouions."

How my blood was transmitted to me through more

modern races, is quite immaterial, seeing the admitted an

tiquity of the flint-workers.

In recent times, that  is,
                                is
                                                     by
                       since the Conquest, my knowledge

of the history of my family limited                      the unfortunate

omission of my name from the roll of William's followers.

Those who are curious about the subject, and are idlers, may,

they think worth while, search all the parish registers
I if         I
                I it
         it
                                         is
                                            it
                                                    is

                                      I
in the West of England and elsewhere.

The light can throw upon       not great, and rests on
                                                         it
few documents, and on family tradition. During the past              aa

four generations have no surviving collateral relatives of

my own name.

The name of Babbage            not uncommon in the West of

England. One day during my boyhood, observed over

small grocer's shop, whilst riding through the town of Chudley.

dismounted, went into the shop, purchased some figs, and

found a very old man of whom made inquiry as to his
              a

                        I
family. He had not good memory himself, but his wife

told me that his name was Babb when she married him, and

that was only during the last twenty years he had adopted

the name of Babbage, which, the old man thought, sounded
better. Of course told his wife that entirely agreed with
              I

                                     a

                                 I
her husband, and thought him very sensible fellow.

The craft most frequently practised by my ancestors seems
A WILD ANCESTOR.  5

to have been that of a goldsmith, although several are be

lieved to have practised less dignified trades.

   In the time of Henry the Eighth one of my ancestors, to

gether with a hundred men, were taken prisoners at the
siege of Calais.

   When William the Third landed in Torbay, another ances
tor of mine, a yeoman possessing some small estate, under
took to distribute his proclamations. For this bit of high

Itreason he was rewarded with a silver medal, which well
Iremember seeing, when was a boy. It had descended to a

very venerable and truthful old lady, an unmarried aunt, the
historian of our family, on whose authority the identity of

Ithe medal saw with that given by King William must rest.

   Another ancestor married one of two daughters, the
only children of a wealthy physician, Dr. Burthogge, an inti
mate friend and correspondent of John Locke.

    Somewhere about 1700 a member of my family, one
Richard Babbage, who appears to have been a very wild
fellow, having tried his band at various trades, and given

them all up, offended a wealthy relative.
   To punish this idleness, his relative entailed all his large

estates upon eleven different people, after whom he gave it to
this Richard Babbage, who, had there been no entail, would

have taken them as heir-at-law.

    Ten of these lives had dropped, and the eleventh was in a
consumption, when Richard Babbage took it into his head to
go off to America with Bamfylde Moore Carew, the King of

the Beggars.

   The last only of the eleven lives existed when he em
barked, and that life expired within twelve months after
Richard Babbage sailed. The estates remained in possession
of the representatives of the eleventh in the entail.
0 ACT OF PARLIAMENT.

  If it could have been proved that Richard Babbage had

survived twelve months after his voyage to America, these
estates would have remained in my own branch of the

family.

  I possess a letter from Richard Babbage, dated on board

the ship in which he sailed for America.

   In the year 1773 it became necessary to sell a portion of

this property, for the purpose of building a church at Ash-

brenton. A private Act of Parliament was passed for that

purpose, in which the rights of the true heir were reserved.
CHAPTER II.

   CHILDHOOD.

" The Prince of Darkness ia a gentleman." -- Hamlet.

Early Passion for inquiry and inquisition  into Toys -- Lost on  London
   Bridge--Supposed value of the young     Philosopher -- Found  again-
Strange Coincidence in after-years -- Poisoned -- Frightened a Schoolfellow
by a Ghost-- Frightened himself by trying to raise the Devil -- Effect of
Want of Occupation for the Mind -- Treasure-trove -- Death and Non

appearance of a Schoolfellow.

IFrom my earliest years had a great desire to inquire into

the causes of all those little things and events which astonish

Ithe childish mind. At a later period commenced the still

more important inquiry into those laws of thought and those
aids which assist the human mind in passing from received

knowledge to that other knowledge then unknown to our race.

I now think it fit to record some of those views to which, at

various periods of my life, my reasoning has led me. Truth

Ionly has been the object of my search, and am not conscious

of ever having turned aside in my inquiries from any fear

of the conclusions to which they might lead.

IAs it may be interesting to some of those who will
hereafter read these lines,    shall briefly mention a few

events of my earliest, and even of my childish years. My

parents being born at a certain period of history, and in a
certain latitude and longitude, of course, followed the religion
8 THE YOUNG PHILOSOPHER LOST.

of their country. They brought me up in the Protestant form
of the Christian faith. My excellent mother taught me the
usual forms of my daily and nightly prayer ; and neither in
my father nor my mother was there any mixture of bigotry
and intolerance on the one hand, nor on the other of that
unbecoming and familiar mode of addressing the Almighty
which afterwards so much disgusted me in my youthful years.

   My invariable question on receiving any new toy, was
" Mamma, what is inside of it ?" Until this information was

obtained those around me had no repose, and the toy itself,

I have been told, was generally broken open if the answer

did not satisfy my own little ideas of the " fitness of things."

Earliest Recollections.

   Two events which impressed themselves forcibly on my

Imemory happened, think, previously to my eighth year.
  IWhen about five years old, was walking with my nurse,

who had in her arms an infant brother of mine, across London
I IBridge, holding, as thought, by her apron.
                                               was looking

I Iat the ships in the river. On turning round to speak to her,
   found that my nurse was not there, and that was alone

upon London Bridge. My mother had always impressed upon

me the necessity of great caution in passing any street-cross

I Iing : went on, therefore, quietly until reached Tooley Street,
Iwhere remained watching the passing vehicles, in order to

find a safe opportunity of crossing that very busy street.

   In the mean time the nurse, having lost one of her charges,

had gone to the crier, who proceeded immediately to call, by

the ringing of his bell, the attention of the public to the fact

that a young philosopher was lost, and to the still more im

portant fact that five shillings would be the reward of his

Ifortunate discoverer. - well remember sitting on the steps of
                            THE CRIER OFFERS A REWARD.                                  9

the door of the linendraper's shop on the opposite corner of

ITooley Street, when the gold-laced crier was making proclama

tion of my loss ; but was too much occupied with eating

some pears to attend to what he was saying.

The fact was, that one of the men in the linendraper's

shop, observing a little child by itself, went over to and
it
       it it

                    it
                                                                        :
                                            it
                                               it
                                                                                   it,
asked what                  wanted. Finding that     had lost its nurse,

he brought                  across the street, gave     some pears, and

placed on the steps at the door having asked my name,
the shopkeeper found to be that of one of his own customers.
He accordingly sent off a messenger, who announced to my
mother the finding of young Pickle before she was aware of
his loss.

   Those who delight in observing coincidences may perhaps
account for the following singular one. Several years ago
when the houses in Tooley Street were being pulled down,

believe to make room for the new railway terminus, hap
II 1                                                 I

                     :                                           a
                         a
                                                               I
pened to pass along the very spot on which had been lost

in my infancy. A slate of the largest size, called Duchess,*

was thrown from the roof of one of the houses, and penetrated
into the earth close to my feet.

The other event, which believe happened some time after
                            is
the one just related,                                   from memory,
                              I
                            as follows.  I        give

as have always repeated it.                         it

                                                                  in

                                                             I
was walking with my nurse and my brother                a public

garden, called Montpelier Gardens, in Walworth. On re

turning through the private road leading to the gardens,
gathered and swallowed some dark berries very like black

currants --these were poisonous.

    * There exists an aristocracy even amongst slates, perhaps from their
occupying the most elevated position in every house. Small ones arc
called Ladies, larger size Countesses, and the biggest of all are Duchesses.
10 YOUNG PHILOSOPHER POISONED.

  IOn iny return home, recollect being placed between my
Ifather's knees, and his giving me a glass of castor oil, which

took from his hand.

   My father at that time possessed a collection of pictures.
He sat on a chair on the right hand side of the chimney-
piece in the breakfast room, under a fine picture of our
Saviour taken down from the cross. On the opposite wall
was a still- celebrated " Interior of Antwerp Cathedral."

  IIn after-life several times mentioned the subject both to

my father and to my mother ; but neither of them had the
slightest recollection of the matter.

   Having suffered in health at the age of five years, and

Iagain at that of ten by violent fevers, from which was with

Idifficulty saved, was sent into Devonshire and placed under

the care of a clergyman (who kept a school at Alphington,
near Exeter), with instructions to attend to my health ; but, not
to press too much knowledge upon me : a mission which he

faithfully accomplished. Perhaps great idleness may have
led to some of my childish reasonings.

    Relations of ghost stories often circulate amongst children,

Iand also of visitations from the devil in a personal form.

Of course shared the belief of my comrades, but still had

Isome doubts of the existence of these personages, although
Igreatly feared their appearance. Once, in conjunction with

a companion, frightened another boy, bigger than myself,

I Iwith some pretended ghost; how prepared or how repre

sented by natural objects do not now remember : believe
it was by the accidental passing shadows of some external
objects upon the walls of our common bedroom.

    The effect of this on my playfellow was painful ; he was
much frightened for several days ; and it naturally occurred

Ito me, after some time, that as had deluded him with ghosts,
DELUDES A BOY WITH A GHOST.                11

I might myself have been deluded by older persons, and that,

after all, it might be a doubtful point whether ghost or devil
I Iever really existed.
gathered all the information could

on the subject from the other boys, and was soon informed

that there was a peculiar process by which the devil might
Ibe raised and become personally visible.
                                           carefully collected

from the traditions of different boys the visible forms in

which the Prince of Darkness had been recorded to have
appeared. Amongst them were --

A rabbit,

An owl,
A black cat, very frequently,
A raven,

A man with a cloven foot, also frequent.

After long thinking over the subject, although checked by

a belief that the inquiry was wicked, my curiosity at length
Iover-balanced my fears, and
                              resolved to attempt to raise
Ithe devil. Naughty people,   was told, had made written

compacts with the devil, and had signed them with their

names written in their own blood. These had become very
rich and great men during their life, a fact which might be

well known. But, after death, they were described as

having suffered and continuing to suffer physical torments
throughout eternity, another fact which, to my uninstructed
mind, it seemed difficult to prove.

  IAs only desired an interview with the gentleman in

Iblack simply to convince my senses of his existence, de

clined adopting the legal forms of a bond, and preferred

one more resembling that of leaving a visiting card, when, if

Inot at home, might expect the satisfaction of a return of tho

visit by the devil in person.
12 TRIES TO RAISE THE DEVIL.

IAccordingly, having selected a promising locality, went

one evening towards dusk up into a deserted garret. Having

I Iclosed the door, and believe opened the window, proceeded

to cut my finger and draw a circle on the floor with the blood

which flowed from the incision.

  I then placed myself in the centre of the circle, and either
Isaid or read the Lord's Prayer backwards. This accom

plished at first with some trepidation and in great fear
                                 I then stood still in the
towards the close of the scene.

centre of that magic and superstitious circle, looking with

intense anxiety in all directions, especially at the window and

at the chimney. Fortunately for myself, and for the reader

also, if he is interested in this narrative, no owl or black cat

or unlucky raven came into the room.

   In either case my then weakened frame might have ex

piated this foolish experiment by its own extinction, or by

the alienation of that too curious spirit which controlled its

feeble powers.

   After waiting some time for my      expected but dreaded

visitor, I, in some degree, recovered  Imy self-possession, and
                                          gradually opened the
leaving the circle of my incantation,

door and gently closingI descended the stairs, at first
                                     it,
                            I
                                  I
                                        II

                                                           Ia
slowly, and by degrees much more quickly.  then rejoined

my companions, but said nothing whatever of my recent

attempt. After supper the boys retired to bed. When we

were in bed and the candle removed, proceeded as usual

to repeat my prayers silently to myself. After the few first

sentences of the Lord's Prayer, found that had forgotten

sentence, and could not go on to the conclusion. This

alarmed me very much, and having repeated another prayer

or hymn,  remained long awake, and very unhappy.

thought that this forgetfulness was a punishment inflicted
         EXPERIMENTAL RELIGION.                13

Iupon me by the Almighty, and that was a wicked little

boy for having attempted to satisfy myself about the exist
ence of a devil. The next night my memory was more

Ifaithful, and my prayers went on as usual. Still, however,

was unhappy, and continued to brood over the inquiry. My

uninstructed faculties led me from doubts of the existence of

a devil to doubts of the book and the religion which asserted

him to be a living being. My sense of justice (whether it be
innate or acquired) led me to believe that it was impossible

that an almighty and all-merciful God could punish me, a
Ipoor little boy, with eternal torments because had anxiously
Itaken the only means

I Ihood of the religion
         knew of to verify the truth or false

         had been taught.                      thought over

these things for a long time, and, in my own childish mind,

wished and prayed that God would tell me what was true.
IAfter long meditation,
Ito settle the question.  resolved to make an experiment

                          thought, if it was really of such

immense importance to me here and hereafter to believe

rightly, that the Almighty would not consign me to eternal
I Imisery because, after trying all means that could devise,
Iwas unable to know the truth.
                                took an odd mode of
Imaking the experiment ; resolved that at a certain hour of
Ia certain day would go to a certain room in the house, and
I Ithat if found the door open, would believe the Bible ; but
Ithat if it were closed, should conclude that it was not true.
I Iremember well that the observation was made, but have
Ino recollection as to the state of the door.
                                               presume it was

Ifound open from the circumstance that, for many years after,
   was no longer troubled by doubts, and indeed went through

the usual religious forms with very little thought about their

origin.

At length, as time went on, my bodily health was restored
14 DISCOVERY OF GOLD.

by my native air : my mind, however, receiving but little in

Istruction, began, imagine, to prey upon itself -- such at least

1 infer to have been the case from the following circumstance.

One day, when uninterested in the sports of my little com

Ipanions, had retired into the shrubbery and was leaning my

I Ihead, supported by my left arm, upon the lower branch of a
thorn-tree. Listless and unoccupied,  imagined        had a
Ihead-ache. After a time perceived, lying on the ground
Ijust under me, a small bright bit of metal.
                                              instantly seized

the precious discovery, and turning it over, examined both
I Isides.
          immediately concluded that had discovered some

valuable treasure, and running away to my deserted com

panions, showed them my golden coin. The little company

became greatly excited, and declared that it must be gold,

and that it was a piece of money of great value. We ran off

to get the opinion of the usher ; but whether he partook of

I Ithe delusion, or we acquired our knowledge from the higher
authority of the master, know not.    only recollect the

entire dissipation of my head-ache, and then my ultimate

great disappointment when it was pronounced, upon the un

doubted authority of the village doctor, that the square piece

Iof brass had found was a half-dram weight which had

Iescaped from the box of a pair of medical scales. This little
incident had an important effect upon my after-life.          re

flected upon the extraordinary fact, that my head-ache had

Ibeen entirely cured by the discovery of the piece of brass.
Although  may not have put into words the principle,

thai occupation of the mind is such a source of pleasure thai

Iit can relieve even the pain of a head-ache ; yet am sure it

practically gave an additional stimulus to me in many a

difficult inquiry. Some few years after, when suffering

under a form of tooth-ache, not acute though tediously
COMPACT TO APPEAR AFTER DEATH.                          15

Iwearing, often had recourse to a volume of Don Quixote,

and still more frequently to one of Robinson Crusoe. Al

Ithough at first it required a painful effort of attention, yet

it almost always happened, after a time, that had forgotten

the moderate pain in the overpowering interest of the novel.

My most intimate companion and friend was a boy named

Dacres, the son of Admiral Richard Dacres. We had often

Italked over such questions as those have mentioned in

this chapter, and we had made an agreement that whichever

died first should, if possible, appear to the other after death,

in order to satisfy the survivor about their solution.

    After a year or two my young friend entered the navy,

Ibut we kept up our friendship, and when he was ashore saw

him frequently. He was in a ship of eighty guns at the

passage of the Dardanelles, under the command of Sir

Thomas Duckworth. Ultimately he was sent home in

charge of a prize-ship, in which he suffered the severest

hardships during a long and tempestuous voyage, and then

died of consumption.

  I saw him a few days before his death, at the age of about

eighteen. We talked of former times, but neither of us men
Itioned the compact.
                      believe it occurred to his mind : it

was certainly strongly present to my own.

  IHe died a few days after. On the evening of that day

retired to my own room, which was partially detached from
                                           I sat up until
the house by an intervening conservatory.

after midnight, endeavouring to read, but found it impossible

Ito fix my attention on any subject, except the overpowering
feeling of curiosity, which absorbed my mind.           then un-

dreased and went into bed ; but sleep was entirely banished.

I had previously carefully examined whether any cat, bird,

or living animal might be accidentally concealed in my room,
16 DID NOT APPEAR.

Iand had studied the forms of the furniture lest they should

in the darkness mislead me.                   The distant clock

  I passed a night of perfect sleeplessness.

and a faithful dog, just outside my own door, produced the

only sounds which disturbed the intense silence of that

anxious night.
                 CHAPTER m.

                        BOYHOOD.

Taken to an Exhibition of Mechanism -- Silver Ladies --School near London
--Unjustly punished --Injurious Effect --Ward's Young Mathematician's
                                         --Frederick Marryat interrupts  --
Guide-- Got up    in the Night to Study
Treaty of Peace  --Found out --Strange   Effect of Treacle and Cognac    on
Boys --Taught to write Sermons under the Rev. Charles Simeon.
                                                                               V
During my boyhood my mother took me to several exhi
Ibitions of machinery.
                        well remember one of them in
IHanover Square, by a man who called himself Merlin.

was so greatly interested in  that the Exhibitor remarked
                              it,

                                    I
the circumstance, and after explaining some of the objects

to which the public had access, proposed to my mother to

take me up to his workshop, where should see still more

wonderful automata. We accordingly ascended to the

attic. There were two uncovered female figures of silver,

about twelve inches high.
   One of these walked or rather glided along space of

about four feet, when she turned round and went back to her
                                                            a
original place. She used an eye-glass occasionally, anda       c
bowed frequently, as recognizing her acquaintances. The
motions of her limbs were singularly graceful.if                            a

   The other silver figure was an admirable danseuse, with
bird on the fore finger of her right hand, which wagged its
tail, flapped its wings, and opened its beak. This lady atti
tudinized in most fascinating manner. Her eyes were full
of imagination, and irresistible.
18 UNJUST PUNISIIMENT.

   These silver figures were the chef-d'ceuvres of the artist :
they had cost him years of unwearied labour, and were not

even then finished.

  I IAfter left Devonshire was placed at a school in the

neighbourhood of London, in which there were about thirty

boys.

   My first experience was unfortunate, and probably gave an
unfavourable turn to my whole career during my residence of
three years.

  I IAfter had been at school a few weeks, went with one of

my companions into the play-ground in the dusk of the even
ing. We heard a noise, as of people talking in an orchard
at some distance, which belonged to our master. As the

orchard had recently been robbed, we thought that thieves
were again at work We accordingly climbed over the
boundary wall, ran across the field, and saw in the orchard
beyond a couple of fellows evidently running away. We
pursued as fast as our legs could carry us, and just got up to
the supposed thieves at the ditch on the opposite side of the
orchard.

   A roar of laughter then greeted us from two of our own

companions, who had entered the orcbard for the purpose of
getting some manure for their flowers out of a rotten mul
berry-tree. These boys were aware of our mistake, and had

humoured it.

   We now returned all together towards the play-ground,
when we met our master, who immediately pronounced that
we were each fined one shilling for being out of bounds.
We two boys who had gone out of bounds to protect

our master's property, and who if thieves had really

been there would probably bave been half-killed by them,
attempted to remonstrate and explain the case ; but all
                                 NIGHT-WORK.                  Ill

Iremonstrance was vain, and we were accordingly fined.

never forgot that injustice.

   The school-room adjoined the house, but was not directly

connected with it. It contained a library of about three

hundred volumes on various subjects, generally very well

selected ; it also contained one or two works on subjects which
Ido not usually attract at that period of life.
                                                              derived much
Iadvantage from this library ; and now mention it because
I think it of great importance that a library should exist in

every school-room.

Amongst the books was a treatise on Algebra, called
I"Ward's Young Mathematician's Guide."
                                                              was always

partial to my arithmetical lessons, but this book attracted

Imy particular attention. After had been at this school for
Iabout a twelvemouth, proposed to one of my school-fellows,

who was of a studious habit, that we should get up every

morning at three o'clock, light a fire in the school-room, and

work until five or half-past five. We acccomplished this

pretty regularly for several months. Our plan had, however,

become partially known to a few of our companions. One

of these, a tall boy, bigger than ourselves, having heard

of asked me to allow him to get up with us, urging thatit,

                              *his sole object was to study, and that would be of great
                                  I
importance to him in after-life.             it
                                  had the cruelty to refuse

this very reasonable request. The subject has often recurred

to my memory, but never without regret.       ;               c
   Another of my young companions, Frederick Marryat,*            2

made the same request, but not with the same motive.                 I
told him we got up in order to work that he would only
play, and that we should then be found out. After some time,
having exhausted all his arguments, Marryat told me he was

                                 Afterwards Captain Marryat.
20 RIVAL COMPETITORS.

Idetermined to get up, and would do it whether liked it or

not.

Marryat slept in the same room as myself: it contained

five beds. Our room opened upon a landing, and its door

was exactly opposite that of the master. A flight of stairs

led up to a passage just over the room in which the master

and mistress slept. Passing along this passage, another flight

of stairs led down, on the other side of the master's bed-room,

to another landing, from which another flight of stairs led

down to the external door of the house, leading by a long

Ipassage to the school-room.       had cautiously threaded my
   Through this devious course

way, calling up my companion in his room at the top of the

last flight of stairs, almost every night for several months.

One night on trying to open the door of my own bed-room,
I found Marryat's bed projecting a little before the door, so
I Ithat could not open it.
                            perceived that this was done
I Ipurposely, in order that might awaken him.
                                               therefore

cautiously, and by degrees, pushed his bed back without
awaking him, and went as usual to my work. This occurred

two or three nights successively.
  IOne night, however, found a piece of pack-thread tied to
Ithe door lock, which traced to Marryat's bed, and concluded
Iit was tied to his arm or hand.
                                   merely untied the cord

from the lock, and passed on.

  IA few nights after found it impossible to untie the cord,
Iso cut it with my pocket-knife. The cord then became

thicker and thicker for several nights, but still my pen-knife

did its work.

  IOne night found a small chain fixed to the lock, and

passing thence into Marryat's bed. This defeated my efforts

Ifor that night, and retired to my own bed. The next night
VARIOUS STRATAGEMS.  21

I was provided with a pair of plyers, and unbent one of the

links, leaving the two portions attached to Marryat's arm
and to the lock of the door. This occurred several times,

Ivarying by stouter chains, and by having a padlock which

could not pick in the dark.

  IAt last one morning found a chain too strong for the
I Itools possessed ; so retired to my own bed, defeated. The
Inext night, however, provided myself with a ball of pack
Ithread. As soon as heard by his breathing that Marryat
Iwas asleep, crept over to the door, drew one end of my

ball of packthread through a link of the too-powerful chain,
and bringing it back with me to bed, gave it a sudden jerk
by pulling both ends of the packthread passing through the
link of the chain.

   Marryat jumped up, put out his hand to the door, found
his chain all right, and then lay down. As soon as he was

Iasleep again, repeated the operation. Having awakened
Ihim for the third time, let go one end of the string, and

drew it back by the other, so that he was unable at daylight

to detect the cause.

  IAt last, however, found it expedient to enter into a treaty
Iof peace, the basis of which was that should allow Marryat to

join the night party ; but that nobody else should be admitted.
This continued for a short time ; but, one by one, three or
four other boys, friends of Marryat,. joined our party, and, as

I had anticipated, no work was done. We all got to play ;

we let off fire-works in the play-ground,*and were of course

discovered.

    Our master read us a very grave lecture at breakfast upon
the impropriety of this irregular system of turning night into
day, and pointed out its injurious effects upon the health.
This, he said, was so remarkable that he could distinguish by
22 FOUND OUT.

their pallid countenances those who had taken part in it.

Now he certainly did point out every boy who had been up

on the night we were detected. But it appeard to me very odd

that the same means of judging had not enabled him long

before to discover the two boys who had for several months

habitually practised this system of turning night into day.

   Another of our pranks never received its solution in our

Imaster's mind ; indeed myself scarcely knew its early his

tory. Somehow or other, a Russian young gentleman, who

Iwas a parlour-boarder, had believe, expatiated to Marryat

on the virtues of Cognac.

   One evening my friend came to me with a quart bottle of

what he called excellent stun7. A council was held amongst

Ia few of us boys to decide how we should dispose of this
treasure.  did not myself much admire the liquid, but sug

gested that it might be very good when mixed up with a lot

of treacle. This thought was unanimously adopted, and a

subscription made to purchase the treacle. Having no vessel

Isufficiently large to hold the intended mixture, proposed

to take one of our garden-pots, stopping up the hole in its

bottom with a cork.

   A good big earthen vessel, thus extemporised, was then
filled with this wonderful mixture. A spoon or two, an oyster-

shell, and various other contrivances delivered it to its nu

merous consumers, and all the boys got a greater or less

share, according to their taste for this extraordinary liqueur.

The feast was fiver, the garden-pot was restored to its

owner, and the treacled lips of the boys had been wiped with

their hankerchiefs or on their coat-sleeves, when the bell an

nounced that it was prayer-time. We all knelt in silence at

our respective desks. As soon as the prayers were over, one

of the oddest scenes occurred.
EFFECT OF COGNAC.  23

   Many boys rose up from their knees--but some fell down

again. Some turned round several times, and then fell.

Some turned round so often that they resembled spinning
dervishes. Others were only more stupid than usual ; some
complained of being sick ; many were very sleepy ; others

were sound asleep, and had to be carried to bed ; some
talked fast and heroically, two attempted psalmody, but none

listened.

   All investigation at the time was useless : we were sent off
to bed as quickly as possible. It was only known that Count

Cognac had married the sweet Miss Treacle, whom all the
boys knew and loved, and who lodged at the grocer's, in the

Ineighbouring village. But believe neither the pedigree of

the bridegroom nor his domicile were ever discovered. It is

probable that he was of French origin, and dwelt in a cellar.

  I IAfter left this school was for a few years under the

care of an excellent clergyman in the neighbourhood of

I ICambridge. There were only six boys ; but fear did not
I Iderive from it all the advantage that might have done.

came into frequent contact with the Rev. Charles Simeon,

Iand with many of his enthusiastic disciples. Every Sunday
   had to write from memory an abstract of the sermon he

Ipreached in our village. Even at that period of my life
   had a taste for generalization. Accordingly, having gene
ralized some of Mr. Simeon's sermons up to a kind of skeleton

Iform, tried, by way of experiment, to fill up such a form in

a sermon of my own composing from the text of " Alexander

I" the coppersmith hath done us much harm." As well as

remember, there were in my sermon some queer deductions
from this text ; but then they fulfilled all the usual conditions
of our sermons : so thought also two of my companions to

Iwhom communicated in confidence this new manufacture.
24 COMPOSES SERMONS.

By some unexplained circumstance my sermon relating to

copper being isomorphous with Simeon's own productions,

got by substitution into the hands of our master as the

recollections of one of the other boys. Thereupon arose an

Iawful explosion which decline to paint.
  I Idid, however, learn something at this school, for observed

a striking illustration of the Economy of Manufactures.

Mr. Simeon had the cure of a very wicked parish in Cam

bridge, whilst my instructor held that of a tolerably decent
Ifcountry village.
                    each minister had stuck to the instruc

tion of his own parish, it would have necessitated the manu

facture of four sermons per week, whilst, by this beneficial

interchange of duties, only two were required.

   Each congregation enjoyed also another advantage from

this arrangement --the advantage of variety, which, when

moderately indulged in, excites the appetite.
                     CHAPTER IV.

                     CAMBRIDGE.

Universal Language --Purchase Lacroix's Quarto Work on the Integral
   Calculus --Disappointment on getting no explanation of my Mathe
   matical Difficulties --Origin of the Analytical Society --The Ghost Club
   --Chess -- Sixpenny Whist and Guinea Whist--Boating --Chemistry --

   Elected Lucasian Professor of Mathematics in 1828.

My father, with a view of acquiring some information

which might be of use to me at Cambridge, had consulted a
tutor of one of the colleges, who was passing his long vaca
tion at the neighbouring watering-place, Teignmouth. He

dined with us frequently. The advice of the Rev. Doctor

was quite sound, but very limited. It might be summed up

in one short sentence : " Advise your son not to purchase his

wine in Cambridge."

   Previously to my entrance at Trinity College, Cambridge,

I resided for a time at Totnes, under the guidance of an

Oxford tutor, who undertook to superintend my classical

studies only.

  IDuring my residence at this place accidentally heard, for
Ithe first time, of an idea of forming a universal language.

       a

                         I it,

                                                   a

                                   I

                                                                                                                         :

                                                      by I
was much fascinated by  and, soon after, proceeded to

write  kind of grammar, and then to devise a dictionary.

Some trace of the former, think, still possess but was

stopped in my idea of making universal dictionary the

apparent impossibility of arranging signs in any consecutive
26 PURCHASE THE WORK OF LACROIX.

order, so as to find, as in a dictionary, the meaning of each
Iwhen wanted. It was only after had been some time at
ICambridge that became acquainted with the work of
" Bishop Wilkins on Universal Language."

  IBeing passionately fond of algebra, had instructed my
Iself by means of Ward's " Young Mathematician's Guide,"
which had casually fallen into my hands at school.  now

employed all my leisure in studying such mathematical

works as accident brought to my knowledge. Amongst these

Iwere Humphrey Ditton's " Fluxions," of which could make

nothing; Madame Agnesi's "Analytical Institutions," from

Iwhich acquired some knowledge ; Woodhouse's "Principles
Iof Analytical Calculation," from which learned the notation
Iof Leibnitz ; and Lagrange's " Theorie des Fonctions."

I Ipossessed also the Fluxions of Maclaurin and of Simpson.
   Thus it happened that when went to Cambridge could

work out such questions as the very moderate amount of
Imathematics which
                    then possessed admitted, with equal

facility, in the dote of Newton, the d's of Leibnitz, or the
Idashes of Lagrange.
                      had, however, met with many dif

ficulties, and looked forward with intense delight to the

Icertainty of having them all removed on my arrival at Cam-
bridge.    had in my imagination formed a plan for the

institution amongst my future friends of a chess club, and

also of another club for the discussion of mathematical

subjects.

In 1811, during the war, it was very difficult to procure
Iforeign books.
                 had heard of the great work of Lacroix,
Ion the "Differential and Integral Calculus," which longed

to possess, and being misinformed that its price was two

Iguineas, resolved to purchase it in London on my passage
I Ito Cambridge. As soon as arrived went to the French
DIFFICULTIES NOT ANSWERED.       27

bookseller, Dulau, and to my great surprise found that the

Iprice of the book was seven guineas. After much thought
  made the costly purchase, went on immediately to Cam

bridge, saw my tutor Hudson, got lodgings, and then spent

the greater part of the night in turning over the pages of my

Inewly-acquired purchase. After a few days, went to my

public tutor Hudson, to ask the explanation of one of my

mathematical difficulties. He listened to my question, said it

would not be asked in the Senate House, and was of no sort

of consequence, and advised me to get up the earlier sub

jects of the university studies.

  IAfter some little while went to ask the explanation of

another difficulty from one of the lecturers. He treated the
Iquestion just in the same way.
                                 made a third effort to be

Ienlightened about what was really a doubtful question, and

felt satisfied that the person addressed knew nothing of

the matter, although he took some pains to disguise his

Iignorance.
      thus acquired a distaste for the routine of the studies of
the place, and devoured the papers of Euler and other
mathematicians, scattered through innumerable volumes of
the academies of Petersburgh, Berlin, and Paris, which the

Ilibraries had recourse to contained.
  IUnder these circumstances it was not surprising that

should perceive and be penetrated with the superior power
of the notation of Leibnitz.

   At an early period, probably at the commencement of the

second year of my residence at Cambridge, a friend of mine,
Michael Slegg, of Trinity, was taking wine with me, dis
cussing mathematical subjects, to which he also was enthu
siastically attached. Hearing the chapel bell ring, he took
leave of me, promising to return for a cup of coffee.
28 RESULT OF BIBLE SOCIETY.

At this period Cambridge was agitated by a fierce con

troversy. Societies had been formed for printing and circu
lating the Bible. One party proposed to circulate it with
notes, in order to make it intelligible ; whilst the other
scornfully rejected all explanations of the word of God as

profane attempts to mend that which was perfect.

The walls of the town were placarded with broadsides, and

posters were sent from house to house. One of the latter
form of advertisement was lying upon my table when Slegg

                               a
                                             a

                                                       a iIt,
left me. Taking up the paper, and looking through

I
             it,
thought from its exaggerated tone, good subject for

parody.

   then drew up the sketch of society to be instituted for

translating the small work of Lacroix on the Differential and

Integral Lacroix. It proposed that we should have peri

odical meetings for the propagation of d's and consigned to
                               I
perdition all who supported the heresy of dots.         ;  maintained

                                                    a

                                                It
that the work of Lacroix was so perfect that any comment

was unnecessary.

   On Slegg's return from chapel put the parody into his

hands. My friend enjoyed the joke heartily, and at parting

asked my permission to show the parody to mathematical

friend of his, Mr. Bromhead.*

The next day Slegg called on me, and said that he had

put the joke into the hand of his friend, who, after laughing
heartily, remarked that was too good joke to be lost,
                  it

                                                    a
                                                   a
and proposed seriously that we should form society for the

cultivation of mathematics.

The next day Bromhead called on me. We talked the

subject over, and agreed to hold meeting at his lodgings
                               a

       Afterwards Sir Edward Ffrench Bromhead, Bart., the author of an*
interesting paper in the Transactions of the Royal Society.
ANALYTICAL SOCIETY.                                                                           29

for the purpose of forming a society for the promotion of

analysis.

   At that meeting, besides the projectors, there were present

Herschel, Peacock, D'Arblay,* Ryan.t Robinson,} Frederick
Maule,§ and several others. We constituted ourselves " The

Analytical Society;" hired a meeting-room, open daily; held
meetings, read papers, and discussed them. Of course we
were much ridiculed by the Dons ; and, not being put down,

it was darkly hinted that we were young infidels, and that no

good would come of us.

   In the meantime we quietly pursued our course, and at

last resolved to publish a volume of our Transactions. Owing
to the illness of one of the number, and to various other

circumstances, the volume which was published was entirely
contributed by Herschel and myself.

   At last our work was printed, and it became necessary to

Idecide upon a title. Recalling the slight imputation which

had been made upon our faith, suggested that the most

appropriate title would be --
    The Principles of pure D-ism in opposition to the Dot-age

of the University.!

  IIn thus reviving this wicked pun, ought at the same

time to record an instance of forgiveness unparalleled in

Ihistory. Fourteen years after, being then at Rome, acci

 dentally read in Galignani's newspaper the following para

graph, dated Cambridge : --" Yesterday the bells of St. Mary

 rang on the election of Mr. Babbage as Lucasian Professor
 of Mathematics."

* The only son of Madame D'Arblay.

Now the Right Honourable Sir Edward Ryan.
li § ·(,J

                                                              a
                                                                  d,
                                                                                           a
The Rev. Dr. Robinson, Master of the Temple.
A younger brother of the late Mr. Justice Maule.

Leibnitz indicated fluxions by      Newton by dot.
30 ELECTED LUCASIAN PROFESSOR.

  If this event had happened during the lifetime of my

father, it would have been most gratifying to myself, because,
whilst it would have given him much pleasure, it would then

Ialso have afforded intense delight to my mother.
      concluded that the next post would bring me the official

Iconfirmation of this report, and after some consideration
Isketched the draft of a letter, in which proposed to thank

the University sincerely for the honour they had done me,
but to decline it.

   This sketch of a letter was hardly dry when two of my
intimate friends, the Rev. Mr. Lunn and Mr. Beilby Thomp

Ison,* who resided close to me in the Piazza del Populo, came
over to congratulate me on the appointment.    showed them

my proposed reply, against which they earnestly protested.

Their first, and as they believed their strongest, reason was

 Ithat it would give so much pleasure to my mother. To this

I answered that my mother's opinion of her son had been

confirmed by the reception he had met with in every foreign

country he had visited, and that this, in her estimation, would
Iadd but little to it. To their next argument
                                               had no satis

factory answer. It was that this election could not have

occurred unless some friends of mine in England had taken

active measures to promote it ; that some of these might have

been personal friends, but that many others might have
exerted themselves entirely upon principle, and that it would

be harsh to disappoint such friends, and reject such a compli

ment.                                          I saw the vast

   My own feelings were of a mixed nature.

field that the Difference Engine had opened out ; for, before
I Ileft England in the previous year,
                                       had extended its

mechanism to the tabulation of functions having no constant

* Afterwards Lord Wenlock.
            FIRST EXAMINATION.                       31

Idifference, and more particularly had arrived at the know

ledge of the entire command it would have over the compu

tation of the most important classes of tables, those of astro
Inomy and of navigation.
                          was also most anxious to give

my whole time to the completion of the mechanism of the

IDifference Engine No. 1 which had then in hand. Small
Ias the admitted duties of the Lucasian Chair were, felt that
Ithey would absorb time which thought better devoted to
If Ithe completion of the Difference Engine.
                                              had then been

aware that the lapse of a few years would have thrown upon

me the enormous labour which the Analytical Engine ab

sorbed, no motive short of absolute necessity would have

induced me to accept any office which might, in the slightest

degree, withdraw my attention from its contrivance.

   The result of this consultation with my two friends was,

Ithat determined to accept the Chair of Newton, and to hold

it for a few years. In 1839 the demands of the Analytical

Engine upon my attention had become so incessant and so
exhausting, that even the few duties of the Lucasian Chair

Ihad a sensible effect in impairing my bodily strength.
Itherefore sent in my resignation.

   In January, 1829, visited Cambridge, to fulfil one of the

first duties of my new office, the examination for Dr. Smith's

prizes.
   These two prizes, of twenty-five pounds each, exercise a

very curious and important influence. Usually three or four
hundred young men are examined previously to taking their
degree. The University officers examine and place them
in the order of their mathematical merit. The class called
Wranglers is the highest; of these the first is called the

senior wrangler, the others the second and third, &c,

wranglers.
32 COURT OF APPEAL.

   All the young men who have just taken their degree, whether

with or without honours, are qualified to compete for the
Smith's prizes by sending in notice to the electors, who con
sist of the three Professors of Geometry, Astronomy, and
Physics, assisted occasionally by two official electors, the Vice-
Chancellor and the Master of Trinity College. However, in
point of fact, generally three, and rarely above six young men

compete.

  It is manifest that the University officers, who examine

several hundred young men, cannot bestow the same minute

attention upon each as those who, at the utmost, only examine
six. Nor is this of any importance, except to the few first
wranglers, who usually are candidates for these prizes. The
consequence is that the examiners of the Smith's prizes con
stitute, as it were, a court of appeal from the decision of the
University officers. The decision of the latter is thus there

fore, necessarily appealed against upon every occasion. Per

haps in one out of five or six cases the second or third wran
Igler obtains the first Smith's prize.
                                        may add that in the

few cases known to me previously to my becoming an ex

aminer, the public opinion of the University always approved

those decisions, without implying any censure on the officers

of the University.

  IIn forming my set of questions, consulted the late Deun
Iof Ely and another friend, in order that might not suddenly

deviate too much from the usual style of examinations.

  IAfter having examined the young men, sat up the whole

night, carefully weighing the relative merits of their answers-
I found, with some mortification, that, according to my marks,
Ithe second wrangler ought to have the first prize.
                                                     there

fore put aside the papers until the day before the decision.

I then took an unmarked copy of my questions, and put new
REMARKABLE AGREEMENT.                                      33

numbers for their respective values. After very carefully

Igoing over the whole of the examination-papers again,

arrived almost exactly at my former conclusion.

On our meeting at the Vice-Chancellor's, that functionary

asked me, as the senior professor, what was my decision as to
Ithe two prizes.
                  stated that the result of my examination

obliged me to award the first prize to the second wrangler.

Professor Airy was then asked the same question. He made

the same reply. Professor Lax being then asked, said he

had arrived at the same conclusion as his two colleagues.

The Vice-Chancellor remarked that when we altered the

arrangement of the University Examiners, it was very satis

factory that we should be unanimous. Professor Airy ob

served that this satisfaction was enhanced by the fact of

the remarkable difference in the tastes of the three ex

aminers.

   The Vice-Chancellor, turning to me, asked whether it
might be permitted to inquire the numbers we had respec

Itively assigned to each candidate.
      and my colleagues immediately mentioned our numbers,

which Professor Airy at once reduced to a common scale.
On this it appeared that the number of marks assigned to each
by Professor Airy and myself very nearly agreed, whilst that
of Professor Lax differed but little.

   On this occasion the first Smith's prize was assigned to the
second wrangler, Mr. Cavendish, now Duke of Devonshire,

the present Chancellor of the University.
   The result of the whole of my after-experience showed that

amongst the highest men the peculiar tastes of the examiners
had no effect in disturbing the proper decision.

  I held the Chair of Newton for some few years, and still

feel deeply grateful for the honour the University conferred
34 GHOST CLUB -EXTRACTORS.

Iupon me -- the only honour          ever received in my own

Icountry.*
      must now return to my pursuits during my residence at

Cambridge, the account of which has been partially inter

rupted by the history of my appointment to the Chair of

Newton.
I IWhilst was an undergraduate,
                                            lived probably in a

greater variety of sets than any of my young companions.

But my chief and choicest consisted of some ten or a dozen

friends who usually breakfasted with mo every Sunday after
chapel ; arriving at about nine, and remaining to between
twelve and one o'clock. We discussed all knowable and

many unknowable things.

  At one time we resolved ourselves into a Ghost Club, and

proceeded to collect evidence, and entered into a consider

able correspondence upon the subject. Some of this was

both interesting and instructive.

   At another time we resolved ourselves into a Club which
we called The Extractors. Its rules were as follows, --

1st. Every member shall communicate his address to the

Secretary once in six months.
If2nd.
         this communication          is delayed beyond twelve

months, it shall be taken for granted that his relatives had

shut him up as insane.

   3rd. Every effort legal and illegal shall be made to get

him out of the madhouse. Hence the name of the club--

The Extractors.

* This professorship is not in the gift of the Government.  The electors
Itare the masters of the various colleges.
                                            was founded in 1663 by Henry

Lucas, M.P. for the University, and was endowed by him with a small

estate in Bedfordshire. During my tenure of that office my net receipts
Iwere between SOI. and 90Z. a year.
                                     am glad to find that the estate is

now improved, and that the University have added an annual salary to the

Chair of Newton.
                      SHYNESS-- CHESS.             36

4th. Every candidate for admission as a member shall

produce six certificates. Three that he is sane and three

others that he is insane.

  It has often occurred to me to inquire of my legal friends
whether, if the sanity of any member of the club had been

questioned in after-life, he would have adduced the fact of

membership of the Club of Extractors as an indication of

sanity or of insanity.

  During the first part of my residence at Cambridge, I

played at chess very frequently, often with D'Arblay and

with several other good players. There was at that period a

fellow-commoner at Trinity named Brande, who devoted
Ialmost his whole time to the study of chess.
                                               was invited to

meet him one evening at the rooms of a common friend for

Ithe purpose of trying our strength.
   On arriving at my friend's rooms, found a note informing

Ime that he had gone to Newmarket, and had left coffee and
the chessmen for us.  was myself tormented by great
Ishyness, and my yet unseen adversary was,
                                               understood,
                    I was sitting before the chess-board when
equally diffident.  I rose, he advanced, sat down, and took a
Brande entered.

white and a black pawn from the board, which he held, one in
Ieither hand.
                    pointed with my finger to the left hand and

won the move.

   The game then commenced ; it was rather a long one, and

I won it : but not a word was exchanged until the end : when
IBrande uttered the first word. " Another ?" To this nod

ded assent.

  IHow that game was decided do not now remember ; but

the first sentence pronounced by either of us, was a remark
by Brande, that he had lost the first game by a certain move

Iof his white bishop. To. this 1 replied, that thought he was

                                               D2
36 SIXPENNY WHIST.
                                                       *

mistaken, and that the real cause of his losing the game arose

Ifrom the use had made of my knight two moves previously

to his white bishop's move.

    We then immediately began to replace the men on the
board in the positions they occupied at that particular point
of the game when the white bishop's move was made. Each
took up any piece indiscriminately, and placed it without

hesitation on the exact square on which it had stood. It

Ithen became apparent that the effective move to which

had referred was that of my knight.
    Brande, during his residence at Cambridge, studied chess

regularly several hours each day, and read almost every
treatise on the subject. After he left college he travelled

abroad, took lessons from every celebrated teacher, and

played with all the most eminent players on the Con
tinent.

  IAt intervals of three or four years occasionally met him

in London. After the usual greeting he always proposed
that we should play a game of chess.

  I Ifound on these occasions, that if played any of the
Iordinary openings, such as are found in the books, was sure
Ito be beaten. The only way in which had a chance of

winning, was by making early in the game a move so bad
that it had not been mentioned in any treatise. Brande

possessed, and had read, almost every book upon the

subject.

   IAnother set which frequently joined were addicted to

sixpenny whist. It consisted of Higman, afterwards Tutor of

Trinity ; Follet, afterwards Attorney-General ; of a learned

Iand accomplished Dean still living, and have no doubt still

playing an excellent rubber, and myself. We not unfre-
quently sat from chapel-time in the evening until the sound
         EXPEDITIONS TO THE PENS.                 37

of the morning chapel bell again called us to our religious

duties.

  I mixed occasionally with a different set of whist players

at Jesus College. They played high : guinea points, and five
Iguineas on the rubber.
                         was always a most welcome visitor,
Inot from my skill at the game ; but because never played

more than shilling points and five shillings on the rubber.

Consequently my partner had what they considered an ad
vantage : namely, that of playing guinea points with one of

our adversaries and pound points with the other.
ITotally different in character was another set in which
Imixed.
         was very fond of boating, not of the manual labour
Iof rowing, but the more intellectual art of sailing. kept a

beautiful light, London-built boat, and occasionally took long

voyages down the river, beyond Ely into the fens. To ac
complish these trips, it was necessary to have two or three

strong fellows to row when the wind failed or was contrary.

These were useful friends upon my aquatic expeditions, but
not being of exactly the same calibre as my friends of the

Ghost Club, were very cruelly and disrespectfully called by
them " my Tom fools."

  IThe plan of our voyage was thus : -- sent my servant to
Ithe apothecary for a thing called an ffigrotat, which under
I Istood, for never saw one, meant a certificate that was in

disposed, and that it would be injurious to my health to
attend chapel, or hall, or lectures. This was forwarded to

the college authorities.

  I also directed my servant to order the cook to send me a

large well-seasoned meat pie, a couple of fowls, &c. These
were packed in a hamper with three or four bottles of wine
and one of noyeau. We sailed when the wind was fair, and

rowed when there was none. Whittlesea Mere was a very
38 CHEMISTRY.

favourite resort for sailing, fishing, and shooting. Some
times we reached Lynn. After various adventures and five or
six days of hard exercise in the open air, we returned with

our health more renovated than if the best physician had

prescribed for us.

   During my residence at Cambridge, Smithson Tennant

Iwas the Professor of Chemistry, and attended his lec

Itures. Having a spare room, turned it into a kind of la

boratory, in which Herschel worked with me, until he set

up a rival one of his own. We both occasionally assisted

the Professor in preparing his experiments. The science of

chemistry had not then assumed the vast development it has
I Inow attained.
gave up its practical pursuit soon after
I Iresided in London, but have never regretted the time
Ibestowed upon it at the commencement of my career.

had hoped to have long continued to enjoy the friendship

of my entertaining and valued instructor, and to have

profited by his introducing me to the science of the metro

polis, but his tragical fate deprived me of that advantage-
Whilst riding with General Bulow across a drawbridge at

Boulogne, the bolt having been displaced, Smithson Tennant

was precipitated to the bottom, and killed on the spot. The

General, having an earlier warning, set spurs to his horse,

and just escaped a similar fate.

  IMy views respecting the notation of Leibnitz now (1812)

received confirmation from an extensive course of reading.
became convinced that the notation of fluxions must ultimately

prove a strong impediment to the progress of English science.

IBut knew, also, that it was hopeless for any young and

unknown author to attempt to introduce the notation of

Leibnitz into an elementary work. This opinion naturally
                   TRANSLATION OF LACllOIX.                                     39

suggested to me the idea of translating the smaller work of

ILacroix. It is possible, although have no recollection of
1

                        a

                            I

                                       I

                                                                          it
                                                                                            by it,
that the same idea may have occurred to several of my col

leagues of the Analytical Society, but most of them were so

occupied, first with their degree, and then with their examina

tion for fellowships, that no steps were at that time taken

any of them on that subject.

Unencumbered by these distractions,            commenced the

task, but at what period of time do not exactly recollect.

had finished portion of the translation, and laid aside,

when, some years afterwards, Peacock called on me in Devon

shire Street, and stated that both Herschel and himself were

convinced that the change from the dote to the d's would not

be accomplished until some foreign work of eminence should

be translated into English. Peacock then proposed that
                    I
                                         by I

                                                          I
should either finish the translation which had commenced,

or that Herschel and himself should complete the remainder

of my translation.    suggested that we should toss up which
alternative to take.
                      It was determined        lot that we should

make joint translation. Some months after, the translation
I
of the small work of Lacroix was published.
           a is a
   For several years after, the progress of the notation of

Leibnitz at Cambridge was slow. It true that the tutors
                                       is
of the two largest colleges had adopted   it,  but was taught
                                               a
at none of the other colleges.                     it
                                               new language,
  It always difficult to think and reason in

and this difficulty discouraged all but men of energetic minds.

saw, however, that,   by  making their interest to do so, the
                                 it
change might be accomplished.            therefore proposed to
                                   I

make large collection of examples of the differential and
integral calculus, consisting merely of the statement of each

problem and its final solution.  foresaw that such pub
                                 I

                                                     if

                                                                             a
40 COLLECTION OF EXAMPLES.

lication existed, all those tutors who did not approve of the

change of the Newtonian notation would yet, in order to
save their own time and trouble, go to this collection of

examples to find problems to set to their pupils. After a

short time the use of the new signs would become familiar,

Iand anticipated their general adoption at Cambridge as a

matter of course.
I commenced by copying out a large portion of the work
Iof Hirsch.
             then communicated to Peacock and Herschel

my view, and proposed that they should each contribute a

portion.

   Peacock considerably modified my plan by giving the pro
cess of solution to a large number of the questions. Herschel

Iprepared the questions in finite differences, and supplied the

examples to the calculus of functions. In a very few years

the change was completely established ; and thus at last the
English cultivators of mathematical science, untrammelled by
a limited and imperfect system of signs, entered on equal
terms into competition with their continental rivals.
                  CHAPTER V.

           DIFFERENCE ENGINE NO. I.

           " Oh no ! we never mention it.
             Its name is never heard."

Difference Engine No. 1--First Idea at Cambridge, 1812 --Plan for Di
   viding Astronomical Instruments -- Idea of a Machine to calculate Tables
  by Differences --Illustrations by Piles of Cannon-balls.

Calculating Machines comprise various pieces of me

chanism for assisting the human mind in executing the ope

rations of arithmetic. Some few of these perform the whole

operation without any mental attention when once the given

numbers have been put into the machine.

Others require a moderate portion of mental attention :

these latter are generally of much simpler construction than

the former, and it may also be added, are less useful.

   The simplest way of deciding to which of these two classes

any calculating machine belongs is to ask its maker --Whether,
when the numbers on which it is to operate are placed in the

instrument, it is capable of arriving at its result by the mere

motion of a spring, a descending weight, or any other constant
Ifforce ?
           the answer be in the affirmative, the machine is

really automatic ; if otherwise, it is not self-acting.

  IOf the various machines have had occasion to examine,

many of those for Addition and Subtraction have been found
42 ORIGIN OF DIFFERENCE ENGINE.

to be automatic. Of machines for Multiplication and Divi

Ision, which have fully come under my examination, cannot

at present recall one to my memory as absolutely fulfilling

this condition.

  IThe earliest idea that can trace in my own mind of

calculating arithmetical Tables by machinery arose in this

manner :--

  IOne evening was sitting in the rooms of the Analytical

Society, at Cambridge, my head leaning forward on the Table
in a kind of dreamy mood, with a Table of logarithms lying

open before me. Another member, coming into the room, and
seeing me half asleep, called out, " Well, Babbage, what are

I Iyou dreaming about ?" to which replied, " am thinking

that all these Tables (pointing to the logarithms) might be

calculated by machinery."

  I am indebted to my friend, the Bev. Dr. Robinson, the

Master of the Temple, for this anecdote. The event must

have happened either in 1812 or 1813.

  IAbout 1819 was occupied with devising means for ac

I Icurately dividing astronomical instruments, and had arrived

at a plan which thought was likely to succeed perfectly.

had also at that time been speculating about making

machinery to compute arithmetical Tables.

  IOne morning called upon the late Dr. Wollaston, to

consult him about my plan for dividing instruments. On

talking over the matter, it turned out that my system was

exactly that which had been described by the Duke de

Chaulnes, in the Memoirs of the French Academy of Sciences,
Iabout fifty or sixty years before.
                                     then mentioned my other

idea of computing Tables by machinery, which Dr. Wollaston

thought a more promising subject.

  I considered that a machine to execute the mere isolated
ADDITION AND CARRIAGE.                                  43

operations of arithmetic, would be comparatively of little
value, unless it were very easily set to do its work, and

unless it executed not only accurately, but with great rapidity,
whatever it was required to do.

   On the other hand, the method of differences supplied a

general principle by which all Tables might be computed

through limited intervals, by one uniform process. Again,

the method of differences required the use of mechanism for

Addition only. In order, however, to insure accuracy in the
printed Tables, it was necessary that the machine which com

puted Tables should also set them up in type, or else supply
a mould in which stereotype plates of those Tables could

be cast.

 I now began to sketch out arrangements for accomplishing

the several partial processes which were required. The

arithmetical part must consist of two distinct processes--the

power of adding one digit to another, and also of carrying the
tens to the next digit, if it should be necessary.

   The first idea was, naturally, to add each digit successively.

This, however, would occupy much time if the numbers added

together consisted of many places of figures.

The next step was to add all the digits of the two numbers

each to each at the same instant, but reserving a certain

mechanical memorandum, wherever a carriage became due.

These carriages were then to be executed successively.
IHaving made various drawings,
                                now began to make

models of some portions of the machine, to see how they

would act. Each number was to be expressed upon wheels
placed upon an axis ; there being one wheel for each figure in

the number operated upon.

Having arrived at a certain point in my progress, it became

necessary to have teeth of a peculiar form cut upon these
44 UNEXPECTED DIFFICULTY EXPLAINED.

Iwheels. As my own lathe was not fit for this job, took the
Iwheels to a wheel-cutter at Lambeth, to whom carefully

conveyed my instructions, leaving with him a drawing as his

guide.

These wheels arrived late one night, and the next morning
I began putting them in action with my other mechanism,
Iwhen, to my utter astonishment,
Iunfit for their task.            found they were quite

                        examined the shape of their teeth,

compared them with those in the drawings, and found they

agreed perfectly ; yet they could not perform their intended
Iwork.
        had been so certain of the truth of my previous
I Ireasoning, that now began to be somewhat uneasy.
Ireflected that, if the reasoning about which had been so
Icertain should prove to have been really fallacious, could
Ithen no longer trust the power of my own reason. therefore

· went over with my wheels to the artist who had formed the

   Iteeth, in order that might arrive at some explanation of

      this extraordinary contradiction.

On conferring with him, it turned out that, when he had

understood fully the peculiar form of the teeth of wheels, he

discovered that his wheel-cutting engine had not got amongst -

Iits divisions that precise number which had required. He

therefore had asked me whether another number, which his

Imachine possessed, would not equally answer my object.

Ihad inadvertently replied in the affirmative. He then made

arrangements for the precise number of teeth required ; and

the new wheels performed their expected duty perfectly.

The next step was to devise means for printing the tables

to be computed by this machine.  My first plan was to make
it put together moveable type.
                                 I proposed to make metal

boxes, each containing 3,000 types of one of the ten digits.

These types were to be made to pass out one by one from the
                 VERIFICATION OF TYPE.  45

bottom of their boxes, when required by the computing part

of the machine.

But here a new difficulty arose. The attendant who put

Ithe types into the boxes might, by mistake, put a wrong type

in one or more of them. This cause of error removed in

the following manner : --There are usually certain notches in
Ithe side of the type.
                        caused these notches to be so placed

that all the types of any given digit possessed the same cha

racteristic notches, which no other type had. Thus, when the

boxes were filled, by passing a small wire down these peculiar

notches, it would be impeded in its passage, if there were
included in the row a single wrong figure. Also, if any digit

were accidentally turned upside down, it would bo indicated

by the stoppage of the testing wire.

One notch was reserved as common to every species of

type. The object of this was that, before the types which

the Difference Engine had used for its computation were re

moved from the iron platform on which they were placed, a

steel wire should be passed through this common notch, and

remain there. The tables, composed of moveable types, thus

interlocked, could never have any of their figures drawn out

by adhesion to the inking-roller, and then by possibility be

restored in an inverted order. A small block of such figures

tied together by a bit of string, remained unbroken for several
years, although it was rather roughly used as a plaything by

my children. One such box was finished, and delivered its

type satisfactorily.
   Another plan for printing the tables, was to place the or

dinary printing type round the edges of wheels. Then, as
each successive number was produced by the arithmetical
part, the type-wheels would move down upon a plate of soft

composition, upon which the tabular number would be im
46 MOULDS AND COPPER-PLATE.

pressed. This mould was formed of a mixture of plaster-of-
Paris with other materials, so as to become hard in the

course of a few hours.

The first difficulty arose from the impression of one tabular

number on the mould being distorted by the succeeding one.
I was not then aware that a very slight depth of impression
Ifrom the type would be quite sufficient.
                                              surmounted the

difficulty by previously passing a roller, having longitudinal
wedge-shaped projections, over the plastic material. This

formed a series of small depressions in the matrix between

each line. Thus the expansion arising from the impression

of one line partially filled up the small depression or ditch

which occurred between each successive line.

The various minute difficulties of this kind were succes

sively overcome ; but subsequent experience has proved that

the depth necessary for stereotype moulds is very small, and

that even thick paper, prepared in a peculiar manner, is quite

sufficient for the purpose.

Another series of experiments were, however, made for the

purpose of punching the computed numbers upon copper

plate. A special machine was contrived and constructed,

which might be called a co-ordinate machine, because it

moved the copper plate and steel punches in the direction of

three rectangular co-ordinates. This machine was afterwards

found very useful for many other purposes. It was, in fact, a
general shaping machine, upon which many parts of the Dif

ference Engine were formed.

   Several specimens of surface and copper-plate printing, as
well as of the copper plates, produced by these means, were
exhibited at the Exhibition of 1862.

  I have proposed and drawn various machines for the

purpose of calculating a series of numbers forming Tables
' EDINBURGH REVIEW.'  47

by means of a certain system called " The Method of Dif
ferences," which it is the object of this sketch to explain.

  IThe first Difference Engine with which am acquainted

comprised a few figures, and was made by myself, between

1820 and June 1822. It consisted of from six to eight

figures. A much larger and more perfect engine was sub

sequently commenced in 1823 for the Government.

   It was proposed that this latter Difference Engine should

have six orders of differences, each consisting of about
twenty places of figures, and also that it should print the

Tables it computed.
   The small portion of it which was placed in the Inter

national Exhibition of 1862 was put together nearly thirty

years ago. It was accompanied by various parts intended to

enable it to print the results it calculated, either as a single
copy on paper --or by putting together moveable types --or by

stereotype plates taken from moulds punched by the machine

--or from copper plates impressed by it. The parts neces

sary for the execution of each of these processes were made,

but these were not at that time attached to the calculating
part of the machine.

   A considerable number of the parts by which the printing

was to be accomplished, as also several specimens of portions
of tables punched on copper, and of stereotype moulds, were

exhibited in a glass case adjacent to the Engine.

   In 1834 Dr. Lardner published, in the ' Edinburgh Review,' *
a very elaborate description of this portion of the machine,

in which he explained clearly the method of Differences.

  It is very singular that two persons, one resident in London,

the other in Sweden, should both have been struck, on reading
this review, with the simplicity of the mathematical principle

                   * ' Edinburgh Review,' No. cxx., July, 1834.
48 MR. DEACON-- MR. SCHEUTZ.

of differences as applied to the calculation of Tables, and
should have been so fascinated with it as to have undertaken

to construct a machine of the kind.

    Mr. Deacon, of Beaufort House, Strand, whose mechanical
skill is well known, made, for his own satisfaction, a small
model of the calculating part of such a machine, which was

Ishown only to a few friends, and of the existence of which

was not aware until after the Swedish machine was brought
to London.

    Mr. Scheutz, an eminent printer at Stockholm, had far
greater difficulties to encounter. The construction of me
chanism, as well as the mathematical part of the question,
was entirely new to him. He, however, undertook to make
a machine having four differences, and fourteen places of
figures, and capable of printing its own Tables.

   After many years' indefatigable labour, and an almost
ruinous expense, aided by grants from his Government, by
the constant assistance of his son, and by the support of
many enlightened members of the Swedish Academy, he

completed his Difference Engine. It was brought to London,

and some time afterwards exhibited at the great Exhibition

at Paris. It was then purchased for the Dudley Observatory

at Albany by an enlightened and public-spirited merchant of
that city, John F. Rathbone, Esq.

   An exact copy of this machine was made by Messrs.
Donkin and Co., for the English Government, and is now in

use in the Registrar-General's Department at Somerset House.

It is very much to be regretted that this specimen of English

workmanship was not exhibited in the International Exhibi

tion.
ARITHMETICAL TABLES.  49

                Explanation of the Difference Engine.

    Those who are only familiar with ordinary arithmetic may,
by following out with the pen some of the examples which
will be given, easily make themselves acquainted with the

simple principles on which the Difference Engine acts.

  It is necessary to state distinctly at the outset, that the

Difference Engine is not intended to answer special questions.
Its object is to calculate and print a series of results formed
according to given laws. These are called Tables -- many

such are in use in various trades. For example --there are

collections of Tables of the amount of any number of pounds
from 1 to 100 lbs. of butchers' meat at various prices per lb.
Let us examine one of these Tables : viz. -- the price of meat
M. per lb., we find

Number.     Table.
    LbB.     Price.

        1     ». <L

      2    .0 5
      3
     4       0 10
      5
             13

             18

             21

  There are two ways of computing this Table :--

   1st. We might have multiplied the number of lbs. in each
line by 5, the price per lb., and have put down the result in
I. 8. d., as in the 2nd column : or,

   2nd. We might have put down the price of 1 lb., which
is 5d., and have added five pence for each succeeding lb.

   Let us now examine the relative advantages of each plan.
We shall find that if we had multiplied each number of lbs. in
50 DIFFERENCES.

the Table by 5, and put down the resulting amount, then

every number in the Table would have been computed inde
pendently. If, therefore, an error had been committed, it

would not have affected any but the single tabular number at

which it had been made. On the other hand, if a single
error had occurred in the system of computing by adding five

at each step, any such error would have rendered the whole

of the rest of the Table untrue.

   Thus the system of calculating by differences, which is the

easiest, is much more liable to error. It has, on the other

hand, this great advantage: viz., that when the Table has

been so computed, if we calculate its last term directly, and
if it agree with the last term found by the continual addition

of 5, we shall then be quite certain that every term through
out is correct. In the system of computing each term

directly, we possess no such check upon our accuracy.

   Now the Table we have been considering5555        in fact, merely
                                                is,
   Table whose first difference       constant and equal to five.
a  it
                   it

                                  is
If we express in pence becomes --

      Table.                          let Difference.

      5 43 2 1
                        5
                                                  10
                                                  15a
                                                  20
                                                  25

Any machine, therefore, which could add one number to
another, and at the same time retain the original number
called the first difference for the next operation, would be
able to compute all such Tables.

   Let us now consider another form of Table which might
readily occur to boy playing with his marbles, or to a young
lady with the balls of her solitaire board.
                 GROUPS OF MARBLES.      51

   The boy may place a row of his marbles on the sand, at
equal distances from each other, thus --

          ··· · ·

He might then, beginning with the second, place two other

marbles under each, thus--

      · AA A A

He might then, beginning with the third, place three other

marbles under each group, and so on ; commencing always
one group later, and making the addition one marble more

each time. The several groups would stand thus arranged --

** SSm           +ma                 m

   He will not fail to observe that he has thus formed a series
of triangular groups, every group having an equal number of
marbles in each of its three sides. Also that the side of each
successive group contains one more marble than that of its

preceding group.
   Now an inquisitive boy would naturally count the numbers

in each group and he would find them thus --

1 3 6 10 15 21

He might also want to know how many marbles the

Ithirtieth or any other distant group might contain. Perhaps

he might go to papa to obtain this information ; but much

fear papa would snub him, and would tell him that it was
nonsense --that it was useless -- that nobody knew the number,
Ifand so forth.
                 the boy is told by papa, that he is not able
Ito answer the question, then recommend him to pay careful

attention to whatever that father may at any time say, for he

has overcome two of the greatest obstacles to the acquisition

                                     E2
52 SECOND DIFFERENCE CONSTANT.

of knowledge--inasmuch as he possesses the consciousness
that he does not know --and he has the moral courage to

avow it.*

  If papa fail to inform him, let him go to mamma, who will

not fail to find means to satisfy her darling's curiosity. In the

meantime the author of this sketch will endeavour to lead his

young friend to make use of his own common sense for the

purpose of becoming better acquainted with the triangular

figures he has formed with his marbles.

   In the case of the Table of the price of butchers' meat, it

was obvious that it could be formed by adding the same con

stant difference continually to the first term. Now suppose

we place the numbers of our groups of marbles in a column,

as we did our prices of various weights of meat. Instead of

adding a certain difference, as we did in the former case, let

us subtract the figures representing each group of marbles

from the figures of the succeeding group in the Table.  The
process will stand thus : --

Number of the            Table.        1st Difference. 2nd Difference
     Group.    Number of Marbles  Difference between the

                  in each Group.    number of Marbles in
                                    each Group and that
                                    in the next.

1 111

232 1

363 1

4 10 4 1

5 15 5 1

6 21                                        6

7 28                                        7

It is usual to call the third column thus formed the column of

I* The most remarkable instance   ever met with of the distinctness

with which any individual perceived the exact boundary of his own know

ledge, was that of the late Dr. Wollaston.
TRIANGULAR NUMBERS.                                         53

first differences. It is evident in the present instance that

that column represents the natural numbers. But we already

know that the first difference of the natural numbers is con

stant and equal to unity. It appears, therefore, that a Table

of these numbers, representing the group of marbles, might be

constructed to any extent by mere addition --using the
number 1 as the first number of the Table, the number 1 as

the first Difference, and also the number 1 as the second
Difference, which last always remains constant.

   Now as we could find the value of any given number of
pounds of meat directly, without going through all the pre

vious part of the Table, so by a somewhat different rule we
can find at ence the value of any group whose number is

........given.           number   of marbles  in the fifth
  Thus, if we require the
group, proceed thus :--
, Take the number of the group                          5

Add 1 to this number, it becomes                        6

, Multiply these numbers together . . . 2)30

Divide the product by 2                       15

This gives 15, the number of marbles in the 5th group.

If the reader will take the trouble to calculate with his

pencil the five groups given above, he will soon perceive

the general truth of this rule.
   We have now arrived at the fact that this Table -- like that

of the price of butchers' meat --can be calculated by two

different methods. By the first, each number of the Table is

calculated independently : by the second, the truth of each

number depends upon the truth of all the previous numbers.

Perhaps my young friend may now ask me, What is the

use of such Tables ? Until he has advanced further in his
54 SQUARE NUMBERS.

arithmetical studies, he must take for granted that they are

of some use. The very Table about which he has been rea

soning possesses a special name --it is called a Table of Tri

angular Numbers. Almost every general collection of Tables

hitherto published contains portions of it of more or less extent.

   Above a century ago, a volume in small quarto, containing

the first 20,000 triangular numbers, was published at the

Hague by E. De Joncourt, A.M., and Professor of Philosophy.*

I cannot resist quoting the author's enthusiastic expression of

the happiness he enjoyed in composing his celebrated work :
   " The Trigonals here to be found, and nowhere else, are

" exactly elaborate. Let the candid reader make the best

I" of these numbers, and feel (if possible) in perusing my work

" the pleasure had in composing it."
   " That sweet joy may arise from Buch contemplations

" cannot be denied. Numbers and lines have many charms,
" unseen by vulgar eyes, and only discovered to the unwearied

" and respectful sons of Art. In features the serpentine line
"
"  (who starts  not at  the name) produces  beauty and love ; and
   in numbers,   high   powers, and humble  roots, give soft delight.

   "Lo! the raptured arithmetician! Easily satisfied, he

" asks no Brussels lace, nor a coach and six. To calculate,
" contents his liveliest desires, and obedient numbers are
" within his reach."

  I hope my young friend is acquainted with the fact --that

the product of any number multiplied by itself is called the

Isquare of that number. Thus 36 is the product of 6 multi
plied by 6, and 36 is called the square of 6.     would now

recommend him to examine the series of square numbers

                1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, &c,

   * ' On the Nature and Notable Use of the most Simple Trigonal Num
bers.' By E. De Joncourt, at the Ha^uc. 1762.
                     CANNON BALLS.                      55

and to make, for his own instruction, the series of their first

and second differences, and then to apply to it the same rea
soning which has been already applied to the Table of Tri

angular Numbers.

  IWhen he feels that he has mastered that Table, shall be

happy to accompany mamma's darling to Woolwich or to
Portsmouth, where he will find some practical illustrations of
the use of his newly-acquired numbers. He will find scat
tered about in the Arsenal various heaps of cannon balls,
some of them triangular, others square or oblong pyramids.

   Looking on the simplest form -- the triangular pyramid -- he
will observe that it exactly represents his own heaps of
marbles placed each successively above one another until the
top of the pyramid contains only a single balL

   The new series thus formed by the addition of his own
triangular numbers is --

Number.    Table.    1st Difference.  2nd Difference.   3rd Difference.
        1                                       3                  1
                  1          3                                   1
      2                                        4                   1
      3        4               6                5
     4        10
      5      20              10                     6*
      6      35
             56              15
                             21

   He will at once perceive that this Table of the number of

cannon balls contained in a triangular pyramid can be car
ried to any extent by simply adding successive differences,
the third of which is constant.

   The next step will naturally be to inquire how any number
in this Table can be calculated by itself. A little consider

ation will lead him to a fair guess ; a little industry will
enable him to confirm his conjecture.

   It will be observed at p. 49 that in order to find inde
50 NUMBER IN EACH PILE.

pendently any number of the Table of the price of butchers'

meat, the following rule was observed :--

Take the number whose tabular number is required.

Multiply it by the first difference.

...This product is equal to the required tabular number.

   Again, at p. 53, the rule for finding any triangular number
was : --
Take the number of the group                       5

Add 1 to this number, it becomes         ..        6

Multiply these numbers together . . . 2)30

Divide the product by 2  .            .  .  .      15

   This is the number of marbles in the 5th group.
   Now let us make a bold conjecture respecting the Table of

cannon balls, and try this rule :--

....Take the number whose tabular number is        5
    required, say                                  6
Add 1 to that number
Add 1 more to that number                          7

Multiply all three numbers together      .  . 2)210
Divide by 2                                       105

   The real number in the 5th pyramid is 35. But the

number 105 at which we have arrived is exactly three times
as great. If, therefore, instead of dividing by 2 we had

divided by 2 and also by 3, we should have arrived at a true

result in this instance.
   The amended rule is therefore --
                 ASTRONOMICAL TABLES.                    57

Take the number whose tabular number is

   required, say                         n
Add 1 to it                              n+ 1
                                         n+2
Add ltothis

Multiply these three numbers

together          ..          . n x (n + 1) X (n + 2)

Divide by 1 x 2 x 3.          . »<»+l)fr + 9
                                                      o
The result is . .                                             '

This rule will, upon trial, be found to give correctly every

tabular number.

   By similar reasoning we might arrive at the knowledge of
the number of cannon balls in square and rectangular
pyramids. But it is presumed that enough has been stated
to enable the reader to form some general notion of . the

method of calculating arithmetical Tables by differences

which are constant.

  It may now be stated that mathematicians have discovered

that all the Tables most important for practical purposes, such

as those relating to Astronomy and Navigation, can, although
they may not possess any constant differences, still be calcu
lated in detached portions by that method.

   Hence the importance of having machinery to calculate by

differences, which, if well made, cannot err ; and which, if care

lessly set, presents in the last term it calculates the power of

verification of every antecedent term.

   Of the Mechanical Arrangements necessary for computing
                  Tables by the Method of Differences.

  From the preceding explanation it appears that all Tables

may be calculated, to a greater or less extent, by the method
of Differences. That method requires, for its successful
58 ADDITION.                                                       *

execution, little beyond mechanical means of performing the
arithmetical operation of Addition. Subtraction can, by the
aid of a well-known artifice, be converted into Addition.

   The process of Addition includes two distinct parts --
1st. The first consists of the addition of any one digit to
another digit ; 2nd. The second consists in carrying the tens
to the next digit above.

   Let us take the case of the addition of the two following
numbers, in which no carriages occur : --

                                               6023
                                               1970

                                               7993

   It will be observed that, in making this addition, the mind

acts by successive steps. The person adding says to himself--
                                   0 and 3 make three,
                                   7 and 2 make nine,
                                   9 and 0 make nine,
                                   1 and 6 make seven.

   In the following addition there are several carriages :--

                                               2648
                                               4564

                                               7212

    The person adding says to himself--
                      4 and 8 make 12 : put down 2 and carry one.

    1 and 6 are 7 and 4 make 11 : put down 1 and carry one.
    1 and 5 are 6 and 6 make 12 : put down 2 and carry one.
    1 and 4 are 5 and 2 make 7 : put down 7.

    Now, the length of time required for adding one number to
another is mainly dependent upon the number of figures to
             CARRIAGE.                                59

Ifbe added.  we could tell the average time required by

the mind to add two figures together, the time required for

adding any given number of figures to another equal number

would be found by multiplying that average time by the

number of digits in either number.

When we attempt to perform such additions by machinery

we might follow exactly the usual process of the human mind.

In that case we might take a series of wheels, each having

marked on its edges the digits 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.

These wheels might be placed above each other upon an axis.

The lowest would indicate the units' figure, the next above

the tens, and so on, as in the Difference Engine at the

Exhibition, a woodcut of which faces the title-page.

Several such axes, with their figure wheels, might be

placed around a system of central wheels, with which the

wheels of any one or more axes might at times be made to

gear. Thus the figures on any one axis might, by means of

those central wheels, be added to the figure wheels of any

other axis.

But it may fairly be expected, and it is indeed of great

importance that calculations made by machinery should not

merely be exact, but that they should be done in a much

shorter time than those performed by the human mind. Sup

pose there were no tens to carry, as in the first of the two

cases ; then, if we possessed mechanism capable of adding any

one digit to any other in the units' place of figures, a similar

mechanism might be placed above it to add the tens' figures,

and so on for as many figures as might be required.

But in this case, since there are no carriages, each digit

might be added to its corresponding digit at the same time.

Thus, the time of adding by means of mechanism, any two

numbers, however many figures they might consist of, would
60 SUCCESSIVE CARRIAGE.

Ifnot exceed that of adding a single digit to another digit.

this could be accomplished it would render additions and
subtractions with numbers having ten, twenty, fifty, or any
number of figures, as rapid as those operations are with single

figures.

   Let us now examine the case in which there were several
carriages. Its successive stages may be better[explained, thus --

                                    2648

                                    4584

Stages.

   1 Add units' figure = 4 . . . 2642

2 Carry                                1

3 Add tens' figure = 8              2652
                                        8

4 Carry                             2632

                                       1

                                    2732

5 Add hundreds' figure = 5    .  .  5

6 Carry                             2232

                                    1

                                                                           3232

7 Add thousands' figure = 4 . . 4

                                    7232

8 Carry 0. There is no carr.

     as in this case, all the carriages were known,
Nowit
             if,

                                                                                           :

                                                                                     it
would then be possible to make all the additions of digits at

the same time, provided we could also record each carriage as

became due. We might then complete the addition by

adding, at the same instant, each carriage in its proper place.
The process would then stand thus --
                  SUCCESSIVE CARRIAGE.                     61

                  2648
                  4564

Stages            6102   Add each digit to the digit above.
                  111    Record the carriages.
      1

2 { 7212 Add the above carriages.

Now, whatever mechanism is contrived for adding any one

digit to any other must, of course, be able to add the largest

digit, nine, to that other digit. Supposing, therefore, one

unit of number to be passed over in one second of time, it is

evident that any number of pairs of digits may be added

together in nine seconds, and that, when all the consequent

carriages are known, as in the above case, it will cost one

second more to make those carriages. Thus, addition and

carriage would be completed in ten seconds, even though the

numbers consisted each of a hundred figures.

But, unfortunately, there are multitudes of cases in which

the carriages that become due are only known in successive

periods of time.  As an example,  add together  the two follow
                                                    8473
ing numbers :--

                                                1528

Stages                                          9991

   1 Add all the digits

2 Carry on tens and warn next car.              1

3 Carry on hundreds, and ditto .                9901

                                                  1

4 Carry on thousands, and ditto .               9001

                                                1

5 Carry on ten thousands                            00001

                                              .1

                                                10001
62 SUCCESSIVE CARRIAGE.

   In this case the carriages only become known successively,

and they amount to the number of figures to be added ; con
sequently, the mere addition of two numbers, each of fifty
places of figures, would require only nine seconds of time,
whilst the possible carriages would consume fifty seconds.

  IThe mechanical means employed to make these carriages

bears some slight analogy to the operation of the faculty of

memory. A toothed wheel had the ten digits marked upon

its edge ; between the nine and the zero a projecting tooth
was placed. Whenever any wheel, in receiving addition,

passed from nine to zero, the projecting tooth pushed over a
certain lever. Thus, as soon as the nine seconds of time re

quired for addition were ended, every carriage which had
become due was indicated by the altered position of its lever.
An arm now went round, which was so contrived that the
act of replacing that lever caused the carriage which its
position indicated to be made to the next figure above.
But this figure might be a nine, in which case, in passing to
zero, it would put over its lever, and so on. By placing the
arms spirally round an axis, these successive carriages were

accomplished.
    Multitudes of contrivances were designed, and almost

endless drawings made, for the purpose of economizing the
time and simplifying the mechanism of carriage. In that
portion of the Difference Engine in the Exhibition of 1862
the time of carriage has been reduced to about one-fourth
part of what was at first required.

   At last having exhausted, during years of labour, the
principle of successive carriages, it occurred to me that it

might be possible to teach mechanism to accomplish another
 mental process, namely--to foresee. This idea occurred to

me in October, 1834. It cost me much thought, but the
ANTICIPATING CARRIAGE.  G3

principle was arrived at in a short time. As soon as that was
attained, the next step was to teach the mechanism which
could foresee to act upon that foresight. This was not so
difficult : certain mechanical means were soon devised which,

although very far from simple, were yet sufficient to demon
strate the possibility of constructing such machinery.

   The process of simplifying this form of carriage occupied
me, at intervals, during a long series of years. The demands
of the Analytical Engine, for the mechanical execution of
arithmetical operations, were of the most extensive kind.
The multitude of similar parts required by the Analytical
Engine, amounting in some instances to upwards of fifty
thousand, rendered any, even the simplest, improvement of
each part a matter of the highest importance, more especially
as regarded the diminished amount of expenditure for its

construction.

 Description of the existing portion of Difference Engine No. 1.

   That portion of Difference Engine, No. 1, which during the
last twenty years has been in the museum of King's College,
at Somerset House, is represented in the woodcut opposite
the title page.

  It consists of three columns; each column contains six

cages ; each cage contains one figure-wheeL
   The column on the right hand has its lowest figure-wheel

covered by a shade which is never removed, and to which the
reader's attention need not be directed.

   The figure-wheel next above may be placed by hand at any

one of the ten digits. In the woodcut it stands at zero.

   The third, fourth, and fifth cages are exactly the same as

the second.

    The sixth cage contains exactly the same as the four just
64 DIFFERENCE ENGINE NO. 1.

described. It also contains two other figure-wheels, which

with a similar one above the frame, may also be dismissed
from the reader's attention. Those wheels are entirely un
connected with the moving part of the engine, and are only
used for memoranda.

  It appears, therefore, that there are in the first column on

the right hand five figure-wheels, each of which may be set
by hand to any of the figures 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.

   The lowest of these figure-wheels represents the unit's
figure of any number ; the next above the ten's figure, and so
on. The highest figure-wheel will therefore represent tens
of thousands.

   Now, as each of these figure-wheels may be set by hand to
any digit, it is possible to place on the first column any

number up to 99999. It is on these wheels that the Table

to be calculated by the engine is expressed. This column is
called the Table column, and the axis of the wheels the Table

axis.

   The second or middle column has also six cages, in each of

which a figure-wheel is placed. It will be observed that in

the lowest cage, the figure on the wheel is concealed by a

shade. It may therefore be dismissed from the attention.

The five other figure-wheels are exactly like the figure-wheels
on the Table axis, and can also represent any number up to

99999.

   This column is called the First Difference column, and the
axis is called the First Difference axis.

   The third column, which is that on the left hand, has also
six cages, in each of which is a figure-wheel capable of being
set by hand to any digit.

   The mechanism is so contrived that whatever may be the
numbers placed respectively on the figure-wheels of each of
DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.                                                          65

the three columns, the following succession of operations will
take place as long as the handle is moved :--

    1st. Whatever number is found upon the column of first
differences will be added to the number found upon the
Table column.

2nd. The same first difference remaining upon its own

column, the number found upon the column of second differ

ences will be added to that first difference.

  It appears, therefore, that with this small portion of the

Engine any Table may be computed by the method of differ

ences, provided neither the Table itself, nor its first and second

differences, exceed five places of figures.

  If the whole Engine had been completed it would have had

six orders of differences, each of twenty places of figures,

whilst the three first columns would each have had half a

dozen additional figures.
   This is the simplest explanation of that portion of the

Difference Engine No. 1, at the Exhibition of 1862. There

are, however, certain modifications in this fragment which

render its exhibition more instructive, and which even give a

Imechanical insight into those higher powers with which had

endowed it in its complete state.

it
        is it

                                        a

                                                        ; it,

                                                                            F
                                                                              is
As a matter of convenience in exhibiting          there                           an

arrangement by which the three upper figures of the second

difference are transformed into small engine which counts

the natural numbers.

By this means can be set to compute any Table whose

second difference constant and less than 1000, whilst at the

same time thus shows the position in the Table of each

tabular number.                                   they can be

   In the existing portion there are three bells

respectively ordered to ring when the Table, its first difference
66 DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.

and its second difference, pass from positive to negative.

Several weeks after the machine had been placed in my draw

ing-room, a friend came by appointment to test its power of

calculating Tables. After the Engine had computed several
ITables, remarked that it was evidently finding the root of a
Iquadratic equation ;
                       therefore set the bells to watch it.

After some time the proper bell sounded twice, indicating,

and giving the two positive roots to be 28 and 30. The Table

thus calculated related to the barometer and really involved a

Iquadratic equation, although its maker had not previously
observed it.  afterwards set the Engine to tabulate a for

Imula containing impossible roots, and of course the other
bell warned me when it had attained those roots.   had
Inever before used these bells, simply because did not think

the power it thus possessed to be of any practical utility.
   Again, the lowest cages of the Table, and of the first differ

ence, have been made use of for the purpose of illustrating

three important faculties of the finished engine.

1st, The portion exhibited can calculate any Table whose

third difference is constant and less than 10.

  2nd. It can be used to show how much more rapidly astro

nomical Tables can be calculated in an engine in which there

is no constant difference.

  3rd. It can be employed to illustrate those singular laws

which might continue to be produced through ages, and yet
after an enormous interval of time change into other dif

ferent laws; each again to exist for ages, and then to be

superseded by new laws. These views were first proposed in
the " Ninth Bridgewater Treatise."

  IAmongst the various questions which have been asked

respecting the Difference Engine, will mention a few of
the most remarkable :--One gentleman addressed me thus :
                   CURIOUS QUESTIONS.                    67

"Pray, Mr. Babbage, can you explain to me in two words
" what is the principle of this machine ?" Had the querist

Ipossessed a moderate acquaintance with mathematics might

in four words have conveyed to him the required information

by answering, "The method of differences." The question
might indeed have been answered with six characters thus --

                   A7u, = 0.

but such information would have been unintelligible to such

inquirers.

  IOn two occasions have been asked, --" Pray, Mr. Babbage,

" if you put into the machine wrong figures, will the right
" answers come out ?" In one case a member of the Upper,

Iand in the other a member of the Lower, House put this
question.  am not able rightly to apprehend the kind of
Iconfusion of ideas that could provoke such a question.
                                                         did,

however, explain the following property, which might in some

measure approach towards an answer to it.

  It is possible to construct the Analytical Engine in such a

manner that after the question is once communicated to the

engine, it may be stopped at any turn of the handle and set
on again as often as may be desired. At each stoppage every

figure-wheel throughout the Engine, which is capable of being

moved   without breaking, may be moved on to any other
digit.  Yet after each of these apparent falsifications the
engine  will be found to make the next calculation with

perfect truth.
   The explanation is very simple, and the property itself

useless. The whole of the mechanism ought of course to be

enclosed in glass, and kept under lock and key, in which case
the mechanism necessary to give it the property alluded to

would be useless.

                                       f2
                             CHAPTER VI.

      Statement relative to the Difference Engine, drawn up by the late
                        Sir H. Nicolas from the Author's Papers.

The following statement was drawn up by the late Sir
Harris Nicolas, G.S.M. & G., from papers and documents in

Imy possession relating to the Difference Engine. believe
Ievery paper possessed at all bearing on the subject was in

his hands for several months.

   For some time previous to 1822, Mr. Babbage had been
engaged in contriving machinery for the execution of exten
sive arithmetical operations, and in devising mechanism by
which the machine that made the calculations might also
print the results.

   On the 3rd of July, 1822, he published a letter to Sir
Humphry Davy, President of the Royal Society, containing
a statement of his views on that subject ; and more particu
larly describing an Engine for calculating astronomical, nau
tical, and other Tables, by means of the " method of differ
ences." In that letter it is stated that a small Model, con
sisting of six figures, and capable of working two orders of
differences, had been constructed ; and that it performed its
work in a satisfactory manner.

   The concluding paragraph of that letter is as follows :--
  I" Whether shall construct a larger Engine of this kind, and bring to
                DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.                               C9

Iperfection the others have described, will, in a great measure, depend on
Ithe

   "
nature of  the  encouragement       may receive.    of such  Engines,  to with
Induced,   by   a conviction of  the great utility

draw, for some time, my attention from a subject on which it has been

Iengaged during several years, and which possesses charms of a higher order,

   have now arrived at a point where success is no longer doubtful. It
must, however, be attained at a very considerable expense, which would not

probably be replaced, by the works it might produce, for a long period of

time ; and which is an undertaking I should feel unwilling to commence,

as altogether foreign to my habits and pursuits."

   The Model alluded to had been shown to a large number
of Mr. Babbage's acquaintances, and to many other persons ;
and copies of his letter having been given to several of his
friends, it is probable that one of the copies was sent to the

Treasury.

   On the 1st of April, 1823, the Lords of the Treasury re
ferred that Letter to the Royal Society, requesting --

   " The opinion of the Royal Society on the merits and utility of this
invention."

   On the 1st of May the Boyal Society reported to the Trea
sury, that --

   " Mr. Babbage has displayed great talent and ingenuity in the construc
tion of his Machine for Computation, which the Committee think fully
adequate to the attainment of the objects proposed by the inventor ; and
they consider Mr. Babbage as highly deserving of public encouragement,
in the prosecution of his arduous undertaking." *

   On the 21st of May these papers were ordered to be printed

by the House of Commons.

   In July, 1823, Mr. Babbage had an interview with the
Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Bobinsont), to ascertain if

it was the wish of the Government that he should construct a

large Engine of the kind, which would also print the results

it calculated.

* Parliamentary Paper, No. 370, printed 22nd May; 1823.
f Afterwards Lord Godcrich, now Earl of Ripon.
70 STATEMENT.

   From the conversation which took place on that occasion,
Mr. Babbage apprehended that such was the wish of the Go
vernment. The Chancellor of the Exchequer remarked that
the Government were in general unwilling to make grants of

money for any inventions, however meritorious ; because, if

they really possessed the merit claimed for them, the sale of
the article produced would be the best, as well as largest
reward of the inventor: but that the present case was an
exception ; it being apparent that the construction of such a
Machine could not be undertaken with a view to profit from
the sale of its produce ; and that, as mathematical Tables
were peculiarly valuable for nautical purposes, it was deemed
a fit object of encouragement by the Government.

   The Chancellor of the Exchequer mentioned two modes of
advancing money for the construction :-- either through the
recommendation of a Committee of the House of Commons,
or by taking a sum from the Civil Contingencies : and he ob
served that, as the Session of Parliament was near its termina
tion, the latter course might, perhaps, be the most convenient.

   Mr. Babbage thinks the Chancellor of the Exchequer also
made some observation, indicating that the amount of money
taken from the Civil Contingencies would be smaller than
that which might be had by means of a Committee of the
House of Commons: and he then proposed to take 1,000£ as
a commencement from the Civil Contingencies Fund. To this
Mr. Babbage replied, in words which he distinctly remembers,
" Would it be too much, in the first instance, to take 1,500Z. ?"
The Chancellor of the Exchequer immediately answered, that

1,500Z. should be advanced.

   Mr. Babbage's opinion at that time was, that the Engine
would be completed in two, or at the most in three years ;
and that by having 1,5007. in the first instance, he would be
DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.  71

enabled to advance, from his own private funds, the residue
of the 3,000Z., or even 5,000Z., which he then imagined the
Engine might possibly cost ; so that he would not again have
occasion to apply to Government until it was completed.

Some observations were made by the Chancellor of the Ex
chequer about the mode of accounting for the money received,
as well as about its expenditure ; but it seemed to be ad
mitted that it was not possible to prescribe any very definite
system, and that much must be left to Mr. Babbage's own

judgment.
   Very unfortunately, no Minute of that conversation was

made at the time, nor was any sufficiently distinct under
standing between the parties arrived at. Mr. Babbage's con
viction was, that whatever might be the labour and difficulty
of the undertaking, the Engine itself would, of course, be
come the property of the Government, which had paid for its

construction.

    Soon after this interview with the Chancellor of the

Exchequer, a letter was sent from the Treasury to the Royal
Society, informing that body that the Loids of the Treasury

    " Had directed the issue of 1,500Z. to Mr. Babbage, to enable him to bring
his invention to perfection, in the manner recommended."

   These latter words, " in the manner recommended," can only
refer to the previous recommendation of the Royal Society ;
but it does not appear, from the Report of the Royal Society,
that any plan, terms, or conditions had been pointed out by

that body.

    Towards the end of July, 1823, Mr. Babbage took measures
for the construction of the present Difference Engine,* and it
 was regularly proceeded with for four years.

* See Note on next page.
72 STATEMENT.

   In October, 1827, the expense incurred had amounted to
3,475?. ; and Mr. Babbage having suffered severe domestic
affliction, and being in a very ill state of health, was recom

mended by his medical advisers to travel on "the Continent.
He left, however, sufficient drawings to enable the work to
be continued, and gave an order to his own banker to advance
1,000?. during his absence: he also received, from time to
time, drawings and inquiries relating to the mechanism, and
returned instructions to the engineer who was constructing it.

   As it now appeared probable that the expense would much
exceed what Mr. Babbage had originally anticipated, he
thought it desirable to inform the Government of that fact,
and to procure a further grant. As a preliminary step, he
wrote from Italy to his brother-in-law, Mr. Wolryche Whit-
more, to request that he would see Lord Goderich upon the
subject of the interview in July, 1823 ; but it is probable
that he did not sufficiently inform Mr. Whitmore of all the
circumstances of the case.

   Mr. Whitmore, having had some conversation with Lord
Goderich on the subject, addressed a letter, dated on the 29th
of February, 1828, to Mr. Babbage, who was then at Rorne,
stating that

   " That interview was unsatisfactory ; that Lord Goderich did not like to

admit that there was any understanding, at the time the 1,500?. was
advanced, that more would be given by Government."

   On Mr. Babbage's return to England, towards the end of

  Note. --It will be convenient to distinguish between --

       1. The small Model of the original or Difference Engine.
       2. The Difference Engine itself, belonging to the Government, a part

              only of which has been put together.
       3. The designs for another Engine, which in this Statement is called

             the Analytical Engine.
            DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.                               73

1828, he waited in person upon Lord Goderich, who admitted
that the understanding of 1823 was not very definite. He
then addressed a statement to the Duke of Wellington, as the
head of the Government, explaining the previous steps in the
affair ; stating the reasons for his inferences from what took

place at the interview with the Chancellor of the Exchequer
in July, 1823 ; and referring his Grace for further informa
tion to Lord Goderich, to whom also he sent a copy of that

statement.

    The Duke of Wellington, in consequence of this applica
tion, requested the Royal Society to inquire --

   " Whether the progress of the Machine confirms them in their former
opinion, that it will ultimately prove adequate to the important object it

was intended to attain."

   The Royal Society reported, in February, 1829, that --
   " They had not the slightest hesitation in pronouncing their decided

opinion in the affirmative."

   The Royal Society also expressed their hope that --

   " Whilst Mr. Babbage's mind is intensely occupied in an undertaking
likely to do so much honour to his country, he may be relieved, as much as
possible, from all other sources of anxiety."

   On the 28th of April, 1829, a Treasury Minute directed a
further payment to Mr. Babbage of

"           to enable him to complete   the Machine by which such  important

   1.500Z.

benefit to Science might be expected."

   At that time the sum expended on the Engine amounted

to 6,697Z. 12a., of which 3,000Z. had been received from the

Treasury ; so that Mr. Babbage had provided 3,697Z. 12s.

from his own private funds.
   Under these circumstances, by the advice of Mr. Wolryche

Whitmore, a meeting of Mr. Babbage's personal friends was

held on the 12th of May, 1829. It consisted of--
74 STATEMENT.

                  The Duke op Somerset,
                  Lord Ashley,

                  Sir John Franklin,
                  Mr. Wolryche Whitmore,
                  Dr. Fitton,
                  Mr. Francis Baily,
                  Mr. (now Sir John) Herschel.

   Being satisfied, upon inquiry, of the following facts, they

came to the annexed resolutions :--

" 1st. That Mr. Babbage was originally induced to take up the work, on

its present extensive scale, by an understanding on his part that it was the

wish of Government that he should do so, and by an advance of 1,500Z, at
the outset ; with a full impression on his mind, that such further advances

would be    made  as the work might require.      had  amounted  to nearly 7,000/.,
                  Mr. Babbage's expenditure
   " 2nd.   That

while the whole sum advanced by Government was         3,0001.    and anxious
                                                       assiduous
   " 3rd. That Mr. Babbage had devoted the most

attention to the progress of the Engine, to the injury of his health, and the

neglect and refusal of other profitable occupations.
   " 4th. That a very large expense remained to be incurred ; and that his

private fortune was not such as would justify his completing the Engine,

without further   and effectual assistance   from  Government.         be  made  to
                  a personal application    upon   the subject should
   " 5th. That

the   Duke   of Wellington.           should  be   unsuccessful  in procuring effec
      6th.
   "        That if such application

tual and adequate assistance, they must regard Mr. Babbage (considering

the great pecuniary and personal sacrifices he will then have made; the

entire expenditure of all he had received from the public on the subject

of its destination ; and the moral certainty of completing       if it,
                                                                                     it
                                                                       to which

was, by his exertions, reduced) as no longer called on to proceed with an
undertaking which might destroy his health, and injure, not ruin, his

for"tu7nteh.. That Mr. Wolryche Whitmore and Mr. Herschel should request

an interview with the Duke of Wellington, to state to his Grace these

opinions on the subject."

Mr. Whitmore and Mr. Herschel accordingly had an inter

view with the Duke of Wellington and some time after they
                                              ;

                  by
were informed the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to whom

they had applied for his Grace's answer, that the Duke of
DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.  75

Wellington intended to see the portion of the Engine which
had been then made.

   In November, 1829, the Duke of Wellington, accompanied

by the Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Goulburn) and
Lord Ashley, saw the Model of the Engine, the drawings, and
the parts in progress. On the 23rd of that month Mr. Babbage
received a note from Mr. Goulburn, dated on the 20th, in

forming him that the Duke of Wellington and himself had
recommended the Treasury to make a further payment to
wards the completion of the Machine ; and that their Lord
ships had in consequence directed a payment of 3,000Z. to be
made to him. This letter also contained a suggestion about
separating the Calculating from the Printing part of the
Machine, which was repeated in the letter from the Treasury
of the 3rd of December, 1829, communicating officially the
information contained in Mr. Goulburn's private note, and

stating that directions had been given--

    " To pay to you the further sum of 3,0003., to enable you to complete

 the Machine which you have invented for the calculation of various tables ;

Ibut have to intimate to you that, in making this additional payment, my

 Lords think it extremely desirable that the Machine should l>e so con
 structed, that, if any failure should take place in the attempt to print by
 it, the calculating part of the Machine may nevertheless be perfect and
 available for that object."

    Mr. Babbage inferred from this further grant, that Govern
 ment had adopted his view of the arrangement entered into
 with the Chancellor of the Exchequer in July, 1823 ; but, to
 prevent the recurrence of difficulty from any remaining in
 distinctness, he wrote to Mr. Goulburn, stating that, before

 he received the 3,000Z., he wished to propose some general
 arrangements for expediting the completion of the Engine,
 farther notes of which he would shortly submit to him. On

 the 25th of November, 1829, he addressed a letter to Lord
7G STATEMENT.

Ashley, to be communicated to the Chancellor of the Ex
chequer, stating the grounds on which he thought the fol
lowing arrangements desirable :--

   1st. That the Engine should bo considered as the property
of Government.

   2nd. That professional engineers should be appointed by
Government to examine the charges made for the work
already executed, as well as for its future progress ; and that
such charges should be defrayed by Government.

   3rd. That under this arrangement he himself should con

tinue to direct the construction of the Engine, as he had
hitherto done.

   Mr. Babbage also stated that he had been obliged to sus

pend the work for nearly nine months ; and that such delay
risked the final completion of the Engine.

   In reply to these suggestions, Mr. Goulburn wrote to Lord
Ashley, stating --

   " That we (the Government) could not adopt the course which
Mr. Babbage had pointed out, consistently with the principle on which

wc have rendered him assistance in the construction of his Machine, and

without considerable inconvenience.  The view of the Government was, to

assist an able and ingenious man of science, whose zeal had induced him to

exceed the limits of prudence, in the construction of a work which would,

if successful, redound to his honour, and be of great public advantage. We

feel ourselves, therefore, under the necessity of adhering to our original

intention, as expressed in the Minute of the Treasury, which granted

Mr. Babbage the last 3,000?., and in the letter in which I informed him

of that grant."

   Mr. Goulburn's letter was enclosed by Lord Ashley to
Mr. Babbage, with a note, in which his Lordship observed,
with reference to Mr. Goulburn's opinion, that it was

  "A wrong view of the position in which Mr. Babbage was placed, after

his conference with Lord Goderich --which must be explained to him
(Mr. Goulburn)."
DIFFERENCE ENGlNE No. I.         77

   " The original intention " of the Government is here stated

to have been communicated to Mr. Babbage, both in the
letter from the Treasury of the 3rd of December, 1829,
granting the 3,000£, and also in Mr. Goulburn's private letter
of the 20th of November, 1829. These letters have been just
given ; and it certainly does not appear from either of them,
that the " original intention " was then in any degree more
apparent than it was at the commencement of the under

taking in July, 1823.
   On the 16th of December, 1829, Mr. Babbage wrote to

Lord Ashley, observing, that Mr. Goulburn seemed to think
that he [Mr. Babbage] had commenced the machine on his own
account; and that, pursuing it zealously, he had expended
more than was prudent, and had then applied to Govern
ment for aid. He remarked, that a reference to papers and
dates would confirm his own positive declaration, that this
was never for one moment, in his apprehension, the ground
on which the matter rested ; and that the following facts
would prove that it was absolutely impossible it could have
been so :--

     lstly. Mr. Babbage referred to the passage* (already
 quoted) in his letter to Sir Humphry Davy, in which he had
 expressed his opinion as decidedly adverse to the plan of

 making a larger Machine, on his own account.
    2ndly. Mr. Babbage stated that the small Model of the

 Machine seen by the Duke of Wellington and Mr. Goulburn,
 was completed before his interview with Lord Goderich in
 July, 1823 ; for it was alluded to in the Report of the Royal
 Society, of the 1st of May, 1823.

    3rdly. That the interview with Lord Goderich having taken
 place in July, 1823 ; the present Machine e. the Difference
*

                            (i.
Soc pa^e 69.
78 STATEMENT.

Engine) was commenced in consequence of that interview ;
and after Mr. Babbage had received the first grant of 1,500?.
on the 7th of August, 1823.

   Having thus shown that the light in which Mr. Goulburn

viewed these transactions was founded on a misconception,

Mr. Babbage requested Lord Ashley to inquire whether the
facts to which he had called Mr. Goulburn's attention might
not induce him to reconsider the subject. And in case Mr.

Goulburn should decline revising his opinion, then he
wished Lord Ashley to ascertain the opinion of Government,

upon the contingent questions which he enclosed ; viz. --

   1. Supposing Mr. Babbage received the 3,000?. now directed to be issued,
what are the claims which Government will have on the Engine, or on

himself ?
   2. Would Mr. Babbage owe the 6,000?., or any part of that sum to the

Government ?

  If this question be answered in the negative,

   3. Is the portion of the Engine now made, as completely Mr. Babbage's
property as if it had been entirely paid for with his own money ?

   4. Is it expected by Government that Mr. Babbage should continue to
construct the Engine at his own private expense ; and, if so, to what extent

in money ?

   5. Supposing Mr. Babbage should decline resuming the construction of

the Engine, to whom do the drawings and parts already made belong ?

The following statement was also enclosed : --

Expenses up to 9th May, 1829, when the work ceased   .  . * £6,628
Two grants of 1,500?. each, amounting to                   £3,000
By Treasury Minute, Nov. 1829, but not yet received
                                                        . 3,000
                                                                           6,000

                                                        £628

   In January, 1830, Mr. Babbage wrote to Lord Goderich,

   * The difference between this sum and 6,697?. 12s. mentioned in page 73,
seems to have arisen from the fact of the fonner sum having included the
estimated amount of a bill which, when received, was found to be less than
had been anticipated.
                              DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.                79

stating that the Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Goulburn)
would probably apply to his Lordship respecting the inter
view in July, 1823. He therefore recalled some of the cir

cumstances attending it to Lord Goderich, and concluded
thus :--

" The matter was, as you have justly observed on another occasion, left,
Iin a certain measure, indefinite; and
                                                        have never contended that any

promise was made to me. My subsequent conduct was founded upon the
Iimpression left on my mind by that interview.
                                                        always considered that,
I Iwhatever difficulties might encounter, it could never happen that should

Iulti"matuenldyersstuafnfedr  any pecuniary loss.       to ascertain  from your Lordship
                              that Mr. Goulburn wishes
Iwhether, from the nature of that interview, it was reasonable that should

have such expectation."

In the mean time Mr. Babbage had encountered diffi

culties of another kind. The Engineer who had been con

structing the Engine under Mr. Babbage's direction had
delivered his bills in such a state that it was impossible to

judge how far the charges were just and reasonable; and

although Mr. Babbage had paid several thousand pounds, yet

there remained a considerable balance, which he was quite

prepared and willing to pay, as soon as the accounts should
be examined, and the charges approved of by professional

engineers.
   The delay in deciding whether the Engine was the pro

perty of Government, added greatly to this embarrassment.
Mr. Babbage, therefore, wrote to Lord Ashley on the 8th of
February, to mention these difficulties ; and to point out the
serious inconvenience which would arise, in the future progress
of the Engine, from any dispute between the Engineer and
himself relative" to payments.

   On the 24th of February, 1830, Mr. Babbage called on
Lord Ashley, to request he would represent to the Duke of
Wellington the facts of the case, and point out to his Grace
so STATEMENT.

the importance of a decision. In the afternoon of the same

day, he again saw Lord Ashley, who communicated to him the

decision of the Government ; to the following effect : --

     1st. Although the Government would not pledge themselves to

complete the Machine, they were willing to declare it their

property.
    2nd. That professional Engineers should be appointed to ex

amine the bills.

    3rd. That the Government were willing to advance 3,000Z.

more than the sum (GfiOOl.) already granted.
    4th. That, when the Machine was completed, the Govern

ment would be xciUing to attend to any claim of Mr. Babbage to
remuneration, either by bringing it before the Treasury, or the
House of Commons.

    Thus, after considerable discussion, the doubts arising
from the indefiniteness of the understanding with the Chan

cellor of the Exchequer, in July, 1823, were at length
removed. Mr. Babbage's impression of the original arrange
ment entered into between Lord Goderich and himself was
thus formally adopted in the first three propositions : and the
Government voluntarily added the expression of their disposi
tion to attend to any claim of his for remuneration when the
Engine should be completed.

   When the arrangements consequent upon this decision
were made, the work of the Engine was resumed, and con
tinued to advance.

   After some time, the increasing amount of costly drawings,
and of parts of the Engine already executed, remaining
exposed to destruction from fire and from other casualties
became a source of some anxiety.

   These facts having been represented to Lord Althorp
(then Chancellor of the Exchequer), an experienced surveyor
DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.  81

was directed to find a site adapted for a building for the re
ception of the Engine in the neighbourhood of Mr. Babbage's
residence.

    On the 19th of January the Surveyor's reports were for
warded to Lord Althorp (the Chancellor of the Exchequer),
who referred the case to a committee of practical Engineers
for their opinion. This committee reported strongly in favour
of the removal, on the grounds of security, and of economy
in completing the Engine ; and also recommended the site
which had been previously selected by the Surveyor. The
Royal Society, also, to whom Lord Althorp had applied,
examined the question, and likewise reported strongly to the

same effect.

   A lease of some property, adjacent to Mr. Babbage's re

sidence, was therefore subsequently granted by him to the
Government ; and a fire-proof building, capable of containing
the Engine, with its drawings, and workshops necessary for

its completion, were erected.

   With respect to the expenses of constructing the Engine,
the following plan was agreed upon and carried out :--The
great bulk of the work was executed by the Engineer under
the direction of Mr. Babbage. When the bills were sent in,
they were immediately forwarded by him to two eminent
Engineers, Messrs. Donkih and Field, who, at the request of
Government, had undertaken to examine their accuracy.
On these gentlemen certifying those bills to be correct,
Mr. Babbage transmitted them to the Treasury ; and after the
usual forms, a warraut was issued directing the payment of
the respective sums to Mr. Babbage. This course, however,
required considerable time ; and the Engineer having repre
sented that he was unable to pay his workmen without more
immediate advances, Mr. Babbage, to prevent delay in com-

                                                                                                   n
82 STATEMENT.

pleting the Engine, did himself, from time to time, advance
from his own funds several sums of money ; so that he was,
in fact, usually in advance from 5001. to 1,000?. Those sums

were, of course, repaid when the Treasury warrants were

issued.

Early in the year 1833, an event of great importance in

the history of the Engine occurred. Mr. Bahbage had

directed a portion of consisting of sixteen figures, to be putit,

together. It was capable of calculating Tables having two or;

                                             a
three orders of differences and, to some extent, of forming

other Tables. The action of this portion completely justified

the expectations raised, and gave most satisfactory assurance

of its final success.

The fire-proof building and workshops having been com

pleted, arrangements were made for the removal of the

Engine. Mr. Babbage finding      it             no longer convenient to

make payments in advance, informed the Engineer that he
should in future not pay him until the money was received

from the Treasury. Upon receiving this intimation, the

Engineer immediately discontinued the construction of the

Engine, and dismissed the workmen employed on which fact
                                                it

                                                    ;

Mr. Babbage immediately communicated to the Treasury.

In this state of affairs  it it  appeared, both to the Treasury

and to Mr. Babbage, that would be better to complete the

removal of the drawings, and all the parts of the Engine to

the fire-proof building and then make such arrangements be
                       ;

tween the Treasury and the Engineer, respecting the future

payments, as might prevent further discussion on that subject.
   After much delay and difficulty the whole of the drawings,

and parte of the Engine, were at length removed to the fire
proof building in East-street, Manchester-square. Mr. Bab

bage wrote, on the 16th of July, 18o4, to the Treasury
DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.  83

informing their Lordships of the fact; -- adding that no
advance had been made in its construction for above a year
and a quarter; and requesting further instructions on the

subject.
   Mr. Babbage received a letter from the Treasury, express

ing their Lordships' satisfaction at learning that the drawings,
and parts of the Calculating Engine were removed to the
fire-proof building, and stating that as soon as Mr. Clement's

Accounts should be received and examined, they would

    "Take into consideration what further proceedings may be requisite with
 a view to its completion."

   A few weeks afterwards Mr. Babbage received a letter

 from the Treasury, conveying their Lordships' authority to
proceed with the construction of the Engine.

    During the time which had elapsed since the Engineer
had ceased to proceed with the construction of the Engine,
Mr. Babbage had been deprived of the use of his own draw
ings. Having, in the meanwhile, naturally speculated upon

the general principles on which machinery for calculation

might be constructed, a principle of an entirely new hind
occurred to him, the power of which over the most com
plicated arithmetical operations seemed nearly unbounded.
On re-examining his drawings when returned to him by the
Engineer, the new principle appeared to be limited only by
the extent of the mechanism it might require. The invention
of simpler mechanical means for executing the elementary
operations of the Engine now derived a far greater import
ance than it had hitherto possessed ; and should such simpli
fications be discovered, it seemed difficult to anticipate, or
even to over-estimate, the vast results which might be
attained. In the Engine for calculating by differences, such
simplifications affected only about a hundred and twenty

                                                                                  o2
84 STATEMENT.

similar parts, whilst in the new or Analytical Engine, they
would affect a great many thousand. The Difference Engine
might be constructed with more or less advantage by em
ploying various mechanical modes for the operation of
addition: the Analytical Engine could not exist without
inventing for it a method of mechanical addition possessed of

the utmost simplicity. In fact, it was not until upwards of

twenty different mechanical modes for performing the opera
tion of addition had been designed and drawn, that the
necessary degree of simplicity required for the Analytical
Engine was ultimately attained. Hence, therefore, the
powerful motive for simplification.

    These new views acquired additional importance, from
their bearings upon the Engine already partly executed for

the Government. For, if such simplifications should be dis
covered, it might happen that the Analytical Engine would

execute more rapidly the calculations for which the Difference
Engine was intended ; or, that the Difference Engine would
itself be superseded by a far simpler mode of construction.
Though these views might, perhaps, at that period have
appeared visionary, both have subsequently been completely
realized

    To withhold those new views from the Government, and
under such circumstances to have allowed the construction of

the Engine to be resumed, would have been improper ; yet
the state of uncertainty in which those views were then
necessarily involved rendered any written communication
respecting their probable bearing on the Difference Engine a

matter of very great difficulty. It appeared to Mr. Babbage

that the most straightforward course was to ask for an inter
view on the subject with the Head of the Government, and to
communicate to him the exact state of the case.
DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.  s-5

   Had that interview taken place, the First Lord of the

Treasury might have ascertained from his inquiries, in a
manner quite impracticable by any written communications,
the degree of importance which Mr. Babbage attached to his
new inventions, and his own opinion of their probable effect,
in superseding the whole or any part of the original, or
Difference, Engine. The First Lord of the Treasury would

then have been in a position to decide, either on the imme
diate continuation and completion of the original design, or
on its temporary suspension, until the character of the new
views should be more fully developed by further drawings and

examination.

   There was another, although a far less material point, on
which also it was desirable to obtain the opinion of the
Government : the serious impediments to the progress of

the Engine, arising from the Engineer's conduct, as well as
the consequent great expense, had induced Mr. Babbage to
consider, whether it might not be possible to employ some
other person as his agent for constructing it. His mind had
gradually become convinced of the practicability of that

measure ; but he was also aware that however advantageous

it might prove to the Government, from its greater economy,
yet that it would add greatly to his own personal labour, re

sponsibility, and anxiety.
   On the 26th of September, 1834, Mr. Babbage therefore

requested an interview with Lord Melbourne, for the purpose
of placing before him these views. Lord Melbourne acceded
to the proposed interview, but it was then postponed ; and
soon after, the Administration of which his Lordship was
the Head went out of Office, without the interview having
taken place.

   For the same purpose, Mr. Babbage applied in December,
86 STATEMENT.

1834, for an interview with the Duke of Wellington, who, in
reply, expressed his wish to receive a written communication
on the subject. He accordingly addressed a statement to his
Grace, pointing out the only plans which, in his opinion, could

be pursued for terminating the questions relative to the
Difference Engine ; namely,

    1st. The Government might desire Mr. Babbage to con
tinue the construction of the Engine, in the hands of the per
son who has hitherto been employed in making it.

    2ndly. The Government might wish to know whether any
other person could be substituted for the Engineer at present

employed to continue the construction ; --a course which was

possible.
    3rdly. The Government might (although he did not pre

sume that they would) substitute some person to superintend
the completion of the Engine instead of Mr. Babbage him

self.
    4thly. The Government might be disposed to give up the

undertaking entirely.
    He also stated to the Duke of Wellington, the circum

stances which had led him to the invention of a new Engine,
of far more extensive powers of calculation ; which he then
observed did not supersede the former one, but added greatly
to its utility.

   At this period, the impediments relating to the Difference
Engine had been partially and temporarily removed. The
chief difficulty would have been either the formation of new
arrangements with the Engineer, or the appointment of some
other person to supply his place. This latter alternative,
which was of great importance for economy as well as for its
speedy completion, Mr. Babbage had carefully examined, and
was then prepared to point out means for its accomplishment.
       DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.  87

a it,   The duration of the Duke of Wellington's Administrationit
     was short ; and no decision on the subject of the Difference
  A  Engine was obtained.   a

        On the 15th of May the Difference Engine was alluded to
     in the House of Commons ; when the Chancellor of the Ex
     chequer did Mr. Babbage the justice to state distinctly, that
     the whole of the money voted had been expended in paying
     the workmen and for the materials employed in constructing

         and that not one shilling of had ever gone into his own

     pocket.
        About this time several communications took place between

     the Chancellor of the Exchequer and Mr. Babbage, respecting
        reference to the Royal Society for an opinion on the subject

     of the Engine.

if     new and serious impediment to the possibility of execut
ing one of the plans which had been suggested to the Duke of
Wellingtou for completing the Difference Engine arose from*
these delays. The draftsman whom Mr. Babbage had, at his

own expense, employed, botb on the Difference and on the
Analytical Engine, received an offer of very liberal salary,

    he would enter into an engagement abroad, which would
occupy many years. His assistance was indispensable, and
his services were retained only by Mr. Babbage considerably
increasing his salary.

   On the 14th of January, 1836, Mr. Babbage received a
communication from the Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr.
Spring liice*), expressing his desire to come to some definite
result on the subject of the Calculating Engine, in which ho
remarked, that the conclusion to be drawn from Mr. Bab-

bage's statement to the Duke of Wellington was, that he

                                      The present Lord Montea^le.
88 STATEMENT.

(Mr. Babbage) having invented a new machine, of far greater

powers than the former one, wished to be informed if the

Government would undertake to defray the expense of this
new Engine.

    The Chancellor of the Exchequer then pointed out reasons
why he should feel himself bound to look to the completion of
the first machine, before he could propose to Parliament to
enter on the consideration of the second : and he proposed to
refer to the Royal Society for their opinion, authorizing them,

if they thought fit, to employ any practical mechanist or

engineer to assist them in their inquiries. The Chancellor of
the Exchequer concluded with expressing his readiness to
communicate with Mr. Babbage respecting the best mode of
attaining that result.

   From these statements it is evident that Mr. Babbage had
failed in making Ids own views distinctly understood by the
Chancellor of the Exchequer. His first anxiety, when apply
ing to Lord Melbourne, had been respecting the question,
whether the Discoveries with which he was then advancing
might not ultimately supersede the work already executed.
His second object had been to point out a possible arrange
ment, by which great expense might be saved in the mechani
cal construction of the Difference Engine.

    So far was Mr. Babbage from having proposed to the
Government to defray the expenses of the new or Analytical
Engine, that though he expressly pointed out in the statement
to the Duke of Wellington* four courses which it was possible

for the Government to take, --yet in no one of them was the

construction of the new Engine alluded to.

    Those views of improved machinery for making calculations

                                                       * See page 86.
DIFFERENCE ENGINE. No. 1.                                                  8'J

which had appeared in but faint perspective in 1834, as likely
to lead to important consequences, had, by this time, assumed

a form and distinctness which fully justified the anticipations
then made. By patient inquiry, aided by extensive drawings

and notations, the projected Analytical Engine had acquired
such powers, that it became necessary, for its further advance

ment, to simplify the elements of which it was composed. In

the progress of this inquiry, Mr. Babbage had gradully arrived
at simpler mechanical modes of performing those arithmetical
operations on which the action of the Difference Engine de
pended ; and he felt it necessary to communicate these new

circumstances, as well as their consequences, to the Chan
cellor of the Exchequer.

    On the 20th of January, 1836, Mr. Babbage wrote, in

answer to the communication from the Chancellor of the

Exchequer, that he did not, on re-examining the statement
addressed to the Duke of Wellington, perceive that it con

tained any application to talce up the new or Analytical En
gine ; and he accompanied this reply by a statement relative
to the progress of the Analytical Engine, and its bearing upon

the Difference Engine belonging to the Government. The
former, it was said,

   " Is not only capable of accomplishing all those other complicated cal
Iculations which had intended, but it also performs all calculations which

were peculiar to the Difference Engine, both in less time, and to a greater
extent : in fact, it completely supersedes the Difference Engine."

   The Reply then referred to the statement laid before
the Duke of Wellington in July, 1834, in which it was

said,                                         were essentially  different  from

 ' " That all the elements of the Analytical
those of the Difference Engine ;"

and that. the mechanical simplicity to which its elements had
now been reduced was such, that it would probably cost more
()0 STATEMENT.

to finish the old Difference Engine on its original plan than
to construct a new Difference Engine with the simplified ele

ments devised for the Analytical Engine.

  It then proceeded to state that --

       .<»

   " The fact of a new superseding an old machine, in a very few years, is
one of constant occurrence in our manufactories ; and instances might he

pointed out in which the advance of invention has been so rapid, and the

demand for machinery so great, that half-finished machines have been

thrown aside sis useless before  their completion.        for the Government

  " It is now nearly fourteen    years since I undertook

to superintend the making of the Difference Engine. During nearly four

years its construction has been absolutely stopped, and, instead of being

employed in overcoming the physical impediments, I have been harassed by
what may be called the moral difficulties of the question. It is painful to

reflect that, in the time so employed, the first Difference Engine might,

Iunder more favourable circumstances, have been
  " In making this Report, I wish distinctly to
                                 completed.               I  do  not  enter
                                 state, that

tain the slightest doubt of the success of the Difference Engine ; nor do
Iintend it as any application to finisKthe one or to construct the other ; but
make it from a conviction that the information it contains ought to be com

municated to those who must decide the question relative to the Difference

Engine."

   The reference to the Royal Society, proposed by the Chan
cellor of the Exchequer, in his letter of the 14th of January,
1836,* did not take place ; and during more than a year and
a half no further measures appear to have been adopted by
the Government respecting the Engine.

  It was obviously of the greatest importance to Mr. Babbage

that a final decision should be made by the Government.
When he undertook to superintend the construction of the

Difference Engine for the Government, it was, of course,
understood that he would not leave it unfinished. He hud

now been engaged fourteen years upon an object which he

                                                          See page 88.
DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.  Ill

had anticipated would not require more than two or three ;
and there seemed no limit to the time his engagement with

the Government might thus be supposed to endure, unless
some steps were taken to terminate it. Without such a
decision Mr. Babbage felt that he should be impeded in any
plans he might form, and liable to the most serious interrup

tion, if he should venture to enter upon the execution of

them. He therefore most earnestly pressed, both by his
personal applications and by those of his friends, for the
settlement of the question. Mr. Wolryche Whitmore, in
particular, repeatedly urged upon the Chancellor of the
Exchequer, personally, as well as by letter, the injustice of
keeping Mr. Babbage so very long in a state of suspense.

   Time, however, passed on, and during nearly two years the
question remained in the same state. Mr. Babbage, wearied

with this delay, determined upon making a last effort to
obtain a decision. He wrote to the First Lord of the Trea
sury (Lord Melbourne) on the 26th of July, 1838, recalling
to his Lordship's attention the frequency of his applications
on this subject, and urging the necessity of a final decision

upon it. He observed, that if the question had become more

difficult, because he had invented superior mechanism, which

had superseded that which was already partly executed, this

consequence had arisen from the very delay against which he
had so repeatedly remonstrated. He then asked, for the last
time, not for any favour, but for that which it was an injus

tice to withhold-- a decision.

    On the 16th of August Mr. Spring Kice (the Chancellor of
the Exchequer) addressed a note to Mr. Babbage, in reference
to his application to Lord Melbourne. After recapitulating
his former statement of the subject, which had been shown to

 be founded on a misapprehension, viz., that Mr. Babbage
!>2 STATKMKNT.

had made an application to the Government to construct for

them the Analytical Engine, the Chancellor of the Exchequer

inquired whether he was solicitous that steps should be taken

for the completion of the old, or for the commencement of a
new machine, -- and what he considered would be the cost of

the one proceeding, and of the other ?
   Being absent on a distant journey, Mr. Babbage could not

reply to this note until the 21st of October. He then re

minded the Chancellor of the Exchequer of his previous

communication of the 20th of January, 1836 (see p. 89), in
which it was expressly stated that he did not intend to make

any application to construct a new machine ; but that the
communication to the Duke of Wellington and the one to
himself were made, simply because he thought it would be

unfair to conceal such important facts from those who were

called upon to decide on the continuance or discontinuance of

the construction of the Difference Engine.
   With respect to the expense of either of the courses

pointed out by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. Babbage

observed that, not being a professional Engineer, and his past

experience having taught him not to rely upon his own judg
ment on matters of that nature, he should be very reluctant

to offer any opinion upon the subject.  that  the question  he

   In conclusion, Mr. Babbage stated
wished to have settled was --

Whether the Government required him to superintend the

completion of the Difference Engine, which had been suspended

during the last five years, according to the original plan and
principles ; or whether they intended to discontinue it alto

gether ?

   In November, 1841, Mr. Babbage, on his return from the
Continent, finding that Sir Bobert Peel had become First
            DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.  93

Lord of the Treasury, determined upon renewing his applica

tion for a decision of the question. With this view the pre

vious pages of this Statement were drawn up, and a copy of

it was forwarded to him, accompanied by a letter from Mr.
Babbage, in which he observed --

" Of course, when I undertook to give the invention of the Calculating

Engine to the Government, and to su|<crintend its construction, there must
have been an implied understanding that I should carry it on to its ter
Imination.
            entered upon that understanding, believing that two or at

the utmost that three years would complete it. The better part of my life

has now been spent on that machine, and no progress whatever having been

made since 1834, that understanding may possibly be considered by the

Government as still subsisting : I am therefore naturally very anxious

that this state of uncertainty, should be put an end to as soon as

possible."

   Mr. Babbage, in reply, received a note from Sir George
Clerk (Secretary to the Treasury), stating that Sir Robert
Peel feared that it would not be in his power to turn his
attention to the subject for some days, but that he hoped, as
soon as the great pressure of business previous to the opening
of the session of Parliament was over, he might be able to

determine on the best course to be pursued.

   The session of Parliament closed in August, and Mr.
Babbage had received no further communication on the
subject. Having availed himself of several private channels
for recalling the question to Sir Robert Peel's attention
without effect, Mr. Babbage, on the 8th of October, 1842,
again wrote to him, requesting an early decision.

   On the 4th of November, 1842, a note from Sir Robert

Peel explained to Mr. Babbage that some delay had arisen,
from his wish to communicate personally with the Chancellor
of the Exchequer, who would shortly announce to him their
joint conclusion on the subject.

    On the same day Mr. Babbage received a letter from Mr.
94 STATEMENT.

Goulburn (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), who stated that
he had communicated with Sir Robert Peel, and that they
both regretted the necessity of abandoning the completion of
a machine, on which so much scientific labour had been

bestowed. He observed, that the expense necessary for ren
dering it either satisfactory to Mr. Babbage or generally
useful appeared, on the lowest calculation, so far to exceed
what they should be justified in incurring, that they consi
dered themselves as having no other alternative.

    Mr. Goulburn concluded by expressing their hope, that by
the Government withdrawing all claim to the machine as
already constructed, and placing it entirely at Mr. Babbage's
disposal, they might in some degree assist him in his future
exertions in the cause of Science.

   On the 6th of November, 1842, Mr. Babbage wrote to Sir
Robert Peel and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, acknow
ledging the receipt of their decision, thanking them for the
offer of the machine as already constructed, but, under all
the circumstances, declining to accept it.*

    On the 11th of November Mr. Babbage obtained an inter
view with Sir Robert Peel, and stated, that having given the

original Invention to the Government--having superintended
for them its construction -- having demonstrated the possibi
lity of the undertaking by the completion of an important
portion of it -- and that the non-completion of the design

arose neither from his fault nor his desire, but was the act of
the Government itself, he felt that he had some claims on

their consideration.

   He rested those claims upon the sacrifices he had made,

    * The part of the Difference Engine already constructed, together with
all the Drawings relating to the whole machine, were, in January, 1843 (by
the direction of the Government), deposited in the Museum of King"s College,
London.
DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.  95

both personal and pecuniary, in the advancement of the Me

chanical Arts and of Science --on the anxiety and the injury

he had experienced by the delay of eight years in the deci
sion of the Government on the subject, and on the great

annoyance he had constantly been exposed to by the pre
vailing belief in the public mind that he had been amply
remunerated by large grants of public money. Nothing, ho
observed, but some public act of the Government could ever
fully refute that opinion, or repair the injustice with which he

had been treated.

   The result of this interview was entirely unsatisfactory.
Mr. Babbage went to it prepared, had his statement produced
any effect, to have pointed out two courses, by either of
which it was probable that not only a Difference Engine, but
even the Analytical Engine, might in a few years have been
completed. The state of Sir Robert Peel's information on
the subject, and the views he took of Mr. Babbage's services
and position, prevented Mr. Babbage from making any allu
sion to either of those plans.

    Thus finally terminated an engagement, which had existed
upwards of twenty years. During no part of the last eight of
those years does there appear to have been any reason why
the same decision should not have been arrived at by the
Government as was at last actually pronounced.

   It was during this last period that all the great principles

on which the Analytical Engine rests were discovered, and
that the mechanical contrivances in which they might bo
embodied were invented. The establishment which Mr.

Babbage had long maintained in his own house, and at his
 own expense, was now directed with increased energy to the
 new inquiries required for its perfection.

    In this Statement the heavy sacrifices, both pecuniary and
90 DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 1.

personal, which the invention of these machines has entailed
upon their author, have been alluded to as slightly as pos
sible. Few can imagine, and none will ever know their full
extent. Some idea of those sacrifices must nevertheless have
occurred to every one who has read this Statement. During
upwards of twenty years Mr. Babbage has employed, in his
own house, and at his own expense, workmen of various kinds,
to assist him in making experiments necessary for attaining a
knowledge of every art which could possibly tend to the per
fection of those Engines ; and with that object he has fre
quently visited the manufactories of the Continent, as well as
our own.

   Since the discontinuance of the Difference Engine belong
ing to the Government, Mr. Babbage has himself maintained
an establishment for making drawings and descriptions de
monstrating the nature and power of the Analytical Engine,
and for its construction at some future period, when its value

may be appreciated.

   To these remarks it will only be added, that at an early
stage of the construction of the Difference Engine he refused
more than one highly desirable and profitable situation, in
order fhat he might give his whole time and thoughts to the
fulfilment of the engagement which he considered himself to
have entered into with the Government.

        August, 1843.
CHAPTEB VII.

DIFFERENCE ENGINE NO. II.

Difference Engine No. 2--The Earl of Rosse, President of the Royal Society,

   proposed to the Government a Plan by which the Difference Engine

   No. 2 might have been executed -- It was addressed to the Earl of Derby,

   and rejected by his Chancellor of the Exchequer.

It Iwas not until 1848, when had mastered the subject of
Ithe Analytical Engine, that resolved on making a complete

set of drawings of the Difference Engine No. 2. In this I

proposed to take advantage of all the improvements and

simplifications which years of unwearied study had produced

for the Analytical Engine.

   In 1852, the Earl of Rosse, who, from its commencement,

had looked forward with the greatest interest to the appli

cation of mechanism to purposes of calculation, and who

was well acquainted with the drawings and notations of the
IDifference Engine No. 2, inquired of me whether
                                                  was

willing to give them to the Government, provided they
would have the Engine constructed. My feeling was, after

Ithe sad experience of the past, that ought not to think of

sacrificing any further portion of my life upon the subject.
If, however, they chose to have the Difference Engine made,

I was ready to give them the whole of the drawings, and also

the notations by which it was demonstrated that such a

machine could be constructed, and that when made it would

necessarily do the work prescribed for it.

                                            H
98 DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 2.

   My much-valued friend, the late Sir Benjamin Hawes, had
also been consulted, and it was agreed that the draft of a
letter to Lord Derby, who was then prime minister, should

Ibe prepared ; in which should make this offer. Lord

Rosse proposed to place my letter in Lord Derby's hands,

with his own statement of a plan by which the whole ques

tion might be determined.
   Lord Rosse's suggestion was, that the Government should

apply to the President of the Institution of Civil Engineers

to ascertain,

      1st. Whether it was possible, from the drawings and
           notations, to make an estimate of the cost of con

   structing the machine ?

2ndly. In case this question was answered in the affir

mative--then, could a Mechanical Engineer be found

         ?

                                                       it,
who would undertake to construct                            and at what

expense

The Institution of Civil Engineers was undoubtedly the

highest authority upon the first question That being decided

in the affirmative, no other body had equal power to find out

those mechanical engineers who might be willing to under

take the contract.

Supposing both these questions, or even the latter only,

answered in the negative, the proposition, of course, fell to

the ground. But they were both answered in the affirma
                    if

                                                  a
tive, then there would have arisen further question for the

consideration of the Government: namely, Whether the

object to be obtained was worthy of the expenditure         ?

The final result of this eminently practical plan was com

         is

                                        :

                                             by
municated to the Royal Society                       their President, in his

address at their anniversary on the 30th November, 1854.

The following an extract --
LORD ROSSE'S ADDRESS TO THti ROYAL SOCIETY. 99

" The progress of the work was suspended : there was a
" change of Government.
                         Science was weighed against gold
" by a new standard, and it was resolved to proceed no
" further. No enterprise could have had its beginning under
" more auspicious circumstances : the Government had taken
" the initiative -- they had called for advice, and the adviser
" was the highest scientific authority in this country ; -- your
" Council ; guided by such men as Davy, Wollaston, and
" Herschel. By your Council the undertaking was inaugu-
" rated, --by your Council it was watched over in its progress.
" That the first great effort to employ the powers of calcu-
" lating mechanism, in aid of the human intellect, should
" have been suffered in this great country to expire fruitless,
" because there was no tangible evidence of immediate profit,

I" as a British subject deeply regret, and as a Fellow my
" regret is accompanied with feelings of bitter disappoint-
" ment. Where a question has once been disposed of, suc-
" ceeding Governments rarely reopen
                               iIf
                                              it,
                                              I
                                                        I
" should not be doing my duty        still thought

                               did not take some oppor-
" tunity of bringing the facts once more before Government.
" Circumstances had changed, mechanical engineering had
" made much progress the tools required and trained work-
    ;

" men were to be found in the workshops of the leading

" mechanists, the founder's art was so advanced that casting
" had been substituted for cutting, in making the change

" wheels, even of screw-cutting engines, and therefore  was
                                     a

                                                   it
" very probable that persons would be found willing to under-
" take to complete the Difference Engine for specific sum.

" That finished, the question would then have arisen, how

" far was advisable to endeavour, by the same means, to
it

" turn to account the great labour which had been expended
" under the guidance of inventive powers the most original,

                                     H2
100 MR. BABBAGE'S LETTER

" controlled by mathematics of a very high order ; and which
" had been wholly devoted for so many years to the great

I I" task of carrying the powers of calculating machinery to its

" utmost limits. Before took any step wrote to several
" very eminent men of science, inquiring whether, in their
" opinion, any great scientific object would be gained if Mr.
" Babbage's views, as explained in Menabrea's little essay,

I" were completely realized. The answers received were
" strongly in the affirmative. As it was necessary the subject
" should be laid before Government in a form as practical
I" as possible, wrote to one of our most eminent mechanical
I" engineers to inquire whether should be safe in stating
" to Government that the expense of the Calculating Engine
" had been more than repaid in the improvements in me-
" chanisin directly referable to it ; he replied, --unquestion-
I" ably. Fortified by these opinions,
                                       submitted this propo-
" sition to Government: --that they should call upon the
" President of the Society of Civil Engineers to report
" whether it would be practicable to make a contract for the
" completion of Mr. Babbage's Difference Engine, and if so,

" for what sum. This was in 1852, during the short admi-
" nistration of Lord Derby, and it led to no result. The

" time was unfortunate ; a great political contest was impend-
" ing, and before there was a lull in politics, so that the
" voice of Science could be heard, Lord Derby's government
" was at an end."

   The following letter was then drawn up, and placed in

Lord Derby's hands by Lord Eosse :--

My Lord,                               June 8, 1852.
I take the liberty of drawing your Lordship's attention

to the subject of the construction of a Difference Engine, for
TO THE EARL OF DERBY.  101

calculating and printing Astronomical and Nautical Tables,

which was brought under the notice of the Government so
far back as the year 1823, and upon which the Government

Iof that day desired the opinion of the Royal Society.
      annex a copy of the correspondence which took place at
that time, and which your Lordship will observe was laid

before Parliament.

   The Committee of the Royal Society, to which the subject

was referred, reported generally that the invention was one
" fully adequate to the attainment of the objects proposed by
" the inventor, and that they considered Mr. Babbage as highly
" deserving of public encouragement in the prosecution of his
" arduous undertaking."-- Report of Royal Society, 1st May,
1 823. Parliamentary Paper, 370, 22nd May, 1823.

   And in a subsequent and more detailed Report, which

I annex also, they state :--

   " The Committee have no intention of entering into any

" consideration of the abstract mathematical principle on which
" the practicability of such a machine as Mr. Babbage's relies,
" nor of its public utility when completed. They consider
" the former as not only sufficiently clear in itself, but as
" already admitted and acted on by the Council in their former
" proceedings. The latter they regard as obvious to every one
" who considers the immense advantage of accurate numerical
" Tables in all matters of calculation, especially in those which
" relate to Astronomy and Navigation, and the great variety
" and extent of those which it is the object and within the
" compass of Mr. Babbage's Engine to calculate and print

" with perfect accuracy." --Report of Committee of Royal

 Society, 12ih Feb., 1829.
    Upon the first of these Reports, the Government deter

 mined to construct the machine, under my personal super
102 MR. BABBAGE'S LETTER

intendence and direction. The Engine was accordingly
commenced and partially completed. Tables of figures were
calculated, limited in extent only by the number of wheels

put together.
    Delays, from various causes arose in the progress of the

work, and great expenses were incurred. The machine was
altogether new in design and construction, and required the
utmost mechanical skill which could be obtained for its exe

cution. " It involved," to quote again from the Report of the

Committee of the Royal Society, " the necessity of construct-
" ing, and in many instances inventing, tools and machinery
" of great expense and complexity (and in many instances of
" ingenious contrivances likely to prove useful for other pur-
" poses hereafter), for forming with the requisite precision
" parts of the apparatus dissimilar to any used in ordinary
" mechanical works ; that of making many previous trials to
" ascertain the validity of proposed movements ; and that of
" altering, improving, and simplifying those already contrived
" and reduced to drawings. Your Committee are so far from
" being surprised at the time it has occupied to bring it to its

" present state, that they feel more disposed to wonder it has
" been possible to accomplish so much." The true explanation

Iboth of the slow progress and of the cost of the work is

clearly stated in this passage ; and may remark in passing,
that the tools which were invented for the construction of the

machine were afterwards found of utility, and that this
anticipation of the Committee has been realized, as some
of our most eminent mechanical engineers will readily

Itestify.                       apprehend, always attend
   Similar circumstances will,

and prolong the period of bringing to perfection inventions

which have no parallel in the previous history of mechanical
                 TO THE EARL OF DERBY.                          103

construction. The necessary science and skill specially ac

quired in executing such works must also, as experience is

gained, suggest deviations from, and improvements in, the

original plan of those works ; and the adoption or rejection

Iof such changes, especially under circumstances similar to

those in which was placed, often involves questions of the

greatest difficulty and anxiety.

From whatever cause, however, the delays and expenses

arose, the result was that the Government was discouraged,

and declined to proceed further with the work.

Mr. Goulburn's letter, intimating this decision to me, in

1842, will be found in the accompanying printed Statement.

And that the impediments to the completion of the engine,

described by the Eoyal Society, were those which influenced

Ithe Government in the determination they came to, infer

from the reason assigned by Mr. Goulburn for its discontinu
              "
ance, viz.,  it  the expense which would be       necessary in  order to
                 either satisfactory to yourself  or generally  useful."
" render
I readily admit that the work could not have been rendered
Isatisfactory to myself unless was free to introduce every

improvement which experience and thought could suggest.

But that even with this additional source of expense. its

Igeneral usefulness would have been impaired, cannot assent
I Ito, for believe, in the words of the Report have already

quoted, the "immense advantage of accurate Numerical
" Tables in all matters of calculation, especially in those which
" relate to Astronomy and Navigation, cannot, within any
" reasonable limits, be over-estimated." As to the expense

actually incurred upon the first Difference Engine, that of

the Government was about 17,000?. On my own part, and

Iout of my own private resources, have sacrificed upon this

and other works of science upwards of 20,000?.
104 MR. BABBAGE'S LETTER

From the date of Mr. Goulburn's letter, nothing has been

done towards the further completion of the Difference

Engine by the Government or myself. So much of it as

was completed was deposited in the Museum of King's Col

lege, where it now remains.

  IThree consequences have, however, resulted from my sub

sequent labours, to which attach great importance.

  IFirst, have been led to conceive the most important

elements of another Engine upon a new principle (the
details of which are reduced accurately to paper), the power

of which over the most complicated analytical operations

Iappears nearly unlimited; but no portion of which is yet
commenced.  have called this engine, in contradistinction

to the other, the Analytical Engine.
ISecondly,
            have invented and         brought to maturity a

system of signs for the explanation   Iof machinery, which

have called Mechanical Notation, by means of which the

drawings, the times of action, and the trains for the trans

mission of force, are expressed in a language at once simple

Iand concise. Without the aid of this language could not
Ihave invented the Analytical Engine ; nor do believe that

any machinery of equal complexity can ever be contrived
without the assistance of that or of some other equivalent

Ilanguage. The Difference Engine No. 2, to which shall

presently refer, is entirely described by its aid.

Thirdly, in labouring to perfect this Analytical Machine
Iof greater power and wider range of computation,
                                                    have

discovered the means of simplifying and expediting the

mechanical processes of the first or Difference Engine.

  IAfter what has passed, cannot expect the Government to
Iundertake the construction of the Analytical Engine, and

do not offer it for that purpose. It is not so matured as to
           TO THE EAEL OF DERBY.       105

enable any other person, without long previous training and

application, even to attempt its execution ; and on my own

part, to superintend its construction would demand an

amount of labour, anxiety, and time which could not, after

I Ithe treatment have received, be expected from me.

therefore make no such offer.
IBut that
           may fulfil to the utmost of my power the
Ioriginal expectation that should be able to complete, for

the Government, an Engine capable of calculating astro

nomical and nautical Tables with perfect accuracy, such as

Ithat which is described in the Reports of the Royal Society,

  am willing to place at the disposal of Government (if they

will undertake to execute a new Difference Engine) all those

Iimprovements which have invented and have applied to

the Analytical Engine. These comprise a complete series

of drawings and explanatory notations, finished in 1849, of
the Difference Engine No. 2, -- an instrument of greater

power as well as of greater simplicity than that formerly

commenced, and now in the possession of the Government.
I have sacrificed time, health, and fortune, in the desire to
Icomplete these Calculating Engines.
                                      have also declined

several offers of great personal advantage to myself. But,
notwithstanding the sacrifice of these advantages for the

purpose of maturing an engine of -almost intellectual power,

and after expending from my own private fortune a larger

sum than the Government of England has spent on that
Imachine, the execution of which it only commenced,
                                                     have

received neither an acknowledgment of my labours, nor even

the offer of those honours or rewards which are allowed to

fall within the reach of men who devote themselves to purely
                            I might, perhaps, advance some
scientific investigations.

claims to consideration, founded on my works and contribu
106 MR. BABBAGE'S LETTER

tions in aid of various departments of industrial and physical
science, --but it is for others to estimate those services.

  I now, however, simply ask your Lordship to do me the
I Ihonour to consider this statement and the offer make.

prefer no claim to the distinctions or the advantages which

Iit is in the power of the Crown or the Government to bestow.
  desire only to discharge whatever imagined obligation may
be supposed to rest upon me, in connexion with the original

Iundertaking of the Difference Engine ; though cannot but

feel that whilst the public has already derived advantage
Ifrom my labours,
                   have myself experienced only loss and

If Ineglect.                 have bestowed so much time
        the work upon which

and thought were a mere triumph over mechanical diffi

culties, or simply curious, or if the execution of such engines

were of doubtful practicability or utility, some justification

Imight be found for the course which has been taken ; but

venture to assert that no mathematician who has a reputation
to lose will ever publicly express an opinion that such a

machine would be useless if made, and that no man dis
tinguished as a Civil Engineer will venture to declare the

construction of such machinery impracticable. The names
appended to the Report of the Committee of the Royal

ISociety fully justify my expressing this opinion, which

apprehend will not be disputed.
   And at a period when the progress of physical science is

obstructed by that exhausting intellectual and manual labour,

Iindispensable for its advancement, which it is the object of the

Analytical Engine to relieve, think the application of ma

chinery in aid of the most complicated and abstruse calcula
tions can no longer be deemed unworthy of the attention
of the country. In fact, there is no reason why mental as
          TO THE EARL OP DERBY.                      107

well as bodily labour should not be economized by the aid of

machinery.

  IWith these views have addressed your Lordship, as the
Ihead of the Government ; and whatever may be my sense of

the injustice that has hitherto been done me, feel, in laying

I Ithis representation before your Lordship, and in making the

offer now make, that have discharged to the utmost

Ilimit every implied obligation originally contracted with the

country.

          I have the honour to be,

                                   &c, &c, &c,

                                   Chables Babbaqe.

Dorset Street, Manchester Square.

             June 8, 1852.

   As this question was one of finance and of calculation, the

sagacious Premier adroitly turned it over to his Chancellor

of the Exchequer --that official being, from his office, supposed

to be well versed in both subjects.

   The opinion pronounced by the novelist and financier was,
" That Mr. Babbage's projects appear to be so indefinitely

" expensive, the ultimate success so problematical, and the
" expenditure certainly so large and so utterly incapable of
" being calculated, that the Government would not be justified
" in taking upon itself any further liability." --Extract from
the Reply of Earl Derby to the application of the Earl of Bosse,
K.P., President of the Royal Society.

   The answer of Lord Derby to Lord Rosse was in sub
stance--

   That he had consulted the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
who pronounced Mr. Babbage's project as --
108 REFERRED TO THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER.

1. " Indefinitely expensive."              of being calcu
2. " The ultimate success problematical."

3. " The expenditure utterly incapable

                lated."

   1. With regard to the " indefinite expense." Lord Rosso
had proposed to refer this question to the President of the
Institution of Civil Engineers, who would have given his

opinion after a careful examination of the drawings and
notations. These had not been seen by the Chancellor of

the Exchequer; and, if seen by him, would not have been

comprehended.     that  its  success was " problematical  " may

   The objection

refer either to its mechanical construction or to its mathe

matical principles.
   Who, possessing one grain of common sense, could look

upon the unrivalled workmanship of the then existing portion
of the Difference Engine No. 1, and doubt whether a sim

plified form of the same engine could be executed ?
   As to any doubt of its mathematical principles, this was

excusable in the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who was
himself too practically acquainted with the fallibility of
his own figures, over which the severe duties of his office
had stultified his brilliant imagination. Far other figures
are dear to him --those of speech, in which it cannot be

denied he is indeed pre-eminent.

Any junior clerk in his office might, however, have told

him that the power of computing Tables by differences merely

required a knowledge of simple addition.

As to the impossibility of ascertaining the expenditure,

Ithis merges into the first objection ; but a poetical brain must
be pardoned when it repeats or amplifies.  will recall to the

ex-Chancellor of the Exchequer what Lord Rosse really pro
         HIS OPINION WORTHLESS.                                109

posed, namely, that the Government should take the opinion
of the President of the Institution of Civil Engineers upon

the question, whether a contract could be made for construct

ing the Difference Engine, and if so, for what sum.

   But the very plan proposed by Lord Rosse and refused by
Lord Derby, for the construction of the English Difference

Engine, was adopted some few years after by another ad

ministration for the Sivedish Difference Engine. Messrs.

Donkin, the eminent Engineers, made an estimate, and a

contract ivas in consequence executed to construct for Govern

ment a fac-simile of the Swedish Difference Engine, which

is now in use in the department of the Registrar-General,

at Somerset House. There were far greater mechanical diffi

culties in the production of that machine than in the one the

Idrawings of which had offered to the Government.

   From my own experience of the cost of executing such

Iworks, have no doubt, although it was highly creditable to

the skill of the able firm who constructed  it,but that must
                                              it
                                                       a

                                                           it
have been commercially unprofitable. Under such circum

stances, surely was harsh on the part of the Government to
,
refuse Messrs. Donkin permission to exhibit as specimen
     it
of English workmanship at the Exhibition of 18G2.

But the machine upon which everybody could calculate,

had little chance of fair play from the man on whom nobody

could calculate.

  If the Chancellor of the Exchequer had read my letter to

Lord Derby, he would have found the opinion of the Com:

mittee of the Royal Society expressed in these words --
   " They consider the former [the abstract mathematical

" principle] as not only sufficiently clear in itself, but as
" already admitted and acted on by the Council in their
" former proceedings.
110 DIFFERENCE ENGINE No. 2.

   " The latter [its public utility] they consider as obvious to
" every one who considers the immense advantage of accurate
" numerical tables in all matters of calculation, especially in

" those which relate to astronomy and navigation." --Report
of the Royal Society, 12th Feb., 1829.

   Thus it appears :--

      1st. That the Chancellor of the Exchequer presumed to
                set up his own idea of the utility of the Difference
                Engine in direct opposition to that of the Royal

                  Society.
      2nd. That he refused to take the opinion of the highest

                 mechanical authority in the country on its pro

                  bable cost, and even to be informed whether a con
                 tract for its construction at a definite sum might
                 not be attainable : he then boldly pronounced
                 the expense to be "utterly incapable of being
                 " calculated."

                                  a
                                              is,
    This much-abused Difference Engine however, like its

prouder relative the Analytical,  being of sensibility, of

impulse, and of power.

  It can not only calculate the millions the ex-Chancellor of

the Exchequer squandered, but can deal with the smallest

quantities nay, feels even for zeros.* It as conscious
           it ;

               is
                        it

                                    is

                                           it

                                                                            is
as Lord Derby himself of the presence of a negative quan

tity, and  not beyond the ken of either of them to foresee

the existence of impossible ones.f
   Yet should any unexpected course of events ever raise the

a        It discovers the roots of equations by feeling whether all the figures in

  t*  certain column arc zeros.

          It may be necessary to explain to the unmaUiematical reader and

    to the ex-Chancellor of the Exchequer that impossible quantities in algebra
    are something like mare's-nests in ordinary life.
  IllFEELS FOR THE CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER.

Iex-Chancellor of the Exchequer to his former dignity, am

sure he will be its friend as soon as he is convinced that it

can be made useful to him.

  It may possibly enable him to un-muddle even his own

financial accounts, and to

  I IBut as have no wish to crucify him, will leave his

name in obscurity.

   The Herostratus of Science, if he escape oblivion, will be

linked with the destroyer of the Ephesian Temple.
                  CHAPTER VIII.

            OF THE ANALYTICAL ENGINE.

            Man wrongs, and Timo avenges.
                                        Byeon. -- The Propltecy of Dante.

Built Workshops for constructing the Analytical Engine -- Difficulties about
   carrying the Tens -- Unexpectedly solved -- Application of the Jacquard
   Principle --Treatment of Tables -- Probable Time required for A rith-
  metical Operations -- Conditions it must fulfil--Unlimited in Number of
   Figures, or in extent of Analytical Operations -- The Author invited to
   Turin in 1840 -- Meetings for Discussion --Plana, Menabrea, MacCullagh,

   Mosotti -- Difficulty proposed by the latter -- Observations on the Errata
   of Astronomical Tables -- Suggestions for a Reform of Analytical Signs.

The circular arrangement of the axes of the Difference

Engine round large central wheels led to the most extended

prospects.  The whole of arithmetic now appeared within
the grasp
Analytical  of mechanism.  A vague glimpse even of an
            IEngine at length opened out, and pursued with

enthusiasm the shadowy vision. The drawings and the expe

riments were of the most costly kind. Draftsmen of the

highest order were necessary to economize the labour of my

own head ; whilst skilled workmen were required to execute

Ithe experimental machinery to which was obliged con

stantly to have recourse.

  IIn order to carry out my pursuits successfully, had pur

chased a house with above a quarter of an acre of ground in a
             THE MECHANICAL NOTATION.  113

very quiet locality. My coach-house was now converted into a

Iforge and a foundry, whilst my stables were transformed into
a workshop.  built other extensive workshops myself, and

had a fire-proof building for my drawings and draftsmen.

Having myself worked with a variety of tools, and having

Istudied the art of constructing each of them, at length laid

Iit down as a principle --that, except in rare cases, would

Inever do anything myself if could afford to hire another

person who could do it for me.

The complicated relations which then arose amongst the

various parts of the machinery would have baffled the most
Itenacious memory.
                    overcame that difficulty by improving

and extending a language of signs, the Mechanical Notation,

Iwhich in 1826 had explained in a paper printed in the
I"Phil. Trans." By such means succeeded in mastering

trains of investigation so vast in extent that no length of

years ever allotted to one individual could otherwise have

enabled me to control. By the aid of the Mechanical Nota

tion, the Analytical Engine became a reality : for it became

susceptible of demonstration.

Such works could not be carried on without great

expenditure. The fluctuations in the demand and supply

of skilled labour were considerable. The railroad mania

withdrew from other pursuits the most intellectual and
skilful draftsmen. One who had for some years been my

chief assistant was tempted by an offer scr advantageous that

in justice to his own family he could scarcely have declined

Iit. Under these circumstances took into consideration the

plan of advancing his salary to one guinea per day. Whilst

Ithis was in abeyance, consulted my venerable surviving
Iparent. When had fully explained the circumstances, my

excellent mother replied : " My dear son, you have advanced
                                                                 i
114 CARRYING THE TENS

far in the accomplishment of a great object, which is worthy

of your ambition.   You are capable of completing it. My
advice is--pursue
I                      even                    should oblige you to live on
        Ia
bread and cheese."
                      it,
This advice entirely accorded with my own feelings.
                         if                    I I II
                               ittherefore retained my chief assistant at his advanced salary.II

The most important part of the Analytical Engine was      I
                                                              II
undoubtedly the mechanical method of carrying the tens.

On this laboured incessantly, each succeeding improvement

advancing me step or two. The difficulty did not consist

so much in the more or less complexity of the contrivance

as in the reduction of the time required to effect the carriage.

Twenty or thirty different plans and modifications had been

drawn. At last came to the conclusion that had ex

hausted the principle of successive carriage.  concluded

also that nothing but teaching the Engine to foresee and then

to act upon that foresight could ever lead me to the object

desired, namely, to make the whole of any unlimited number
of carriages in one unit of time. One morning, after had
spent many hours in the drawing-office in endeavouring to
improve the system of successive carriages, mentioned these

views to my chief assistant, and added that should retire to
my library, and endeavour to work out the new principle. He

gently expressed    doubt whether the plan was possible, to
III
         Ia

                                            a
which replied that, not being able to prove its impos

sibility, should follow out slight glimmering of light

which thought perceived.

After about three hours' examination,          returned to the

drawing-office with much more definite ideas upon the sub

ject. had discovered principle that proved the possibility,
II
                                   a
and had contrived mechanism which,             thought, would

accomplish my object.
BY ANTICIPATION.                     115

  I Inow commenced the explanation of my views, which

soon found were but little understood by my assistant ; nor

was this surprising, since in the course of my own attempt at

Iexplanation, found several defects in my plan, and was also
Iled by his questions to perceive others. All these removed

one after another, and ultimately terminated at a late hour

my morning's work with the conviction that anticipating

Icarriage was not only within my power, but that had devised

one mechanism at least by which it might be accomplished.

Many years after, my assistant, on his return from a long

residence abroad, called upon me, and we talked over the
Iprogress of the Analytical Engine.
                                     referred back to the
Iday on which had made that most important step, and

asked him if he recollected it. His reply was that he

perfectly remembered the circumstance ; for that on retiring

to my library, he seriously thought that my intellect was

beginning to become deranged. The reader may perhaps

Ibe curious to know how spent the rest of that remark

able day.

  IAfter working, as constantly did, for ten or eleven hours
Ia day, had arrived at this satisfactory conclusion, and was

revising the rough sketches of the new contrivance, when

my servant entered the drawing-office, and announced that
Iit was seven o'clock--that dined in Park Lane --and that it
Iwas time to dress.
                     usually arrived at the house of my

friend about a quarter of an hour before the appointed time,

in order that we might have a short conversation on subjects

on which we were both much interested. Having mentioned

my recent success, in which my host thoroughly sympathized,

I remarked that it had produced an exhilaration of the spirits

which not even his excellent champagne could rival. Having

enjoyed the society of Hallam, of Rogers, and of some few

                                                   i2
116 JACQUARD LOOM.

Iothers of that delightful circle, retired, and joined one or

perhaps two much more extensive reunions. Having thus
forgotten science, and enjoyed society for four or five hours,

I Ireturned home. About one o'clock was asleep in my

bed, and thus continued for the next five hours.

   This new and rapid system of carrying the tens when two

numbers are added together, reduced the actual time of the

addition of any number of digits, however large, to nine units

of time for the addition, and one unit for the carriage. Thus
in ten's units of time, any two numbers, however large,

might be added together. A few more units of time, perhaps

five or six, were required for making the requisite previous

arrangements.

   Having thus advanced as nearly as seemed possible to the

Iminimum of time requisite for arithmetical operations, felt

renewed power and increased energy to pursue the far higher

Iobject had in view.

To describe the successive improvements of the Analytical
IEngine would require many volumes.
                                        only propose here

to indicate a few of its more important functions, and to give

to those whose minds are duly prepared for it some informa

tion which will remove those vague notions of wonder, and

even of its impossibilty, with which it is surrounded in the

minds of some of the most enlightened.

To those who are acquainted with the principles of the

Jacquard loom, and who are also familiar with analytical

formulae, a general idea of the means by which the Engine

executes its operations may be obtained without much diffi

culty. In the Exhibition of 1862 there were many splendid

examples of such looms.

  It is known as a fact that the Jacquard loom is capable of
WEAVING FORMULA.  117

weaving any design which the imagination of man may

conceive. It is also the constant practice for skilled artists to

be employed by manufacturers in designing patterns. These

patterns are then sent to a peculiar artist, who, by means
of a certain machine, punches holes in a set of pasteboard
cards in such a manner that when those cards are placed in
a Jacquard loom, it will then weave upon its produce the

exact pattern designed by the artist.
   Now the manufacturer may use, for the warp and weft of

his work, threads which are all of the same colour ; let us
suppose them to be unbleached or white threads. In this
case the cloth will be woven all of one colour ; but there
will be a damask pattern upon it such as the artist designed.

   But the manufacturer might use the same cards, and put

into the warp threads of any other colour. Every thread
might even be of a different colour, or of a different shade of
colour ; but in all these cases the form of the pattern will
be precisely the same -- the colours only will differ.

   The analogy of the Analytical Engine with this well-known

process is nearly perfect.

   The Analytical Engine consists of two parts :--
    1st. The store in which all the variables to be operated
upon, as well as all those quantities which have arisen from

the result of other operations, are placed.
   2nd. The mill into which the quantities about to be ope

rated upon are always brought.
   Every formula which the Analytical Engine can be required

to compute consists of certain algebraical operations to be per
formed upon given letters, and of certain other modifica
tions depending on the numerical value assigned to those

letters.
   There are therefore two sets of cards, the first to direct the
118 LAW OF DEVELOPMENT.

nature of the operations to be performed --these are called

operation cards : the other to direct the particular variables

on which those cards are required to operate --these latter

are called variable cards. Now the symbol of each variable

or constant, is placed at the top of a column capable of con

taining any required number of digits.

    Under this arrangement, when any formula is required to

be computed, a set of operation cards must be strung together,

which contain the series of operations in the order in which

they occur. Another set of cards must then be strung

together, to call in the variables into the mill, the order in

which they are required to be acted upon. Each operation

card will require three other cards, two to represent the vari

ables and constants and their numerical values upon which

the previous operation card is to act, and one to indicate the

variable on which the arithmetical result of this operation is

to be placed.

    But each variable has below on the same axis, certain
                   it,
                                           is

                                                          a
number of figure-wheels marked on their edges with the ten

digits: upon these any number the machine              capable of

holding can be placed. Whenever variables are ordered into

the mill, these figures will be brought in, and the operation
indicated by the preceding card will be performed upon them.

The result of this operation will then be replaced in the store.

    The Analytical Engine therefore machine of the mostis
                                  a

general nature. Whatever formula  it     required to develop,
                                     is

the law of its development must be communicated to by
                                                             it

two sets of cards. When these have been placed, the engine

is  special for that particular formula. The numerical value

of its constants must then be put on the columns of wheels

below them, and on setting the Engine in motion will calcu
                                           it

late and print the numerical results of that formula.
                       ITS USE OF TABLES.                         119

   Every set of cards made for any formula will at any future
time recalculate that formula with whatever constants may

be required.

Thus the Analytical Engine will possess a library of its

own. Every set of cards once made will at any future time

reproduce the calculations for which it was first arranged.

The numerical value of its constants may then be inserted.

  It is perhaps difiicult to apprehend these descriptions with

Iout a familiarity both with analytical forms and mechanical
structures.            will now, therefore, confine myself to the

mathematical view of the Analytical Engine, and illustrate by
example some of its supposed difficulties.

   An excellent friend of mine, the late Professor HacCullagh,
of Dublin, was discussing with me, at breakfast, the various

powers of the Analytical Engine. After a long conversation

on the subject, he inquired what the machine could do in
                              it
                                                                   if,
the midst of algebraic operations, was required to perform

logarithmic or trigonometric operations.

My answer was, that whenever the Analytical Engine

should exist, all the developments of formula would be
                       this condition --that the machine should be able
IIdirected
      I
to compute their numerical value in the shortest possible
                   by
time.                then added that this answer were not satisfactory.
                       if

had provided means by which, with equal accuracy, might
                                           I
compute by logarithmic or other Tables.
                                                            a it
explained that the Tables to be used must, of course, be

computed and punched on cards by the machine, in which

case they would undoubtedly be correct.    then added that

when the machine wanted tabular number, say the logarithm
                       it

                           a
of a given number, that would ring a bell and then stop itself.
On this, the attendant would look at a certain part of the

machine, and find that wanted the logarithm of given
                       it
120 DISCOVERS A MISTAKE.

number, say of 2303. The attendant would then go to the

drawer containing the pasteboard cards representing its table

of logarithms. From amongst these he would take the
required logarithmic card, and place it in the machine.

Upon this the engine would first ascertain whether the

assistant had or had not given him the correct logarithm of

the number ; if so, it would use it and continue its work.
But if the engine found the attendant had given him a wrong

logarithm, it would then ring a louder bell, and stop itself.
On the attendant again examining the engine, he would
observe the words, " Wrong tabular number," and then

discover that he really had given the wrong logarithm, and of

course he would have to replace it by the right ona

Upon this, Professor MacCullagh naturally asked why, if

the machine could tell whether the logarithm was the right
Ione, it should have asked the attendant at all?
                                                     told

him that the means employed were so ridiculously simple

Ithat would not at that moment explain them ; but that if
Ihe would come again in the course of a few days, should be

ready to explain it. Three or four days after, Bessel and
Jacobi, who had just arrived in England, were sitting with

me, inquiring about the Analytical Engine, when fortunately
my friend MacCullagh was announced. The meeting was
equally agreeable to us all, and we continued our conversa

tion. After some time Bessel put to me the very same

question which MacCullagh had previously asked. On this

Jacobi remarked that he, too, was about to make the same
Iinquiry when Bessel had asked the question.
                                                     then

explained to them the following very simple means by which

that verification was accomplished.

Besides the sets of cards which direct the nature of the

operations to be performed, and the variables or constants
         KNOWS WHAT IT WANTS.        121

which are to be operated upon, there is another class of cards
called number cards. These are much less general in their
uses than the others, although they are necessarily of much

larger size.
   Any number which the Analytical Engine is capable of

using or of producing can, if required, be expressed by a card
with certain holes in it ; thus--

Numrer.                      Table.

2 303    3 6 22 9 39

·· o·    ·o oo ···
         o·0o·o·
·· o·    o · oo·o·
         o ·oo·o·
0· o·    o o o o·o ·
         o o 00 ·o ·
0o oo    o ooo ·o·

0o oo

oo oo

o 0 oo

0o  oo

oo o0

   The above card contains eleven vertical rows for holes,

each row having nine or any less number of holes. In this

example the tabular number is362293 9, whilst its num

ber in the order of the table is 2 3 0 3. In fact, the former

number is the logarithm of the latter.

   The Analytical Engine will contain,

   1st. Apparatus for printing on paper, one, or, if required,

             two copies of its results.
   2nd. Means for producing a stereotype mould of the tables

            or results it computes.
    3rd. Mechanism for punching on blank pasteboard cards or

             metal plates the numerical results of any of its com

              putations.

   Of course the Engine will compute all the Tables which
122 STOPS AND RINGS A BELL.

it may itself be required to use. These cards will therefore

be entirely free from error. Now when the Engine requires
a tabular number, it will stop, ring a bell, and ask for such

number. In the case we have assumed, it asks for the loga

rithm of 2 3 0 3.

When the attendant has placed a tabular card in the

Engine, the first step taken by it will be to verify the number

of the card given it by subtracting its number from 2 3 0 3,
Ifthe number whose logarithm it asked for.
                                            the remainder

is zero, then the engine is certain that the logarithm must be

the right one, since it was computed and punched by itself.

Thus the Analytical Engine first computes and punches on

cards its own tabular numbers. These are brought to it by
its attendant when demanded. But the engine itself takes
care that the right card is brought to it by verifying the

number of that card by the number of the card which it

demanded. The Engine will always reject a wrong card by

continually ringing a loud bell and stopping itself until sup
plied with the precise intellectual food it demands.

  It will be an interesting question, which time only can solve,

to know whether such tables of cards will ever be required

for the Engine. Tables are used for saving the time of con
tinually computing individual numbers. But the computa
tions to be made by the Engine are so rapid that it seems
most probable that it will make shorter work by computing

directly from proper formulae than by having recourse even to

its own Tables.

  IThe Analytical Engine propose will have the power of

expressing every number it uses to fifty places of figures. It
will multiply any two such numbers together, and then, if

required, will divide the product of one hundred figures by
number of fifty places of figures.
ARITHMETICAL DIFFICULTIES.  123

   Supposing the velocity of the moving parts of the Engine

Ito be not greater than forty feet per minute, have no doubt

that

       Sixty additions or subtractions may be completed and
           printed in one minute.

        One multiplication of two numbers, each of fifty figures,
           in one minute.

       One division of a number having 100 places of figures
          by another of 50 in one minute.

   In the various sets of drawings of the modifications of the
mechanical structure of the Analytical Engines, already num

bering upwards of thirty, two great principles were embodied
to an unlimited extent.

    1st. The entire control over arithmetical operations, how

ever large, and whatever might be the number of their digits.
    2nd. The entire control over the combinations of algebraic

symbols, however lengthened those processes may be re
quired. The possibility of fulfilling these two conditions

might reasonably be doubted by the most accomplished ma
thematician as well as by the most ingenious mechanician.

    The difficulties which naturally occur to those capable of
examining the question, as far as they relate to arithmetic,
are these, --

    (a). The number of digits in each constant inserted in the
              Engine must be without limit.

     (b). The number of constants to be inserted in the Engine
              must also be without limit.

     (e). The number of operations necessary for arithmetic is
              only four, but these four may be repeated an un
             limited number of times.

     (d). These operations may occur in any order, or follow an
              unlimited number of laws.
124 ALGEBRAICAL DIFFICULTIES.

    The following conditions relate to the algebraic portion of

the Analytical Engine :--

   (e). The number of littered constants must be unlimited.
   (f). The number of variables must be without limit.
    (g). The combinations of the algebraic signs must be un

               limited.

   (h). The number of functions to be employed must be
             without limit.

   This enumeration includes eight conditions, each of which
is absolutely unlimited as to the number of its combinations.

   Now it is obvious that no finite machine can include infinity.

It is also certain that no question necessarily involving in

finity can ever be converted into any other in which the idea
of infinity under some shape or other does not enter.

   It is impossible to construct machinery occupying unlimited

space ; but it is possible to construct finite machinery, and to

use it through unlimited time. It is this substitution of the

Iinfinity of time for the infinity of space which have made

use of, to limit the size of the engine and yet to retain its
unlimited power.

  I(a). shall now proceed briefly to point out the means by
Iwhich have effected this change.

   Since every calculating machine must be constructed for
the calculation of a definite number of figures, the first datum

must be to fix upon that number. In order to be somewhat
in advance of the greatest number that may ever be required,

I chose fifty places of figures as the standard for the Ana

lytical Engine. The intention being that in such a machine
two numbers, each of fifty places of figures, might be mul
tiplied together and the resultant product of one hundred
places might then be divided by another number of fifty
LARGER NUMBERS TREATED.                                                     125

places. It seems to me probable that a long period must

elapse before the demands of science will exceed this limit.
To this it may be added that the addition and subtraction of
numbers in an engine constructed for n places of figures
would be equally rapid whether n were equal to five or five
thousand digits. With respect to multiplication and division,

the time required is greater :--
   Thus if a . 1050 + b and a' . 1050 + V are two- numbers

each of less than a hundred places of figures, then each can
be expressed upon two columns of fifty figures, and a, b,
are each less than fifty places of figures they can therefore

be added and subtracted upon any column holding fifty places

of figures.
   The product of two such numbers --
                               +
                                         is

                                                         :

                                                                 a',
                                                                                    a',

                                                                            V
aa' 10100 + (aV a'b) 1050 + bb'.

This expression contains four pair of factors, a ab', ab\ bb',

each factor of which has less than fifty places of figures. Each

multiplication can therefore be executed in the Engine. The

time, however, of multiplying two numbers, each consisting of

any number of digits between fifty and one hundred, will be

nearly four times as long as that of two such numbers of less

than fifty places of figures.

The same reasoning will show that the numbers of digits
it
     it

                    a
                         is

                                     k if
                                               if
                                                       it

                                                                        is
of each factor are between one hundred and one hundred and

fifty, then the time required for the operation will be nearly

nine times that of pair of factors having only fifty digits.

Thus appears that whatever may be the number of digits

the Analytical Engine capable of holding,                                   required

to make all the computations with times that number of

digits, then can be executed by the same Engine, but in an

amount of time equal to fc2 times the former. Hence the
12G OF PUNCHING CARDS.

condition (a), or the unlimited number of digits contained in

each constant employed, is fulfilled.

  It must, however, be admitted that this advantage is gained

at the expense of diminishing the number of the constants
the Engine can hold. An engine of fifty digits, when used as

one of a hundred digits, can only contain half the number of
variables. An engine containing m columns, each holding n

digits, if used for computations requiring kn digits, can only

hold -kr constants or variables.

   (b) . The next step is therefore to prove (b), viz. : to show

that a finite engine can be used as if it contained an unlimited

number of constants. The method of punching cards for

tabular numbers has already been alluded to. Each Ana
lytical Engine will contain one or more apparatus for printing

                      it,
                                                     a
any numbers put into and also an apparatus for punching

on pasteboard cards the holes corresponding to those num

bers. At another part of the machine series of number

cards, resembling those of Jacquard, but delivered to and

computed by the machine itself, can be placed. These can

               the Engine itself in any order in which
aIbe called for

            it, a :
                        is

                           by

                         if

                                     it

                       I

                                           it of

                                 is I
                                                                        it
                                                                                      is
they may be placed, or according to any law the Engine may

be directed to use. Hence the condition (b)                                               fulfilled,

namely an unlimited number         constants can be inserted in

the machine in an unlimited time.

       propose in the Engine am constructing to have places
for only thousand constants, because think will be more

than sufficient. But  were required to have ten, or even

hundred times that number, would be quite possible to

make such the simplicity of its structure of that portion

of the Engine.                              the number of times
    (c) . The next stage in the arithmetic
     A THOUSAND VARIABLES.                               127

the four processes of addition, subtraction, multiplication, and

division can be repeated. It is obvious that four different

cards thus punched

ooo  oo                   oo ooo

would give the orders for the four rules of arithmetic.

Now there is no limit to the number of such cards which

may be strung together according to the nature of the ope

rations required. Consequently the condition (e) is fulfilled.
   (d). The fourth arithmetical condition (d), that the order of

succession in which these operations can be varied, is itself

vnlimiied, follows as a matter of course.

The four remaining conditions which must be fulfilled, in

order to render the Analytical Engine as general as the

science of which it is the powerful executive, relate to alge
braic quantities with which it operates.

   The thousand columns, each capable of holding any number

of less than fifty-one places of figures, may each represent a
Iconstant or a variable quantity. These quantities
                                                         have

called by the comprehensive title of variables, and have

denoted them by V,,, with an index below. In the ma

Ichine have designed, n may vary from 0 to 999. But

after any one or more columns have been used for variables,

if those variables are not required afterwards, they may be

printed upon paper, and the columns themselves again used

for other variables. In such cases the variables must have a
Inew index ; thus, mV".
                          propose to make » vary from 0 to
If99. more variables are required, these may be supplied by

Variable Cards, which may follow each other in unlimited

succession. Each card will cause its symbol to be printed

with its proper indices.
         A FINITE MACHINE MAY

IFor the sake of uniformity, have used V with as many

indices as may be required throughout the Engine. This,
however, does not prevent the printed result of a develop

ment from being represented by any letters which may be

thought to be more convenient. In that part in which the

results are printed, type of any form may be used, according

to the taste of the proposer of the question.    and (/), which
                                               (e)
  It thus appears that the two conditions,                    is

require that the number of constants and of variables should

be unlimited, are both fulfilled.

The condition (g) requiring that the number of combina

tions of the four algebraic signs shall be unlimited, easily
fulfilled by placing them on cards in any order of succession

the problem may require.

The last condition (A), namely, that the number of func

tions to be employed must be without limit, might seem at

first sight to be difficult to fulfil. But when  it it    considered

that any function of any number of operations performedis

upon any variables  is  but a combination of the four simple

signs of operation with various quantities,      becomes ap

parent that any function whatever may be represented by

two groups of cards, the first being signs of operation, placed
in the order in which they succeed each other, and the second

group of cards representing the variables and constants placed
in the order of succession in which they are acted upon by the

former.

Thus appears that the whole of the conditions which
         a it

                            I
                                   I

                                                       I
enable finite machine to make calculations of unlimited
extent are fulfilled in the Analytical Engine. The means

have adopted are uniform.          have converted the infinity of

space, which was required by the conditions of the problem,

into the infinity of time. The means have employed are in
       MAKE UNLIMITED CALCULATION.     129

daily use in the art of weaving patterns. It is accomplished by

systems of cards punched with various holes strung together
to any extent which may be demanded. Two large boxes,

the one empty and the other filled with perforated cards, are

placed before and behind a polygonal prism, which revolves

at intervals upon its axis, and advances through a short space,
after which it immediately returns.

  A card passes over the prism just before each stroke of the

shuttle ; the cards that have passed hang down until they
reach the empty box placed to receive them, into which they
arrange themselves one over the other. When the box is full,

another empty box is placed to receive the coming cards, and

a new full box on the opposite side replaces the one just
emptied. As the suspended cards on the entering side are

exactly equal to those on the side at which the others are
delivered, they are perfectly balanced, so that whether the

formulae to be computed be excessively complicated or very

simple, the force to be exerted always remains nearly the

same.
IIn 1840
          received from my friend M. Plana a letter

pressing me strongly to visit Turin at the then approaching
meeting of Italian philosophers. In that letter M. Plana

stated that he had inquired anxiously of many of my country

men about the power and mechanism of the Analytical

Engine. He remarked that from all the information he
could collect the case seemed to stand thus :--

   " Hitherto the legislative department of our analysis has
been all powerful --the executive all feeble.

   " Your engine seems to give us the same control over the

executive which we have hitherto only possessed over the

legislative department."
   Considering the exceedingly limited information which

                                    K
130 DISCUSSIONS AT TURIN.

Icould have reached my friend respecting the Analytical

Engine, was equally surprised and delighted at his exact

Iprevision of its powers. Even at the present moment could

not express more clearly, and in fewer terms, its real object.

I collected together such of my models, drawings, and nota

Itions as conceived to be best adapted to give an insight

into the principles and mode of operating of the Analy

tical Engine. On mentioning my intention to my excellent

friend the late Professor MacCullagh, he resolved to give up

a trip to the Tyrol, and join me at Turin.

   We met at Turin at the appointed time, and as soon as the

Ifirst bustle of the meeting had a little abated, had the great

pleasure of receiving at my own apartments, for several morn

ings, Messrs. Plana, Menabrea, Mossotti, MacCullagh, Planta-

mour, and others of the most eminent geometers and engineers

of Italy.

   Around the room were hung the formula, the drawings,

Inotations, and other illustrations which had brought with
Ime. began on the first day to give a short outline of the

Iidea. My friends asked from time to time further explana

tions of parts had not made sufficiently clear. M. Plana

had at first proposed to make notes, in order to write an out

line of the principles of the engine. But his own laborious

pursuits induced him to give up this plan, and to transfer

the task to a younger friend of his, M. Menabrea," who had

already established his reputation as a profound analyst.

These discussions were of great value to me in several
Iways.
           was thus obliged to put into language the various
I Iviews had taken, and observed the effect of my explana

tions on different minds. My own ideas became clearer, and

I profited by many of the remarks made by my highly-gifted

friends.
MOSOTTI'S DIFFICULTY.  131

   One day Mosotti, who had been unavoidably absent from
the previous meeting, when a question of great importance

Ihad been discussed, again joined the party. Well aware of

the acuteness and rapidity of my friend's intellect, asked
my other friends to allow me five minutes to convey to Pro
fessor Mosotti the substance of the preceding sitting. After

putting a few questions to Mosotti himself, he placed before
me distinctly his greatest difficulty.

   He remarked that he was now quite ready to admit the
power of mechanism over numerical, and even over algebrai
cal relations, to any extent. But he added that he had no
conception how the machine could perform the act of judg
ment sometimes required during an analytical inquiry, when

two or more different courses presented themselves, especially
as the proper course to be adopted could not be known in
many cases until all the previous portion had been gone

Ithrough.
      then inquired whether the solution of a numerical equa
tion of any degree by the usual, but very tedious proceeding
of approximation would be a type of the difficulty to be
explained. He at once admitted that it would be a very

eminent one.

  IFor the sake of perspicuity and brevity shall confine my

present explanation to possible roots.

  I then mentioned the successive stages :--

Number of Operation
        Cards used.

        1 a. Ascertain the number of possible roots by apply
                    ing Sturm's theorem to the coefficients.

       2 b. Find a number greater than the greatest root.
        3 c. Substitute the powers of ten (commencing with

                    that next greater than the greatest root, and
                                                                        K2
132 SOLUTION OF EQUATIONS.

Number of Operation
         Cards used.

                     diminishing the powers by unity at each step)

                   for the value of x in the given equation.

      Continue this until the sign of the resulting

         number changes from positive to negative.
      The index of the last power of ten (call

         it n), which is positive, expresses the num
         ber of digits in that part of the root which
         consists of whole numbers. Call this in

      dex n + 1.

...4 d. Substitute successively for x in the original equa
      tion 0 x 10", 1 x 10°, 2 x 10", 3 x 10",                      .

      9 x 10", until a change of sign occurs in the

      result. The digit previously substituted will

      be the first figure of the root sought.

5 e. Transform the original equation into another

      whose roots are less by the number thus found.

      The transformed equation will have a real

      root, the digit, less than 10".

6 /.  Substitute 1 x 10"1, 2 x 10 **, 3 x 10"-', &c,
         successively for the root of this equation, until
         a change of sign occurs in the result, as in pro

      cess 4.

      This will give the second figure of the root.

      This process of alternately finding a new

      figure in the root, and then transforming

      the equation into another (as in process 4
      and 5), must be carried on until as many

      figures as are required, whether whole

      numbers or decimals, are arrived at.

7 g. The root thus found must now be used to reduce

      the original equation to one dimension lower.
                     SOLUTION OF EQUATIONS.           133

Number of Operation  new  equation  of one dimension  lower must
        Cards used.

       8 h. This

now be treated by sections 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7,

                     until the new root is found.

9 i. The repetition of sections 7 and 8 must go on
                    until all the roots have been found.

    Now it will be observed that Professor Mosotti was quite
ready to admit at once that each of these different processes
could be performed by the Analytical Machine through the
medium of properly-arranged sets of Jacquard cards.

   His real difficulty consisted in teaching the engine to know
when to change from one set of cards to another, and back

again repeatedly, at intervals not known to the person who

gave the orders.
    The dimensions of the algebraic equation being known,

the number of arithmetical processes necessary for Sturm's

theorem is consequently known. A set of operation cards

can therefore be prepared. These must be accompanied by
a corresponding set of variable cards, which will represent
the columns in the store, on which the several coefficients of

the given equation, and the various combinations required
amongst them, are to be placed.

   The next stage is to find a number greater than the greatest
root of the given equation. There are various courses for
arriving at such a number. Any one of these being selected,
another set of operation and variable cards can be prepared

to execute this operation.
   Now, as this second process invariably follows the first, the

second set of cards may be attached to the first set, and the
engine will pass on from the first to the second process, and
again from the second to the third process.
134 SOLUTION OF EQUATIONS.

   But here a difficulty arises : successive powers of ten are to
be substituted for x in the equation, until a certain event
happens. A set of cards may be provided to make the sub
stitution of the highest power of ten, and similarly for the
others ; but on the occurrence of a certain event, namely,
the change of a sign from + to -- , this stage of the calcula
tion is to terminate.

  INow at a very early period of the inquiry had found it

necessary to teach the engine to know when any numbers it
might be computing passed through zero or infinity.

    The passage through zero can be easily ascertained, thus :
Let the continually-decreasing number which is being com
puted be placed upon a column of wheels in connection with
a carrying apparatus. After each process this number will be
diminished, until at last a number is subtracted from it
which is greater than the number expressed on those wheels.

   Thus let it be . 00000,00000,00000,00423

    Subtract . . . 00000,00000,00000,00511

                                      99999,99999,99999,99912

   Now in every case of a carriage becoming due, a certain
lever is transferred from one position to another in the cage
next above it.

   Consequently in the highest cage of all (say the fiftieth in
the Analytical Engine), an arm will be moved or not moved
accordingly as the carriages do or do not run up beyond the

highest wheel.
    This arm can, of course, make any change which has pre

viously been decided upon. In the instance we have been
considering it would order the cards to be turned on to the

next set.

   If we wish to find when any number, which is increasing,
GENERAL MENABBEA'S DESCRIPTION.  135

exceeds in the number of its digits the number of wheels on
the columns of the machine, the same carrying arm can be
employed. Hence any directions may be given which the

circumstances require.

   It will be remarked that this does not actually prove, even

in the Analytical Engine of fifty figures, that the number
computed has passed through infinity ; but only that it has
become greater than any number of fifty places of figures.

   There are, however, methods by which any machine made
for a given number of figures may be made to compute the same
formulae with double or any multiple of its original number.
But the nature of this work prevents me from explaining that

method.

  It may here be remarked that in the process, the cards

employed to make the substitutions of the powers of ten are
operation cards. They are, therefore, quite independent of
the numerical values substituted. Hence the same set of

operation cards which order the substitutions 1 X 10" will, if

backed, order the substitution of 2 x 10", &c. We may,
therefore, avail ourselves of mechanism for backing these
cards, and call it into action whenever the circumstances

themselves require it.

   The explanation of M. Mosotti's difficulty is this :--Mecha

nical means have been provided for backing or advancing
the operation cards to any extent. There exist means of

expressing the conditions under which these various processes

are required to be called into play. It is not even necessary

that two courses only should be possible. Any number

of courses may be possible at the same time ; and the choice
of each may depend upon any number of conditions.

   It was during these meetings that my highly valued friend,

M. Menabrea, collected the materials for that lucid and

-
136 THE COUNTESS OF LOVELACE'S NOTES.

admirable description which he subsequently published in
the Bibli. Univ. de Geneve, t. xli. Oct. 1842.

The elementary principles on which the Analytical Engine

rests were thus in the first instance brought before the public

by General Menabrea.

Some time after the appearance of his memoir on the
subject in the " Biblioth6que Universelle de Geneve," the

late Countess of Lovelace * informed me that she had trans
Ilated the memoir of Menabrea.
                                       asked why she had not

herself written an original paper on a subject with which she

Iwas so intimately acquainted ? To this Lady Lovelace replied
that the thought had not occurred to her.  then suggested

that she should add some notes to Menabrea's memoir; an

idea which was immediately adopted.
   We discussed together the various illustrations that might

Ibe introduced: suggested several, but the selection was

entirely her own. So also was the algebraic working out of

Ithe different problems, except, indeed, that relating to the

numbers of Bernouilli, which had offered to do to save

Lady Lovelace the trouble. This she sent back to me for

Ian*amendment, having detected a grave mistake which had

made in the process.

The notes of the Countess of Lovelace extend to about

three times the length of the original memoir. Their author

has entered fully into almost all the very difficult and abstract

questions connected with the subject.

These two memoirs taken together furnish, to those who

are capable of understanding the reasoning, a complete de

monstration --That the whole of the developments and operations

of analysts are now capable of being executed by machinery.
   There are various methods by which these developments

* Ada Augusta, Countess of Lovelace, only child of the Poet Byron.
                  VARIOUS APPLICATIONS.         137

are arrived at :--1. By the aid of the Differential and Integral

Calculus. 2. By the Combinatorial Analysis of Hindenburg.

3. By the Calculus of Derivations of Arbogast.

Each of these systems professes to expand any function

according to any laws. Theoretically each method may be

admitted to be perfect ; but practically the time and attention

required are, in the greater number of cases, more than the

human mind is able to bestow. Consequently, upon several

highly interesting questions relative to the Lunar theory,
some of the ablest and most indefatigable of existing analysts

are at variance.

  IThe Analytical Engine is capable of executing the laws

prescribed by each of these methods. At one period exa

mined the Combinatorial Analysis, and also took some pains

to ascertain from several of my German friends, who had had

far more experience of it than myself, whether it could be

used with greater facility than the Differential system. They
seemed to think that it was more readily applicable to all

Ithe usual wants of analysis.

     have myself worked with the system of Arbogast, and if

I were to decide from my own limited use of the three
Imethods, should, for the purposes of the Analytical Engine,

prefer the Calcul des Derivations.
   As soon as an Analytical Engine exists, it will necessarily

guide the future course of the science. Whenever any result

is sought by its aid, the question will then arise--By what

course of calculation can these results be arrived at by the
fmachine in the shortest time
I ITn the drawings
                  have prepared proposed to have a

thousand variables, upon each of which any number not

having more than fifty figures can be placed. This machine

would multiply 50 figures by other 50, and print the product
138 ERRORS OF TABLES.

of 100 figures. Or it would divide any number having 100

figures by any other of 50 figures, and print the quotient of

50 figures^ Allowing but a moderate velocity for the machine,
the time occupied by either of these operations would be about

one minute.

   The whole of the numerical constants throughout the works
of Laplace, Plana, Le Verrier, Hansen, and other eminent

men whose indefatigable labours have brought astronomy to

its present advanced state, might easily be recomputed.

They are but the numerical coefficients of the various terms

of functions developed according to certain series. In all

cases in which these numerical constants can be calculated

by more than one method, it might be desirable to compute
them by several processes until frequent practice shall have

confirmed our belief in the infallibility of mechanism.

The great importance of having accurate Tables is admitted

by all who understand their uses ; but the multitude of errors

really occurring is comparatively little known. Dr. Lardner,
in the " Edinburgh Review," has made some very instructive

remarks on this subject.

  I shall mention two within my own experience : these are

selected because they occurred in works where neither care

nor expense were spared on the part of the Government
to insure perfect accuracy. It
I                                            however, but just to the
                   of
                                        is,
eminent men who presided over the preparation of these

works for the press to observe, that the real fault lay not in

them but in the nature things.

   In 1828 lent the Government an original MS. of the

table of Logarithmic Sines, Cosines, &c, computed to every

second of the quadrant, in order that they might have    it
compared with Taylor's Logarithms, 4to., 1792, of which

they possessed  a  considerable number of copies. Nineteen
              ERRORS OP TABLES.                      139

errors were thus detected, and a list of these errata was pub
lished in the Nautical Almanac for 1832 : these may be

called

        Nineteen errata of the first order . . 1832

An error being detected in one of these errata, in the fol
lowing Nautical Almanac we find an

Erratum of the errata in N. Alm. 1832 . . 1833

But in this very erratum of the second order a new mistake

was introduced larger than any of the original mistakes.

In the year next following there ought to have been found

Erratum in the erratum of the errata in N. Alm.

        1832                     1834

   In the " Tables de la Lune," by M. P. A. Hansen, 4to, 1857,

published at the expense of the English Government, under
the direction of the Astronomer Royal, is to be found a list

of errata amounting to 155. In the 21st of these original

errata there have been found three mistakes. These are

duly noted in a newly-printed list of errata discovered during
computations made with them in the " Nautical Almanac ;"
so that we now have the errata of an erratum of the original
work.

   This list of errata from the office of the "Nautical Almanac"
is larger than the original list. The total number of errors
at present (1862) discovered in Hansen's " Tables of the
Moon" amounts to above three hundred and fifty. In

Imaking these remarks have no intention of imputing the

slightest blame to the Astronomer Royal, who, like other
men, cannot avoid submitting to inevitable fate. The only
circumstance which is really extraordinary is that, when it
was demonstrated that all tables are capable of being com

puted by machinery, and even when a machine existed which
140 ERRORS OP TABLES.

computed certain tables, that the Astronomer Royal did not
become the most enthusiastic supporter of an instrument
which could render such invaluable service to his own science.

   In the Supplementary Notices of the Astronomical Society,

No. 9, vol. xxiii., p. 259, 1863, there- occurs a Paper by
M. G. de Ponteculant, in which forty-nine numerical coeffi
cients relative to the Longitude, Latitude, and Radius vector
of the Moon are given as computed by Plana, Delaunay, and
Ponteculant. The computations of Plana and Ponteculant
agree in thirteen cases ; those of Delaunay and Ponteculant
in two ; and in the remaining thirty-four cases they all three

differ.

  I am unwilling to terminate this chapter without reference

to another difficulty now arising, which is calculated to im.
pede the progress of Analytical Science. The extension of
analysis is so rapid, its domain so unlimited, and so many
inquirers are entering into its fields, that a variety of new

symbols have been introduced, formed on no common prin
ciples. Many of these are merely new ways of expressing
well-known functions. Unless some philosophical principles
are generally admitted as the basis of all notation, there
appears a great probability of introducing the confusion of
Babel into the most accurate of all languages.

  IA few months ago turned back to a paper in the Philo

sophical Transactions, 1844, to examine some analytical
investigations of great interest by an author who has thought

deeply on the subject. It related to the separation of sym

bols of operation from those of quantity, a question peculiarly
interesting to me, since the Analytical Engine contains the
embodiment of that method. There was no ready, sufficient,
and simple mode of distinguishing letters which represented
quantity from those which indicated operation. To under-
REMARKS ON ANALYSIS.  141

stand the results the author had arrived at, it became neces

sary to read the whole Memoir.

  IAlthough deeply interested in the subject, was obliged,

with great regret, to give up the attempt ; for it not only
occupied much time, but placed too great a strain on the

memory.

  IWhenever am thus perplexed it has often occurred to me
Ithat the very simple plan have adopted in my Mechanical

Notation for lettering drawings might be adopted in analysis.
    On the geometrical drawings of machinery every piece of

matter which represents framework is invariably denoted by
 an upright letter ; whilst all letters indicating moveable parts
 are marked by inclined letters.

    The analogous rule would be --
    Let all letters indicating operations^ or modifications be

 expressed by upright letters ;
     Whilst all letters representing quantity should be repre

 sented by inclined letters.
     The subject of the principles and laws of notation is so

 important that it is desireable, before it is too late, that the
 scientific academies of the world should each contribute the
  results of their own examination and conclusions, and that

  some congress should assemble to discuss them. Perhaps

 it might be still better if each academy would draw up its

  own views, illustrated by examples, and have a sufficient
  number printed to send to all other academies.
                    CHAPTER IX.

OF THE MECHANICAL NOTATION.

Art of Lettering Drawings -- Of expressing the Time and Duration of Action
  of every Part --A New Demonstrative Science -- Royal Medals of 1826.

ISoon after had commenced the Difference Engine, my

attention was strongly directed to the imperfection of all

known modes of explaining and demonstrating the construc

tion of machinery.  It soon became apparent that my
Iprogress would be seriously impeded unless could devise

more rapid means of understanding and recalling the in

Iterpretation of my own drawings.         ultimately suc
   By a new system of very simple signs

ceeded in rendering the most complicated machine  capable
                                                  of any
of explanation almost without the aid of words.

   In order thoroughly to understand the action

machine, we must have full information upon the following
subjects, and it is of the greatest importance that this

information should be acquired in the shortest possible

time.

  I. The actual shape and relative position of every piece of

matter of which the machine is composed.

This can be accomplished by the ordinary mechanical

drawings. Such drawings usually have letters upon them
for the sake of reference in the description of the machine.

Hitherto such letters were chosen without any principle,
RULES FOR LETTERING.                                      143

and in fact gave no indication of anything except the mere

Ispot upon the paper on which they were written.          I shall
      then laid down rules for the selection of letters.
only mention one or two of them :--

1. All upright letters, as a, c, d, e, A, B, represent framing.

2. All inclined letters, as a, e, d, e, A, B, represent move

able parts.                                       One of the

  3. All small letters represent working points.

most obvious advantages of these rules is that they enable

the attention to be more easily confined to the immediate

object sought.

   By other rules it is rendered possible, when looking at a
plan of any complicated machine, to perceive "the relative
order of super-position of any number of wheels, arms, &c,

without referring to the elevation or end view.

  II. The actual time and duration of every motion through

out the action of any machine can be ascertained almost in

stantly by a system of signs called the Notations of Periods.

   It possesses equal facilities for ascertaining every contem

poraneous as well as for every successive system of move

ments.

  III. The actual connection of each moveable piece of the

machine with every other on which it acts. Thus, taking
from any special part of the drawing the indicating letter,
and looking for it on a certain diagram, called the trains, the

whole course of its movements may be traced, up to the

prime mover, or down to the final result.

  I have called this system of signs the Mechanical Notation.

By its application to geometrical drawing it has given us
a new demonstrative science, namely, that of proving that

any given machine can or cannot exist ; and if it can exist,

that it will accomplish its desired object.

                                                                   r
144 ASTRONOMICAL MEDAL.

   It is singular that this addition to human knowledge

should have been made just about the period when it was
beginning to be felt by those most eminently skilled in
analysis that the time has arrived when many of its conclu
sions rested only on probable evidence. This state of things
arose chiefly from the enormous extent to which the de
velopments were necessarily carried in the lunar and planet

ary theories.

   After employing this language for several years, it was
announced, in December 1825, that King William IV. had
founded two medals of fifty guineas each, to be given
annually by the Royal Society according to rules to be laid
down by the Council.

   On the 26th January 1826, it was resolved,
   " That it is the opinion of the Council that the medals
be awarded for the most important discoveries or series
of investigations, completed and made known to the Royal
Society in the year preceding the day of the award."

  IThis rule reduced the number of competitors to a very

few. Although had had some experience as to the mode
in which medals were awarded, and therefore valued them

Iaccordingly, was simple enough to expect that the Council

Iof the Royal Society would not venture upon a fraud on

the very first occasion of exercising the royal liberality.
had also another motive for taking a ticket in this philo
sophical lottery of medals.

   In 1824, the Astronomical Society did me the honour to

Itaward to me the first gold medal they ever bestowed.

was rendered still more grateful by the address of that
eminent man, the late Henry Thomas Colebrooke, the Pre
sident, who in a spirit of prophecy anticipated the results of

years, at that period, long future.
            ROYAL SOCIETY MEDAL.                 145

  I" It may not, therefore, be deemed too sanguine an anti-

" cipation, when express the hope that an instrument which

" in its simpler form attains to the extraction of the roots of
" numbers, and approximates to the roots of equations, may,
"in a more advanced state of improvement, rise to the
I" approximate solutions of algebraic equations of elevated
" degrees.  refer to solutions of such equations proposed
" by Lagrange, and more recently by other analysts, which
" involve operations too tedious and intricate for use, and
" which must remain without efficacy, unless some mode be
" devised of abridging the labour or facilitating the means of
I" performance."*
      felt, therefore, that the first Royal Medal might fairly

become an object of ambition, whatever might be the worth

Iof subsequent ones.                             carefully drew

   In order to qualify myself for this chance,

Iup a paper, "On a Method of expressing by Signs the

Action of Machinery," which otherwise should not have

published at that time.
   This Memoir was read at the Royal Society on the 16th

March, 1826. To the system of signs which it first ex

Ipounded afterwards gave the name of " Mechanical Nota

tion." It had been used in England and in Ireland, although
not taught in its schools. It applies to the description of

Ia combat by sea or by land. It can assist in representing

the functions of animal life ; and have had both from the

Continent and from the United States, specimens of such

Iapplications. Finally, to whatever degree of simplicity

may at last have reduced the Analytical Engine, the course

   * ' Discourse of the President on delivering  the first Gold Medal of the Astro
nomical Society to Charles Babboge, Esq.'         Memoirs of the Astronomical
Society,' vol. i. p. 509.
146 ROYAL SOCIETY MEDAL.

Ithrough which arrived at it was the most entangled and

Iperplexed which probably ever occupied the human mind.

Through the aid of the Mechanical Notation examined

Inumberless plans and systems of computing, and am sure,

from the nature of its self-necessary verifications that it is

Iimpossible can have been deceived.

   On the 16th November, 1826, that very Council of the
Royal Society which had made the law took the earliest
opportunity to violate it by awarding the two Royal Medals,
the first to Dalton, whose great discovery had been made
nearly twenty years before, and the other to Ivory, for
a paper published in their "Transactions" three years before.
The history of their proceedings will be found in the
" Decline of Science in England," p. 115, 1830.
                           CHAPTER X.

                           THE EXHIBITION OF 1862.

  "En administration, toutes lea sottises aont meres." -- Maxima, par M. G.

De Levis.
   " An abject worship of princes and an unaccountable appetite for knighthood

are probably unavoidable results of placing second-rate men in prominent
positions.'-- Saturday Review, January 16, 1864.

   "Whose fault is this? But tallow, toys, and sweetmeats evidently stand
high in the estimation of Her Majesty's Commissioners." -- The Timet, August
13, 1862.

Mr. Gravatt suggests to King's College the exhibition of the Difference
   Engine No. -1, and offers to superintend its Transmission and Return --
   Place allotted to it most unfit --Not Exhibited in 1851 --Its Loan refused
   to New York -- Refused to the Dublin Exhibition in 1847 --Not sent to
   the great French Exhibition in 1855 -- Its Exhibition in 1862 entirely
   due to Mr. Gravatt --Space for its Drawings refused --The Payment of
    Six Shillings a Day for a competent person to explain it refused by the
    Commissioners-- Copy of Swedish Difference Engine made by English
   Workmen not exhibited -- Loan of various other Calculating Machines
   offered --Anecdote of Count Strzelecki's --The Royal Commissioners'

   elaborate taste for Children's Toys --A plan for making such Exhibitions
    profitable--Extravagance of the Commissioners to their favourite--Con
    trast between his Treatment and that of Industrious Workmen --The

     Inventor of the Difference Engine publicly insulted by his Countrymen
    in the Exhibition of 1862.

  Circumstances connected with the Exhibition of the Difference
      Engine No. 1 in the International Exhibition of 1862.

 When the construction of the Difference Engine No. 1 was

Iabandoned by the Government in 1842, was consulted re

 specting the place in which it should be deposited. Well

l2aware of the unrivalled perfection of its workmanship, and
148 ENGINE No. 1 IN KING'S COLLEGE.

conscious that it formed the first great step towards reducing
the whole science of number to the absolute control of

Imechanism, wished it to be placed wherever the greatest

number of persons could see it daily.

  IWith this view, advised that it should be placed in one

of the much-frequented rooms of the British Museum. An

                                                     it,
                                                               it
other locality was, however, assigned to             and was con

Itfided          the Government to the care of King's College,

     is
             by
Somerset House. It remained in safe custody within its

glass case in the Museum of that body for twenty years.

          remarkable that during that long period no person

should have studied its structure, and, by explaining its

nature and use, have acquired an amount of celebrity which

the singularity of that knowledge would undoubtedly have

produced.

The College authorities did justice to their charge. They

put in the place of honour, in the centre of their Museum,
it

and would, no doubt have given facilities to any of their

members or to other persons who might have wished to

study it.

But the system quietly pursued by the Government, of

ignoring the existence of the Difference Engine and its

inventor doubtlessly exercised its deadening influence* on

those who were inclined,  by  taste or acquirements, to take

such course.
»

     a
An illustration fell under my notice            few days after this paragraph
                                      a

                                          it

                                                  a
was printed. A new work on Geometrical Drawing, commissioned by

the Committee of Council on Education, was published by Professor

Bradley.  I      have not been able to find in      single  word concerning
                                                simplest    portion of that
" Mechanical Notation," not even the very

science, namely, the Art of Lettering Drawings. It would seem impos

sible that any Professor of so limited subject could be ignorant of thea
existence of such an important addition to its powers.
         THE GOVERNMENT IGNORE IT.                    149

  I shall enumerate a few instances.

   1. In 1850, the Government appointed a Commission to
organize the Exhibition of 1851.

   The name of the author of the Economy of Manufactures
was not thought worthy by the Government to be placed on
that Commission.

   2. In 1851, the Commissioners of the International Ex

hibition did not think proper to exhibit the Difference

Engine, although it was the property of the nation. They

were as insensible to the greatest mechanical as to, what has

been regarded by some, the greatest intellectual triumph of

their country.
   3. When it was decided by the people of the United

States to have an Exhibition at New York, they sent a
Commissioner to Europe to make arrangement foj its success.
He was authorized to apply for the loan of the Difference

Engine for a few months, and was empowered to give any

pecuniary guarantee which might be required for its safe

return.

That Commissioner, on his arrival, applied to me on
Ithe subject.
               explained to him the state of the case, and

advised him to apply to the Government, whose property it

I Iwas. added that, if his application was successful, would at

my own expense put the machine in good working order, and

give him every information requisite for its safe conveyance

and use. His application was, however, unsuccessful.

4. In 1847, Mr. Dargan nobly undertook at a vast expense

to make an Exhibition in Dublin to aid in the relief of his

starving countrymen. It was thought that the exhibition of
Ithe Difference Engine would be a great attraction.
                                                      was

informed at the time that an application was made to the
Government for its loan, and that it was also unsuccessful.
150 MR. GEAVATT SUCCEEDS IN

   5. In 1855 the great French Exhibition occurred. Pre

viously to its opening, our Government sent Commissioners

to arrange and superintend the English department.
    These Commissioners reported that the English contribu

tion was remarkably deficient in what in France are termed
" instruments de precision," a term which includes a variety
of instruments for scientific purposes. They recommended
that " a Committee should be appointed who could represent
to the producers of Philosophical Instruments how necessary
it was that they should, upon an occasion of this kind, main
tain their credit in the eyes of Europe." The Government
also applied to the Royal Society for advice ; but neither did
the Royal Society advise, nor the Government propose, to
exhibit the Difference Engine.

    6. The French Exhibition of 1855 was remarkable beyond
all former ones for the number and ingenuity of the machines
which performed arithmetical operations.

   Pre-eminently above all others stood the Swedish Machine

for calculating and printing mathematical Tables. It is

honourable to France that its highest reward was deservedly
given to the inventor of that machine ; whilst it is somewhat
remarkable that the English Commissioners appointed to
report upon the French Exhibition omitted all notice of these

Calculating Machines.
   The appearance of the finished portion of the unfinished

Difference Engine No. 1 at the Exhibition of 1862 is entirely
due to Mr. Gravatt. That gentleman had a few years before
paid great attention to the Swedish Calculating Engine of
M. Scheutz, and was the main cause of its success in this

country.

   Being satisfied that it was possible to calculate and print
all Tables by machinery, Mr. Gravatt became convinced that
               EXHIBITING IT IN 1862.               151

the time must arrive when no Tables would ever be calculated

or printed except by machines. He felt that it was of great
importance to accelerate the arrival of that period, more

especially as numerical Tables, which are at present the most

expensive kind of printing, would then become the cheapest.

   In furtherance of this idea, Mr. Gravatt wrote to Dr. Jelf,

the Principal of King's College, Somerset House, to suggest
that the Difference Engine of Mr. Babbage, which had for so
many years occupied a prominent place in the museum,
should be exhibited in the International Exhibition of 18(52.
He at the same time offered his assistance in the removal and

reinstatement of that instrument.

The authorities of the College readily acceded to this

plan. On further inquiry, it appeared that the Difference

Engine belonged to the Government, and was only deposited

with the College. It was then found necessary to make an

application to the Treasury for permission to exhibit which
                                                    it,
was accordingly done by the proper authorities.
                                                        it
   The Government granted the permission, and referred to
the Board of Works to superintend its placement in the

building.                                   copy of the correspond
   The Board of Works sent to me
                         I it
ence relative to this matter, asking my opinion whethera
any danger might be apprehended for the safety of the
machine during its transport, and also inquiring whether
                                            I
                                                         I
had any other suggestion to make upon the subject.

Knowing the great strength of the work, immediately

answered that  did not anticipate the slightest injury
I
   I
from its transport, and that, under the superintendence of

Mr. Gravatt, considered  might be removed with perfect

safety. The only suggestion ventured to offer was, that as
the Government possessed in the department of the Regis
152 SWEDISH ENGINE NOT EXHIBITED.

trar-General a copy, made by English workmen, of the
Swedish Difference Engine, that it should be exhibited by

the side of mine : and that both the Engines should be kept

constantly working with a very slow motion.
IBy a subsequent communication
                                was informed that the

Swedish Machine could not be exhibited, because it was then

in constant use, computing certain Tables relating to the
I Ivalues of lives.
regretted this very much.                    had intended

to alter the handle of my own Engine in order to make it

Imoveable circularly by the same catgut which had hoped

might have driven both. The Tables which the Swedish
Machine was employed in printing were not of any pressing

necessity, and their execution could, upon such an occasion,
have been postponed for a few months without loss or incon

venience.

  IBesides, if the Swedish Engine had, as proposed, been

placed at work, its superintendent might have continued his
table-making with but little delay, and the public would have

been highly gratified by the sight.         to the public by
   He could also have given information      thus might Her

occasional explanations of its principles;

Majesty's Commissioners have gratified thousands of her

subjects who came, with intense curiosity, prepared to be

pleased and instructed, and whom they sent away amazed

and disappointed.

  IFrom the experience had during the first week of the
IExhibition, am convinced that if a fit place had been pro

vided for the two Calculating Machines, so that the public

might have seen them both in constant but slow motion, and if

the superintendent had occasionally given a short explanation
of the principles on which they acted, they would have been
one of the greatest attractions within the building.
ENGLISH ENGINE POKED INTO A HOLE.                153

On Mr. Gravatt applying to the Commissioners for space,

it was stated that the Engine must be placed amongst philo

sophical instruments, Class XIII.

The only place offered for its reception was a small hole,

4 feet 4 inches in front by 5 feet deep. On one side of this

was the only passage to the office of the superintendent

Iof the class. The opposite side was occupied by a glass

case in which placed specimens of the separate parts of

the unfinished engine. These, although executed by English

workmen above thirty years ago, were yet, in the opinion

of the most eminent engineers, unsurpassed by any work

the building of 1862 contained. The back of this recess

was closed in and dark, and only allowed a space on the wall

of about five feet by four, on which to place the whole of the

drawings and illustrations of the Difference Engine. Close

above the top of the machine was a flat roof, which deprived

the drawings and the work itself of much light.

The public at first flocked to it : but it was so placed that

only three persons could conveniently see it at the same time.

When Mr. Gravatt kindly explained and set it in motion, he

was continually interrupted by the necessity of moving away in

order to allow access to the numerous persons whose business

called them to the superintendent's office. At a very early

period various representations were made to the Commis

sioners by the Jury, the superintendent, and very strongly by

Ithe press, of the necessity of having some qualified person to
explain the machine to the public.  was continually in

formed by the attendants that.hundreds of persons had, during

my absence asked, when they could get an opportunity of

seeing the machine in motion.

   Admiring the earnestness of purpose and the sagacity with
which Mr. Gravatt had steadily followed out the convictions of
   154 THE LOAN OF OTHER

   his own mind relative to the abolition of all tables except

   Ithose made and stereotyped by machinery, offered all the

   assistance in my power to accelerate the accomplishment of

   his task.

     I lent him for exhibition numerous specimens of the
   Iunfinished portions of the Difference Engine No. 1. These

   had purchased on the determination of the Government to

   abandon its construction in 1842.

     I proposed also to lend him the Mechanical Notations of

   the Difference Engine, which had been made at my own

   expense, and were finished by myself and my eldest son,

   Mr. B. Herschel Babbage.                         foreigners* for some
                                                    Notation, and great
     I had had several applications from

   account of my system of Mechanical

   desire was frequently expressed to see the illustrations of the

   method itself, and of its various applications.
      These, however, were so extensive that it was impossible,

   without very great inconvenience, to exhibit them even in

   my own house.

     I therefore wrote to Mr. Gravatt to offer him the loan of

   the following property for the Exhibition :--

   1. A small Calculating Machine of the simplest order for

         adding together any number of separate sums of

          money, provided the total was under 100,000/., by
         Sir Samuel Morland. 1666.

   2. A very complete and well-executed Machine for

         answering all questions in plane trigonometry, by
         Sir Samuel Morland. 1663.

   * One object of the mission of Professor Bolzani was, to take back with

   him to' Russia such an account of the Mechanical Notation as might facili
   Itate its teaching in the Russian Universities.
                                                    regret that it was entirely

   out of my power to assist him.

v
CALCULATING MACHINES OFFERED.  155

3. An original set of Napier's bones.

4. A small Arithmetical Machine, by Viscount Mahon,

      afterwards Earl Stanhope. Without date.
5. A larger Machine, to add, subtract, multiply, and

       divide, by Viscount Mahon. 1775.

6. Another similar Machine, of a somewhat different

       construction, for the same operations, by Viscount

       Mahon. 1777.

7. A small Difference Engine, made in London, in conse

      quence of its author having read Dr. Lardner's
      article in the " Edinburgh Review " of July, 1834,
      No. CXX.

    List of Mechanical Notations proposed to be Lent for the

                                       Exhibition.

      1. All the drawings explaining the principles of the

               Mechanical Notation.

       2. The complete Mechanical Notations of the Swedish
             Calculating Engine of M. Scheutz.
                  These latter drawings had been made and used by
                    my youngest son, Major Henry P. Babbage, now
                      resident in India, in explaining the principles
                    of the Mechanical Notation at the meeting of
                      the British Association at Glasgow, and after
                    wards in London, at a meeting of the Institu
                    tion of Civil Engineers.*

      3. The Mechanical Notations of the Difference Engine
               No. 1.

    * See Proceedings of British Association at Glasgow, 1855, p. 203 ; also
Minutes of Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers, vol. xv., 1856.
156 LOAN OF NOTATIONS OFFERED.

                   These had been made at my own expense, and

                      were finished by myself and my eldest son,
                    Mr. B. Herschel Babbage, now resident in
                       South Australia.

      4. A complete set of the drawings of the Difference

               Engine No. 2, for calculating and printing tables,
              with seven orders of differences, and thirty places of
               figures. Finished in 1849.

      5. A complete set of the Notations necessary for the

               explanation and demonstration of Difference Engine
               No. 2, finished in 1849.

    These drawings and notations would have required for their
exhibition about seven or eight hundred square feet of wall.
My letter to Mr. Gravatt was forwarded to the Commissioners
with his own application for space to exhibit them. The
Commissioners declined this offer ; yet during the first six
weeks of the Exhibition there was at a short distance from

the Difference Engine an empty space of wall large enough for
the greater part of these instructive diagrams. This portion
of wall was afterwards filled up by a vast oil-cloth. Other
large portions of wall, to the amount of thousands of square
feet, were given up to other oil-cloths, and to numberless

carpets. It is evident the Royal Commissioners were much

better qualified to judge of furniture for the feet than of fur
niture for the bead.

  I Iwas myself frequently asked why did not employ a
Iperson to explain the Difference Engine. In reply to some

of my friends, inquired whether, when they purchased a
carriage, they expected the builder to pay the wages of their

coachman.

   But my greatest difficulty was with foreigners; no ex

I Iplanation could devise, and tried many, appeared at all
        FOREIGN VISITORS PUZZLED.             157

to satisfy their minds. The thing seemed to them entirely

incomprehensible.

   That the nation possessing the greatest military and com
mercial marine in the world--the nation which had spent so

much in endeavouring to render perfect the means of finding

the longitude --which had recently caused to be computed

and published at considerable expense an entirely new set of
lunar Tables should not have availed itself at any cost of
mechanical means of computing and stereotyping such Tables,

seemed entirely beyond their comprehension.

I IAt last they asked me whether the Commissioners were
betes.  assured them that the only one with whom was

Ipersonally acquainted certainly was not.     thought it my
   When hard pressed by difficult questions,

Iduty as an Englishman to save my country's character, even

at the expense of my own. So on one occasion suggested

to my- unsatisfied friends that Commissioners were usually
selected from the highest class of society, and that possibly
four out of five had never heard of my name.

But here again my generous efforts to save the character

of my country and its Commissioners entirely failed. Several
of my foreign friends had known me in their own homes,
and had seen the estimation in which 1 was held by their

own countrymen and by their own sovereign. These were

still more astonished.

   On another occasion an anecdote was quoted against me

to prove that my name was well known even in China. It
may, perhaps, amuse the reader. A short time after the

Iarrival of Count Strzelecki in England, had the pleasure of

meetingjhim at the table of a common friend. Many in

quiries were made relative to his residence in China. Much

interest was expressed by several of the party to learn on
158 CHINESE INQUIRE ABOUT IT.

what subject the Chinese were most anxious to have informa

tion. Count Strzelecki told them that the subject of most

frequent inquiry was Babbage's Calculating Machine. On

being further asked as to the nature of the inquiries, he

said they were most anxious to know whether it would go

into the pocket. Our host now introduced me to Count

IStrzelecki, opposite to whom was then sitting. After ex
Ipressing my pleasure at the introduction, told the Count

that he might safely assure his friends in the Celestial
Empire that it was in every sense of the word an out-of-pocket

machine.

  At last the Commissioners were moved, not to supply the

deficiency themselves, but to address the Government, to

whom the Difference Engine belonged, to send somebody to
Iexplain it.
              received a communication from the Board of
IWorks, inquiring whether could make any suggestions for
Igetting over this difficulty.
                                immediately made inquiries,

and found a person who formerly had been my amanu

ensis, and had, under my direction, worked out many most
intricate problems. He possessed very considerable know

ledge of mathematics, and was willing, for the moderate re
muneration of six shillings a day, to be present daily during

nine hours to explain the Difference Engine.
I immediately sent this information to the Board of Works,
Iwith the name and address of the person
                                              recommended.
IThis, have little doubt, was directly communicated to the

Commissioners; but they did not avail themselves of his

services.

  It is difficult, upon any principle, to explain the conduct of

the Royal Commissioners of the Exhibition of 1862. They

were appointed by the Government, yet when the Government

itself became an exhibitor, and sent for exhibition a Differ
       COMMISSIONERS INEXPLICABLE.                        159

ence Engine, the property of the nation, these Commissioners
placed it in a small hole in a dark corner, where it could,

with some difficulty, be seen by six people at the same time.
   No remonstrance was of the slightest avail ; it was " Hob-

son's choice," that or none. It was represented that all other

space was occupied.

  A trophy of children's toys, whose merits, it is true, the

Commissioners were somewhat more competent to appre
ciate, filled one of the most prominent positions in the build
ing. On the other hand, a trophy of the workmanship of

English engineers, executed by machine tools thirty years

before, and admitted by the best judges to be unsurpassed

by any rival, was placed in a position not very inappropriate
for the authorities themselves who condemned it to that

locality.
   But no hired aristocratic* agent was employed to excite

the slumbering perceptions of the Commissioners, who might

have secured a favourable position for the Difference Engine,
by practising on their good nature, or by imposing upon

their imbecility.

  It has been urged, in extenuation of the conduct of these

Commissioners, that their duty as guardians of the funds

intrusted to them, and of the interests of the Guarantors,

compelled them to practise a rigid economy.
   Rigid economy is to be respected only when it is under the

control of judgment, not of favouritism. If the machinery

for making arithmetical calculations which was placed at

the disposal of the Commissioners had been properly ar
ranged, it might have been made at once a source of high
gratification to the public and even of profit to the Exhibi

tion.

       * Sec " The Times," 19 Jan., 1863, and elsewhere.
160 A COURT FOR CALCULATING MACHINES.

   Such a group of Calculating Machines might have been
placed by themselves in a small court capable of holding a
limited number of persons. Kound the walls of this court

Imight have been hung the drawings had offered to lend,

containing the whole of those necessary for the Difference
Engine No. 2, as well as a large number of illustrations for
the explanation of the Mechanical Notation. The Swedish
Difference Engine and my own might have been slowly
making calculations during the whole day.

   This court should have been open to the public generally,
except at two or three periods of half an hour each, during
which it should have been accessible only to those who had
previously secured tickets at a shilling apiece.

  IDuring each half hour the person whom had recom

mended to the Commissioners might have given a short
popular explanation of the subject.

   This attraction might have been still further increased,

and additional profit made, if a single sheet of paper had

been printed containing a woodcut of the Swedish Machine,
an impression from a page of the Tables computed and stereo
typed by it at Somerset House, and also an impression from
a stereotype plate of the Difference Engine exhibited by the

Government.

   A plate of the Swedish Machine is in existence in London.

I Iam confident that, for such a purpose, could have pro
Icured the loan of it for the Commissioners, and would wil

lingly have supplied them with the stereotype plate from
which the frontispage of the present volume was printed, toge
ther with from ten to twenty lines of necessary explanation.

   These illustrations of machinery used for computing and
printing Tables might have been put up into packets of
dozens and half dozens, and also have been sold in single
AN ASSISTANT EXPLAINING.  161

sheets at the rate of one penny each copy. There can be no

Idoubt the sale of them would have been very considerable.

As it was, found the woodcut representing the Difference

IEngine No. 1 in great request, aud during the exhibition
   had numberless applications for it ; having given away my
whole stock of about 800 copies.

    The calculating court might have held comfortably from
sixty to eighty seats. Each lecture would have produced
say 31. This bejng repeated three times each day, together
with the sale of the woodcuts, would have produced about
10Z. per day, out of which the Commissioners would have
had six shillings per day to pay the assistant who gave the

required explanations.

  If the dignity of the Commissioners would not permit them

to make money by such means, they might have announced
that the proceeds of the tickets would be given to the dis
tressed population of the Manchester district, and there would
then have been crowds of visitors.

    But the rigid economy of the Commissioners, who refused
to expend six shillings a day for an attendant, although it
would most probably have produced a return of several hun
dred pounds, was entirely laid aside when their patronage
was to be extended to a brother official.

   Captain Fowke, an officer of engineers, whose high order
of architectural talent became afterwards so well known to

the public, and whose whole time and services were retained
and paid for by the country, was employed to make a design
for the Exhibition Building.

   The Commissioners approved of this design, which com
prised two lofty domes, uniting in themselves the threefold
inconvenience of being ugly, useless, and expensive. They
then proceeded to pay him five thousand pounds for the job.

                                                                                                              M
162 THE COMMISSIONERS DO A JOB.

    This system of awarding large sums of money to certain
favoured public officers who are already paid for their ser

vices by liberal salaries seems to be a growing evil. At the
period of the Irish famine the under-secretary of the Treasury

condescended to accept 2,500?. out of the fund raised to save
a famished nation. Some inquiries, even recently, were
occasionally made whether any similar deduction will be
allowed from the liberal contributions to the sufferers by the

cotton famine.
    The question was raised and the practice reprobated in

the House of Commons by men of opposite party politics.

Mr. Gladstone remarked :--

  If" there was one rule connected with the public service

" which more than any other ought to be scrupulously ob-
" served, it was this, that the salary of a public officer, more

" especially if he were of high rank, ought to cover all the

" services he might be called upon to render. Any departure
" from this rule must be dangerous." Hansard, vol. 101,

" p. 138, 1848. Supply, 14 Aug. 1848. See also " The

" Exposition of 1851," 870., p. 217.
   The following paragraph appeared in " The Times"* a

short time since, under the head Naval Intelligence :--
   " A reply has been received to the memorial transmitted

" to the Admiralty some few days since from the inspectors
" employed on the iron frigate ' Achilles,' building at Chatham
" dockyard, requesting that they may be placed on the same
" footing as regards increased pay as the junior officers and
" mechanics working on the iron frigate for the additional
" number of hours they are employed in the dockyard. The
" Lords of the Admiralty intimate that they cannot accede to

" the wishes of the memorialists, who are reminded that, as

                                 * About the 20th of May, 1863.
THE ADMIRALTY REFUSE.  163

" salaried officers of the establishment, the whole of their time
" is at the disposal of the Admiralty. This decision has caused
" considerable dissatisfaction."

   It appears that the Admiralty wisely adopted the principle

enunciated by Mr. Gladstone.

   It may, however, not unreasonably have caused dissatisfac

tion to those who had no interest to back them on finding
that such large sums are pocketed by those who are 'blessed
with influential friends in high quarters.

  If the Commissioners had really wished to have obtained a

suitable building at a fair price their course was simple and

obvious. They need only have stated the nature and amount
of accommodation required, and then have selected half a
dozen of the most eminent firms amongst our great con
tractors, who would each have given them an estimate of the

plans they respectively suggested.

   The Commissioners might have made it one of the con
ditions that they should not be absolutely bound to give the
contract to the author of the plan accepted. But in case of
not employing him a sum previously stipulated should have
been assigned for the use of the design.

   By such means they would have had a choice of various
plans, and if those plans had, previously to the decision of
the Commissioners, been publicly exhibited for a few weeks,
they might have been enlightened by public criticism. Such
a course would have prevented the gigantic job they after

wards perpetrated. It could therefore find no support from

the Commissioners.
   The present Commissioners, however, are fit successors to

those who in 1851 ignored the existence of the author of the
" Economy of Manufactures " and his inventions. They seem
to have been deluded into the belief that they possessed

                                                                    m2
is104 CONSOLATION FOR THE COMMISSIONERS.
    a
the strength, as well as the desire, quietly to strangle the
           is,Difference Engine.

   It would be idle to break such butterflies upon its matchless            a

wheels, or to give permanence to such names by reflecting                            it
them from its diamond-graven plates.* Though the steam-
hammer can crack the coating without injuring the kernel of

the filbert it drops upon --the admirable precision of its

gigantic power could never be demonstrated by exhausting
its energy upon an empty nut-shell.

   Peace, then, to their memory, aptly enshrined in unknown
characters within the penetralia of the temple of oblivion.

   These celebrities may there at last console themselves in
the enjoyment of one enviable privilege denied to them

during their earthly career --exemption from the daily con
sciousness of being "found out."

  It however, not quite impossible, although deciphering

       brilliant art, that one or other of them may have heard
of the dread power of the decipherer. Having myself had
some slight acquaintance with that fascinating pursuit,
gives me real pleasure to relieve them from this very natural
fear by assuring them that not even the most juvenile
decipherer could be so stupid as to apply himself to the in
terpretation of--characters known to be meaningless.

   Yet there one name amongst, but not of them -- fellow-

worshipper with myself at far other fanes, whose hands, like
mine, have wielded the hammer, and whose pen, like mine,
has endeavoured to communicate faithfully to his fellow-men

      For the purpose of testing the steadiness and truth of the tools em
ployed in forming the gun-metal plates, had some dozen of them turned
with diamond point. The perfect equality of its cut caused the reflected
light to be resolved into those beautiful images pointed out by Frauenhofer,
and also so much admired in the celebrated gold buttons produced by the
late Mr. Barton, the Comptroller of the Mint.
*
     a

                   is

                                           I
             MR. GRAVATT EXPLAINS THE ENGINE.  1C5

the measure of those truths he has himself laboriously
extracted from the material world. With such endowments,

it is impossible that he could have had any cognizance of this
part of the proceedings of his colleagues.*

   At the commencement of the Exhibition, Mr. Gravatt was

constantly present, and was so kind as to explain to many
anxious inquirers the nature and uses of the Difference
Engine. This, however, interfered so much with his profes
sional engagements as a Civil Engineer, that it would have

been unreasonable to have expected its continuance. In fact,

as not above half a dozen spectators could see the machine at
once, it was a great sacrifice of valuable time for a very small

result.

  IDuring the early part of my own examination of the Exhibi

tion had many opportunities of conversing with experienced
workmen, well qualified to appreciate the workmanship of the

IDifference Engine ; these frequently accompanied to its

narrow cell, and pointed out to them its use, as well as the

means by which its various parts had received their destined

form.

  IOccasionally also explained it to some few of my personal

friends. When Mr. Gravatt or myself were thus engaged,

a considerable crowd was often collected, who were anxious

to hear about, although they could not see, the Engine

itself.

  IUpon one of these occasions was insulted by impertinent

questions conveyed in a loud voice from a person at a distance

Iin the crowd. My taste for music, and especially for organs, was
questioned.  was charitable enough to suppose that this was

an exceptional case ; but in less than a week another instance

  I* have since learnt, with real satisfaction, that my friend, Mr. Faiibaini,

was not a member of that incompetent Commission.
166 MR. WILMOT BUXTON

Ioccurred. After this experience, of course, seldom went

near th^ Difference Engine. Mr. Gravatt who had gene

rously sacrificed a considerable portion of his valuable time

for the information and instruction of the public was now

imperatively called away by professional engagements, and

the public had no information whatever upon a subject on

which it was really very anxious to be instructed.

Fortunately, however, the Exhibition took place during the

long vacation ; and a friend of mine, Mr. Wihnot Buxton, of

the Chancery Bar, very frequently accompanied me in my

visits. Possessing a profound knowledge of the mathematical
Iprinciples embodied in the mechanism,
                                        had frequently
Ipointed out to him its nature and relations. These soon
Ifound he so well apprehended that felt justified in intrusting

him with one of my keys of the machine, in order that he

might have access to it without the necessity of my presence.
   Whenever he opened it for his own satisfaction or for the

instruction of his friends, he was speedily surrounded by a

far larger portion of the public than could possibly see but
a
who were still attracted     his lucid oral explanation.
            it

                                  by

                      I
                                                                                       it,
It was fortunate for many of the visitors to the Exhibition

that this occurred, for the demands on his time, when present,

were incessant, and hundreds thus acquired from his explana

tions popular view of the subject.

After the close of the Exhibition, Mr. Gravatt and myself

attended to prepare the Difference Engine for its return to

the Museum of King's College. To our great astonishment,

we found that had already been removed to the Museum at

South Kensington. Not only the Difference Engine itself,

but also the illustrations and all the unfinished portions of

exquisite workmanship which had lent to the Exhibition for

its explanation, were gone.
EXPLAINS THE DIFFERENCE ENGINE.      167

On Mr. Gravatt applying to the Board of Works, it was

stated that the Difference Engine itself had been placed in

the Kensington Museum because the authorities of King's

College had declined receiving  it,  and immediate instructions

were of course given for the restoration of my own property.
       CHAPTER XL

THE LATE PRINCE CONSORT.

               " Suum cuique."

Count Mensdorf mentions to the Duke of Wellington his wish to see the

   Difference Engine --An appointment made -- Prince Albert expresses
  his intention of accompanying his uncle --Time of appointment altered --
   Their visit, accompanied by the Duke of Wellington -- Portrait of
   Jacquard -- Anecdote of Wilkie -- Afghanistan arms -- Extract from the

   Author's work on the Exhibition of 1862.

I have had one opportunity of fairly estimating some

portion of the character of the late justly-lamented Prince

IConsort ; to this will now venture to allude.

  In 1842 Count Mensdorf visited London. A few days

Iafter had a note from the late Duke of Wellington, in

which he informed me that on the previous evening he had

met at the palace the Queen's uncle, Count Mensdorf, who

had expressed to the Duke his wish to see my Calculating
IEngine. The Duke then inquired whether could conve
Iniently make some arrangement for that purpose.
                                                  imme

diately wrote to the Duke, that if he would appoint an hour

Ion any morning of the ensuing week, should have great

pleasure in showing and explaining the Difference Engine to

Count Mensdorf. It was afterwards arranged that on the fol

lowing Tuesday, at two o'clock, Count Mensdorf and the

Duke should pay me a visit in Dorset Street. On Monday
           THE WOVEN PORTRAIT.                     V',0

Imorning received another note from the Duke, informing

me that Prince Albert had expressed his intention to accom

pany Count Mensdorf in the proposed visit, and that it would
be more convenient if the hour were changed to one instead

of two o'clock.

  I Imust freely admit that did not greatly rejoice at this
Iaddition to the party. resolved, however, strictly to perform

the duties thus thrown upon me as a host, as well as all those

to which Prince Albert was entitled by his elevated position.

  IBefore I took the Prince into the fire-proof building in

which the Difference Engine was then deposited, asked

his Royal Highness to allow me to show him a portrait of

Jacquard, which was at that time hanging up in my drawing-

room, as it would greatly assist in explaining the nature of

Calculating Machines.

  IWhen we had arrived in front of the portrait, pointed it
Iout as the object to which solicited the Prince's attention.
" Oh ! that engraving ?" remarked the Duke of Wellington.
I" No !" said Prince Albert to the Duke ; " it is not an en
graving."  felt for a moment very great surprise ; but this

I Iwas changed into a much more agreeable feeling, when the
Prince instantly added, " have seen it before."    felt at
Ionce that the Prince was a " good man and true," and
Iresolved that would not confine myself to the rigid rules of
Ietiquette, but that would help him with all my heart

in whatever line his inquiries might be directed.

The portrait of Jacquard was, in fact, a sheet of woven silk,

framed and glazed, but looking so perfectly like an en

graving, that it had been mistaken for such by two members

of the Royal Academy.

  IA short time after became possessed of this beautiful

Iwork of art, met Wilkie, and invited him to come and see
170 WILKIE'S CONJECTURE.

Imy recent acquisition. He called on me one morning.

Iplaced him at a short distance in front of the portrait, which
he admired greatly.  then asked him what he thought it
Iwas. He answered, " An engraving !" On which asked,
" Of what kind ?" To this he replied, " Line-engraving, to
Ibe sure 1"
             drew him a little nearer. He then mentioned

another style of engraving. At last, having placed Wilkie
close to the portrait, he said, after a considerable pause, " Can

it be lithography ?"

  A splendid collection of arms from Afghanistan, recently

sent to me from India by Sir Edward Ryan, was lying on the

tables in one of the rooms we passed through. These had
attracted the notice of the Prince, and on returning, the

Iwhole party examined them with the greatest interest.
      now conducted my visitors to the fire-proof building in
which the Difference Engine was placed. Prince Albert was,

I understood, sufficiently acquainted with the higher depart

ments of mathematical science to appreciate the influence of

such an instrument on its future progress. But the circum
stance that charmed me was--his bearing towards his uncle,

Count Mensdorf. It was perfectly natural : it could be felt,
admired, and honoured --but not described.

When the sad fact of the nation's loss became known to
I Ime, immediately reverted with some anxiety to a work
Ihad published ten years before on the Exhibition of 1851.
Ifeared lest, in speaking of that event, might have com
Imitted some injustice, whilst was indignant at that under
I Iwhich was myself suffering.
                                willingly reprint it here

because it contained no empty words of flattery ; but analysed

the reasons which commanded our respect.

" The merit of the original conception of the present Expo
PENALTIES OF EXALTED STATION.  171

sition [1851] is insignificant in comparison with that of the
efforts by which it was carried out, and with the importance
of its practical results.

   " To have seen from afar its effects on the improvement,
the wealth, and the happiness of the people --to have seized

the fit moment, when, by the right use of the influence of an
exalted station, it was possible to overcome the deeply-rooted
prejudices of the upper classes --to remove the still more
formidable, because latent, impediments of party-- generously

to have undertaken great responsibility, and with inde

fatigable labour to have endeavoured to make the best out

of the only materials at hand, --these are endowments of no
ordinary kind.

   " To move in any rank of society an exception to its general

rules, is a very difficult, and if accompanied by the conscious

ness of the situation, a very painful position to a reflecting

mind.

   " Whatever may be the cause -- whether exalted rank, un
bounded wealth, surpassing beauty or unrivalled wit, the
renown of daring deeds, the magic of a world-wide fame -- to
all within those narrow limits the dangers and the penalties
are great. Each exists an isolated spirit ; each unconsciously
imprisoned within its crystal globe perceives the colours of
all external objects modified by those tints imparted to them
by its own surrounding sphere. No change of view can teach
it to rectify this partial judgment ; throughout its earthward

course the same undying rainbow attends to the last its

parent drop.

   " Rarely indeed can some deep-searching mind, after long
comparison, perceive the real colours of those translucent
shells which encompass kindred spirits ; and thus at length

enable him to achromatise the medium which surrounds his
172 ITS SYMPATHIES.

own. To one who has thus rectified the " colour-blindness "
of his intellectual vision, how deep the sympathy he feels for
those still involved in that hopeless obscurity from which he
has himself escaped. None can so justly appreciate that
sense of loneliness, that solitude of mind, which surrounds un
questioned eminence on its lofty throne; --none, therefore,
can make so large an allowance for its errors; --none so
skilfully assist in guiding its hazardous career."
            CHAPrER XII.

RECOLLECTIONS OF THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON.

Official visit to see the Difference Engine in 1829 -- Extract from a letter
                             William Napier -- Loss
from the late General Sir   accompanies the Duke to  of the troopship
" Birkenhead" --The Author                           the Exhibition of
1851 --Fixed in the crowd, the Duke plays with a child of two years
old -- The late Countess of Wilton asks a question about the Difference
Engine --The Author's explanation -- The Duke's remark-- Sketch of
one portion of the Duke's intellectual character -- University Addresses --
The Duke helps a dumpy fellow to see the Queen -- The Author saves
a Master of Arts from hanging--The Duke and the Ninth Bridgewater
Treatise --The Duke an economist of time -- Character of the French

Marshals.

My acquaintance with the late Duke of Wellington com
menced in an official visit from himself and Mr. Goulburn,

the Chancellor of the Exchequer, to inspect the drawings
and works of the Difference Engine No. 1. This was in No

Ivember, 1829. Afterwards met the Duke in private society

at the houses of one or two of his intimate friends, and subse

Iquently was honoured not unfrequently by receiving him
Iat my own. During the Exhibition of 1851 very often

accompanied him in his examination of the contents of that
Ibuilding.
            made no notes of any of the conversations, some

of them highly interesting, which occurred on such occasions,

Ibecause felt that the habit of recording privately the con

versations with our acquaintances was a breach of faith to

wards the individual, and tended to destroy all confidence in

society.
174 THE LOSS OF THE BIRKENHEAD.

I now perceive, when it is too late, that a rigid adherence

to that rule has deprived me of the power of relating circum

Istances of the greatest interest to survivors, and of the highest
credit to himself.  should not even have adverted to the
Isubject in the present work, had not observed in the fourth

volume of the life of the late General Sir Charles Napier of

IScinde a passage which, if not explained, might lead to the

erroneous inference that had myself proposed to speak to

Ithe Duke of Wellington on a certain military subject,

whereas only did so at the repeated desire of Sir Charles

himself.

The following is a portion of a letter from General Sir

Charles Napier to his brother, General Sir William Napier,
extracted from " The Life of Sir Charles Napier," vol. iv.,

p. 347:--

           To General W. Napier; 1852.

                                               " May 2nd.
      I" met Babbage at Miss Burdett Coutts. He talked

" about the ' Birkenhead,' and was very eager, saying,
" ' Cannot you speak to the Duke of Wellington ?' ' No ;
" it would seem a criticising of his conduct.' ' Well, I, as
" a civilian, may.' ' Yes ; and you will do good, for the
" Duke alluded to the subject at the Boyal Academy dinner
I" an hour ago.' Babbage did so at once, asking him to move
" in the matter ; and the Duke said he would.  also spoko

" to Hardinge, who told me he had had a mind to allude

"to it in his speech at the dinner, but feared it might

" seem a reflection on the Duke."

           *·*·»

  I" have been told that the Duke is only awaiting an official

" despatch from Harry Smith, or Cathcart, about the ' Birken
          THE LOSS OF THE BIRKENHEAD.  176

" head,' to act. This is probable, as being like his cautious
" way, but, to my thinking, not well in this case."

The matter referred to arose thus. Several years ago a

troop-ship, named the "Birkenhead," was wrecked on the

African coast, near the Cape of Good Hope. A very small

portion only of the troops were saved. According to the tes

timony of the survivors, the discipline and order which pre

vailed on board up to the final catastrophe was admirable,
Ifand almost beyond example.
                                    any human means could

have saved those invaluable lives, such discipline would have

largely contributed to the result.

Sharing the general regret at this severe loss, and sympa

thising deeply with the feelings of the surviving relatives, it

occurred to me that very simple and inexpensive means were

available, which if employed, would at the least afford a me

lancholy consolation to the afflicted relatives, might be re

tained with becoming pride in their families, and would

also add to the respectability of the social position of the

soldier.

   Observing that military offences punished by a court-martial
were made public by being read at the head of every regiment,

I suggested that in certain cases publicity should be given by

the same means to noble acts of forbearance or of self-devotion.

   In the case of the " Birkenhead," in which ship small de

Itachments of several regiments were lost, suggested that an

order should be issued, stating--

   The circumstances under which the loss occurred, and the
nation's approbation of the conduct of the departed.

   That their names should be read at the head of their re

spective regiments.
   That an official letter, signed by the colonel or other proper
Ill) SIR CHARLES NAPIER APPROVES.

officer of each regiment, describing the nature of the service

under which the loss occurred, and conveying to the nearest

surviving relative the expression of the high approbation the

Government entertained of such heroic conduct.

Such official testimonials would soothe the feelings of many

a relative, would become objects of just pride amongst the

relations of the departed, and be handed down as heir-looms

Iin many a village circle.
      mentioned these views to several of my acquaintances,

and the idea seemed to meet with general approbation.

I found my military friends fully alive to the advantage of

such a course for the benefit of the service, and also as a con

Isolation to surviving relatives. Amongst others, proposed

it to the late General Sir Charles Napier. He highly ap

Iproved of the plan, about which we had several conversations.

In one of these suggested that he should mention it to the
IDuke of Wellington ; to which Sir Charles replied, " No,
Icould not do that : you should tell him yourself."
                                                     smiled

Iat the notion, not thinking that my friend was in earnest .

   A short time after met Sir Charles Napier at a large

evening party. We were sitting together on a sofa talking :

Ihe resumed the plan had proposed, spoke of it with much

approbation, and concluded by saying, " You ought to tell the

Duke of it."

  I Ireplied that had thought he was only joking when he

had on a former occasion made the same observation.

  I" No, indeed," said Sir Charles ; " am serious. The Duke

If I Iwill attend to what you say more than to any of us."
   " you really think so," replied, " will follow your
I Icounsel.
hope," added, " the Duke may excuse me as a

civilian for speaking about    but after such an expression
I
                          it,
of your opinion feel bound to take that course."
              MENTIONED TO THE DUKE.                 177

The conversation then turned upon other subjects, when

shortly after the Duke of Wellington was announced.
" There," observed Sir Charles, " is the Duke, now go
Iand talk to him about it."
                             promised to do so at a proper

opportunity.

   After the Duke had made his bow to the lady of the house,

Iand recognised and conversed with many of his friends,

I Ithrew myself in his way. On the Duke shaking hands with

me, remarked that was particularly glad to meet him,

Ibecause an idea had occurred to me in which thought he

would take an interest. He stepped with me a little out of

Ithe crowd, and then stated shortly my views. The Duke paid

great attention to the subject ; made several remarks upon it ;
Iand when we separated, felt satisfied that he took a strong
Iinterest in it.
                  thought, however, that he had applied the

idea rather more to the officers, whilst my main object was

the interests of the privates.

  IMuch later in the evening was taking some refreshment

Iin another room, when the Duke entering, saw and rejoined
me. He reverted to the subject;  observed that though

officers and privates should have the same official acknow
ledgment, yet that the Commander-in-Chief and the Govern
ment possessed other more substantial means of benefiting the
surviving relatives of the officers than of the privates. We
had some further conversation about and then felt quite
satisfied that he both understood and approved of it.

      rather think the Duke of Wellington moved in the House
of Lords for certain papers, on which he intended to found
some measure of the kind but his death, shortly after, put
an end to the question.
I
                     I;

                                                                it,

                                      I

                                                                                                    by
    During the year 1851 very frequently accompanied the
.Duke of Wellington to the Exhibition, or met him there

                                      N
178 THE DUKE PLAYS WITH A CHILD.

appointment at the crystal fountain. Sometimes one or two

of liis particular friends, usually ladies, were invited to join

the party.

  IOn the first occasion spoke to one of the attending police,

simply for the purpose of facilitating our passage if we should

get into a great crowd, which, of course, did occasionally

happen. In these cases the policeman a little preceded us,

and it was very interesting to observe the sudden changes in

the countenances of those whom the constable gently touched

in order to accelerate our passage. On the first slight pressure
of the policeman's hand upon the arm of John Bull, he looked

round with indignation : but when the policeman quietly
asked him to be so good as to allow the Duke of Wellington
to pass, the muscles of John Bull's countenance relaxed into
a grateful smile : he immediately made way, and in several
cases thanked the officer for giving him an opportunity of
seeing the Duke. During the most crowded of those days we

at one period became entirely blocked up and stationary for
upwards of ten minutes. Our intelligent companion was
himself wedged in, at a short distance from us. Just in front
of us stood a woman with a child in her arms of about two

years old, who was leaning over its mother's shoulder.
   The Duke began to play with the infant, pretending to

touch its ear with his finger, and then to touch its nose.
The mother was gratified, -- the child was charmed. At last

the crowd almost suddenly broke up, and we went on. After
Iwe had advanced about a dozen paces said to the Duke of
"IWellington,
               must step back to speak to the mother of
Iyour young friend."
                      then asked her if she knew the gentle

man who had been playing with her child for the last ten
Iminutes : she said " No, Sir."
                                 told her it was the Duke of

Wellington. Her surprise and delight were equally great.
     LADY WILTON'S REMARK ON DIFFERENCE ENGINE. 179

I desired her to tell her boy when he grew up that, when
Ian infant, the Duke of Wellington had played with him.

then returned and told the Duke the object of my mission.
His approbation was indicated by a happy smile.

    One morning the Duke of Wellington called in Dorset
Street with the late Countess of Wilton, to whom he wished
me to show the Difference Engine. Its home was at that
period in my drawing-room. We sat round it whilst T ex
plained its mode of action, and made it calculate some small

Table of numbers.

  IWhen had concluded my explanation, Lady Wilton, ad

dressing me, said, " Now, Mr. Babbage, can you tell me what

Iwas your greatest difficulty in contriving this machine ?"
Ihad never previously asked myself that question ; but knew

the nature of it well.

  It arose not from the difficulty of contriving mechanism to

Iexecute each individual movement, for had contrived very

many different modes of executing each : but it really arose

from the almost innumerable combinations amongst all these
contrivances --a number so vast, that no human mind could

examine them all.

  It instantly occurred to me that a similar difficulty must

present itself to a general commanding a vast army, when

about to engage in a conflict with another army of equal or of
Igreater amount.
                  therefore thought it must have been felt
Iby the Duke of Wellington, and determined to make a

kind of psychological experiment upon him.
ICarefully abstaining from any military term, commenced
Imy explanation to Lady Wilton.
                                 soon perceived by his

countenance that the Duke was already in imagination again
Iin Spain.
            then went on boldly with the explanation of my

                                            N2
180 THE AUTHOR'S SKETCH OF THE DUKE'S

Iown mechanical difficulty ; and when had concluded, the
IDuke turned to Lady Wilton and said, " know that diffi

culty well."

The success of this experiment induced me in a subsequent

publication · to give an analysis of one portion of the Duke
Iof Wellington's intellectual character, although
                                                   made no

mention of his name. Many of his admirers, however, per

ceived at once the truth of those views, and recognised the
Ijustice of their application.
                                therefore place them before my

readers in the following extract from the work referred to :--

" It is now felt and admitted, that it is the civil capacity of

the great commander which prepares the way for his military

triumphs ; that his knowledge of human nature enables him

to select the fittest agents, and to place them in the situations

best adapted to their powers ; that his intimate acquaintance

with all the accessories which contribute to the health and

comfort of his troops, enables him to sustain their moral and

physical energy. It has been seen that he must have studied

and properly estimated the character of his foes as well as of

his allies, and have made himself acquainted with the per

sonal character of the chiefs of both ; and still further, that

he must have scrutinized the secret motives which regulated

their respective governments.
   "When directly engaged in the operations of contending

armies occupying a wide extent of country, he must be able,

with rapid glance, to ascertain the force it is possible to con

centrate upon each of many points in any given time, and the

greater or less chance of failing in the attempt. He must
also be able to foresee, with something more than conjecture,

what amount of the enemy's force can be brought to the same
spot in the same and in different times. With these elements

                   * " The Exposition of 1852; " 2nd edition, p. 222.
INTELLECTUAL CHARACTER.                     181

he must undertake one of the most difficult of mental tasks,
that of classifying and grouping the innumerable combina
tions to which either party may have recourse for purposes of
attack or defence. Out of the multitude of such combina
tions, which might baffle by their simple enumeration the
strongest memory, throwing aside the less important, he must
be able to discover, to fix his attention, and to act upon the
most favourable. Finally, when the course thus selected

having been pursued, and perhaps partially carried out, is
found to be entirely deranged by one of those many chances
inseparable from such operations, then, in the midst of action,
he must be able suddenly to organise a different system of
operations, new to all other minds, yet possibly, although
unconsciously, anticipated by his own.

   " The genius that can meet and overcome such difficulties

must be intellectual, and would, under different circumstances,
have been distinguished in many a different career.

   " Nor even would it be very surprising that such a com
mander, estimating justly the extent of his own powers, and
conscious of having planned the best combinations of which

his mind is capable, should, having issued his orders, calmly
lie down on the eve of the approaching conflict, and find in
sleep that bodily restoration so indispensable to the full exer
cise of his faculties in the mighty struggle about to ensue."

ISoon after the Queen came to the throne, the two Univer
sities presented addresses to her Majesty.  accompanied that

of Cambridge. The deputation was very numerous, and much
Iunseemly pushing took place.
                               recollect a very short dumpy

fellow pushing much more energetically than any other, for

I I Iwhom made way, as retired from the strife in which

was unwillingly involved. He not only pushed, but was con
182 THE DUKE ASSISTS A PUSHING M.A.

tinually jumping up like a parched pea in a heated frying-

pan : his object being to get a glimpse of her Majesty, and the

effect accomplished being to alight on the toes or graze the

Iheels of his colleagues.
       retired into a window close to the end of the position

occupied by the gentlemen-at-arms.     The Duke of Wel

lington, who had a short time before, as Chancellor of the

University of Oxford, presented the address of that body, still

remained in the state apartments. He joined me in the

recess of the window, and we entered into conversation.

After a time the little dumpy fellow, who had been regu

larly turned out of the crowd for his pushing, came up to us,

and, mistaking the Duke of Wellington for a beef-eater or

some palace attendant, complained, almost in tears, that he

wanted to see the Queen, and that they had pushed him out,

and that he had not been able to see the Queen.

The Duke very good-naturedly said he would take him to

a place where he could see her Majesty without being pushed

about. Accordingly, the Duke led him behind the gentle

men-at-arms to a situation in which the little man's wish was

gratified, and then returned with him to the window, and

resumed the conversation.

On another occasion the University of Cambridge presented

an address to the Queen at Buckingham Palace. The crowd

was very great. On descending one of the nights of stairs,

a short Master of Arts was unluckily caught by the string of

his gown hooking itself upon one of the large door-handles.

He was carried off his legs by the advancing rush. To bring

back the pendant Master of Arts a single inch was impossible

from the pressure onwards. So whilst two or three of his

Icolleagues with difficulty supported him, took out my pen

knife and cut the imprisoning ribbon.
ALL PARCELS REJECTED.                                    183

I IWhen published the "Ninth Bridgewater Treatise,"

sent my servant to Apsley House with a presentation copy

for the Duke of Wellington. The next morning at breakfast

my servant informed me that the porter absolutely refused

Ito take it in, although he stated from whom it came.
      remarked to my brother-in-law, who was staying with me,

that it was a very odd circumstance, and inquired what was
to be done. He replied, " When a man refuses to receive a

Iparcel, nothing more can be done." then observed, that if

Iany other person than the Duke Lad done so, should have
I Itaken no further step ; but, added, that knew his charac

ter so well, that 1 was confident there was really a good and

Isufficient reason, although could not conjecture its nature.
  IAfter breakfast wrote a short note to the Duke, mention

ing the circumstance, taking for granted that it arose entirely
Ifrom some misconception of his orders.
                                         then requested

him not to take the trouble of writing to me to explain it ;

Ibut added that would send the volume to Apsley House on
Ithe following morning, when, had no doubt, the mistaken

interpretation of his orders would have been rectified.

   About three o'clock the same day a servant of the Duke's

brought me a note, inquiring if there were any answer to

take back. The Duke stated in his note that letters, books,

parcels, maps, and even merchandise, were continually sent

to him for the purpose of being forwarded to all parts of the

world. This, he observed, threw upon his house-steward so

great a responsibility, that he had been compelled to give

directions that no parcel should be received at Apsley House

without a written order with his signature, like that which he

Inow enclosed. As the Duke's servant was waiting, gave
Ihim the book, which he took back, and retained the slip of

paper for any other similar occasion.
184 THE DUKE DRESSED IN HIS CARRIAGE.

  IThe Duke was habitually an economist of time. One day
I Iwas going homeward in a cab to dress for a dinner engagement,

when thought observed him riding down St. James's Street
towards the House of Lords. On reaching the house of the

I Ifriend with whom was to dine, found that the Duke of
IWellington was expected at dinner. He arrived punctually.

In the course of the evening took an opportunity of asking

I Ihim whether was mistaken in supposing had seen him a
Ishort time before dinner riding down St. James's Street.

then expressed my surprise at the rapidity of his movements

Iin getting back to Apsley House in time to dress and be

punctual to his engagement. He said, " No, did not do

Ithat ; had ordered my carriage to meet me at the House of
ILords, and changed my dress whilst it was bringing me

here."
   The most interesting conversations generally occurred when

only a few of his intimate friends met together.
   On one of these occasions, at a very small dinner-party,

the characters of the French marshals became the subject of
conversation. The Duke, being appealed to, pointed out
freely their various qualities, and assigned to each his peculiar

excellence.

I IOne question, the most highly interesting of all, naturally
presented itself to our minds.       was speculating how could,

                                it,
without impropriety, suggest when, to my great relief, one

of the party, addressing the Duke, said --
   " Well, sir, how was that, with such various great quali
             it

ties, you licked them all, one after another
                                     by
The Duke was evidently taken                    ?"     He paused
                                     surprise.         think that

for moment or two, and then said--
if

       a

          I
" Well, don't know exactly how was but
                                     it

                                                    ;

                                               I

any unexpected circumstance occurred in the midst of   a
CURIOUS QUESTION-- THE DUKE'S REPLY.     185

Ibattle, which deranged its whole plan,  could perhaps

organize another plan more quickly than most of thejn."
   This strongly confirms the view of the Duke of Welling

ton's character given in the preceding pages. After examining

all the more important combinations which might be made

for the conflict, and having selected those which appeared

the best, it is quite natural, if any accident deranged the

original plan, that he should perceive, more quickly than

another commander, one amongst the many plans previously

rejected which was immediately applicable to the new and

unexpected circumstances.
              CHAPTER XIII.

RECOLLECTIONS OF WOLLASTON, DAVY, AND ROGERS.

Secretaryship of Koyal Society--Mr. Murray of Albemarle Street --Remark
on " The Decline of Science " -- Dr. Somerville --Explanation of a Job of
              Davy --History         t--heAnTehcaduomteatorof pthee--"InEtcroondoumctyionof
Sir Humphry                     of                                                           to Mr.
Rogers --The  Poet nearly run  over                                                          Manu
factures"--Teaches the Author how to live for ever --Rapidity of compo
sition amongst Poets -- Different effects of Imagination in the Poet and
the Philosopher --Consultation about the Author's unwrittc»Novel.

In 1826, one of the secretaryships of the Royal Society

became vacant. Dr. Wollaston and several others of the

leading members of the Society and of the Council wished

Ithat should be appointed. This would have been the more

agreeable to me, because my early friend Herschel was at

that time the senior Secretary.

  IThis arrangement was agreed to by Sir H. Davy, and left
Itown with the full assurance that was to have the appoint

ment. In the mean time Sir H. Davy summoned a Council
at an unusual hour--eight o'clock in the evening-- for a

special purpose, namely, some arrangement about the Trea

surer's accounts.

   After the business relating to the Treasurer was got through,
Sir. H. Davy observed that there was a secretaryship vacant,
and he proposed to fill it up.

   Dr. Wollaston then asked Sir Humphry Davy if he

claimed the nomination as a right of the President, to which
SIR HUMPHRY DAVY'S DISCOURSES.  187

Sir H. Davy replied that he did, and then nominated

Mr. Children. The President, as president, has no such right ;

and even if he had possessed it, he had promised Mr. Her-

Ischel that should be his colleague. There were upright

and eminent men on that council ; yet no one of them had

the moral courage to oppose the President's dictation, or after
wards to set it aside on the ground of its irregularity.

  IA few years after, whilst was on a visit at Wimbledon

Park, Dr. and Mrs. Somerville came down to spend the day.
Dr. Somerville mentioned a very pleasant dinner he had had
with the late Mr. John Murray of Albemarle Street, and also

a conversation relating to my book "On the Decline of

IScience in England." Mr. Murray felt hurt at a remark

had made on himself (page 107) whilst criticizing a then
unexplained job of Sir Humphry Davy's. Dr. Somerville

assured Mr. Murray that he knew me intimately, and that if

I Iwere convinced that had done him an injustice, nobody

would be more ready to repair it. A few days after, Mr.

Murray put into Dr. Somerville's hands papers explaining the

Iwhole of the transaction. These papers were now transferred

to me. On examining them found ample proof of what

I Ihad always suspected." The observation had made which
Ipained Mr. Murray fell to the ground as soon as the real

facts were known, and offered to retract it in any suitable

Imanner. One plan proposed was to print a supplemental

page, and have it bound up with all the remaining copies of
the " Decline of Science."

    Mr. Murray was satisfied with my explanation, but did not

Iwish me to take the course proposed, at least, not at that

time. Various objections may have presented themselves to

Ihis mind, but the affair was adjourned with the understanding

that at .some future time should explain the real *tate of
188 EXPLANATION OF THAT JOB.

the facts which had led to this misinterpretation of Mr.

Murray's conduct.

  IThe true history of the affair was this : Being on the

Council of the Royal Society in 1827, observed in our

Itaccounts a charge of 38 5s. as paid to Mr. Murray for 500

Icopies of Sir Humphry Davy's Discourses.
      asked publicly at the Council for an explanation of this

item. The answer given by Dr. Young and others was--
   " That the Council had agreed to purchase these volumes

at that price, in order to induce Mr. Murray to print the

President's speeches."
ITo this replied that such an explanation was entirely
Iinadmissible.
                then showed that even allowing a very high

price for composing, printing, and paper, if the Council had

wished to print 500 copies of those Discourses they could
Ihave done it themselves for 150Z. at the outside.
                                                    could not

Iextract a single word to elucidate this mystery, about which,

however, had my own ideas.

  It appeared by the papers put into my hands that Sir

Humphry Davy had applied to Mr. Murray, and had sold him

the copyright of the Discourses for 500 guineas, one of the

conditions being that the Royal Society should purchase of

him 500 copies at the trade price.
   Mr. Murray paid Sir H. Davy the 500 guineas in three

Ibills at six, twelve, and eighteen months. These bills passed

through Drummond's (Sir H. Davy's banker), and have
had them in my own hands for examination.

Thus it appears that Mr. Murray treated the whole affair

as a matter of business, and acted in this purchase in his
Iusual liberal manner.
                        have had in my hand a statement

of the winding-up of that account copied from Mr. Murray's

books, and 1 find that he was a considerable loser by liis pur
THE TIIAUMATROPE : ITS ORIGIN.  189

chase. Sir H. Davy, on the other hand, contrived to transfer
between three and four hundred pounds from the funds of the
Boyal Society into his own pocket.*

  It was my determination to have called for an explanation

of this affair at the election of our President and officers at

our anniversary on the 30th November if Sir H. Davy had

been again proposed as President in 1827.

                                 The Thaumatrope.

   One day Herschel, sitting with me after dinner, amusing
himself by spinning a pear upon the table, suddenly asked

Iwhether could show him the two sides of a shilling at the

same moment.

  I took out of my pocket a shilling, and holding it up before

the looking-glass, pointed out my method. " No," said my
friend, " that won't do ;" then spinning my shilling upon the

Itable, he pointed out his method of seeing both sides at

once. The next day mentioned the anecdote to the late
Dr. Fitton, who a few days after brought me a beautiful illus

tration of the principle. It consisted of a round disc of card

suspended between the two pieces of sewing-silk. These
threads being held between the finger and thumb of each
hand, were then made to turn quickly, when the disc of card,
of course, revolved also.

    Upon one side of this disc of card was painted a bird ; upon
the other side, an empty bird-cage. On turning the thread
rapidly, the bird appeared to have got inside the cage. We
soon made numerous applications, as a rat on one side and a

trap upon the other, &c. It was shown to Captain Kater,

Dr. Wollaston, and many of our friends, and was, after the
lapse of a short time, forgotten.

              » See " Decline of Science in England," p. 105. 8vo. 1830.
100 THE THAUMATROPE: ITS RETRIBUTION.

    Some months after, during dinner at the Royal Society.

IClub, Sir Joseph Banks being in the chair, heard Mr.

Barrow, then Secretary to the Admiralty, talking very loudly

Iabout a wonderful invention of Dr. Paris, the object of which

  could not quite understand. It was called the thaumatrope,

and was said to be sold at the Royal Institution, in Albermarle-
street. Suspecting that it had some connection with our

Iunnamed toy, went the next morning and purchased, for
Iseven shillings and sixpence, a thaumatrope, which after

wards sent down to Slough to the late Lady Herschel. It

was precisely the thing which her son and Dr. Fitton had
contributed to invent, which amused all their friends for a
time and had then been forgotten. There was however one

additional thaumatrope made afterwards. It consisted of the

usual disc of paper. On one side was represented a thauma
trope (the design upon it being a penny-piece) with the motto,
" How to turn a penny."

    On the other side was a gentleman in black, with his
hands held out in the act of spinning a thaumatrope, the

motto being, " A new trick from Paris."

   After my contest for Finsbury was decided, Mr. Rogers the
banker, and the brother of the poet, who had been one of my
warmest supporters, proposed accompanying me to the hus
tings at the declaration of the poll. He had also invited a
party of some of the most influential electors of his district to
dine with him in the course of the week, in order that they
might meet me, and consider about measures for supporting
me at the next opportunity.

    On a cold drizzling rainy day in November the final state
of the poll was declared. Mr. Rogers took me in his carriage
to the hustings, and caught a cold, which seemed at first un
important. On the d iy of the dinner, when we met at
THE POET AND PHILOSOPHER AT A CROSSING. 191

Mr. Rogers's, who resided at Islington, he was unable to leave
his bed. Miss Rogers, his sister, who lived with him, and his

brother the poet, received us, quite unconscious of the dan
gerous condition of their relative, who died the next day.

Thus commenced a friendship with both of my much-valued

friends which remained unruffled by the slightest wave until
their lamented loss. Miss Rogers removed to a house in the

Regent's Park, in which the paintings by modern artists col

lected by her elder brother, and increased by her own judicious
taste, were arranged. The society at that house comprised
all that was most eminent in literature and in art. The ad

journment after her breakfasts to the delightful verandah
overlooking the Park still clings to my fading memory, and

the . voices of her poet brother, of Jeffrey, and of Sidney

Smith still survive in the vivid impressions of their wisdom

and their wit.

I do not think the genuine kindness of the poet's character
Iwas sufficiently appreciated.
                                occasionally walked home with

him from parties during the first years of our acquaintance.

IIn later years, when his bodily strength began to fail, always

accompanied him, though sometimes not without a little con

test.

  I have frequently walked with him from lu's sister's house,

in the Regent's Park, to his own in St. James's Place, and he

has sometimes insisted upon returning part of the way home

with me.

   On one of those occasions we were crossing a street near

ICavendish Square : a cart coming rapidly round the comer,

almost dragged him over. As soon as we were safe, thapoet
said, very much as a child would, " There, now, that was all

Iyour fault ; you would come with me, and so was nearly

Irun over." However, found less and less resistance to my
192 HOW TO LIVE FOR EVER.

Iaccompanying him, and only regretted that could not be

constantly at his side on those occasions.

  Soon after the publication of the " Economy of Manufac

tures," Mr. Kogers told me that he had met one evening, at a

very fashionable party, a young dandy, with whom he had had

some conversation. The poet had asked him whether he had
read that work. To this his reply was, " Yes : it is a very nice

Ibook --just the kind of book that anybody could have written."
   One day, when was in great favour with the poet, we

were talking about the preservation of health. He told mo

Ihe would teach me how to live for ever ; for which thanked

Ihim in a compliment after his own style, rather than in mine.

   answered, "Only embalm me in your poetry, and it is

done." Mr. Rogers invited me to breakfast with him the

Inext morning, when he would communicate the receipt. We

were alone, and enjoyed a very entertaining breakfast. The

receipt consisted mainly of cold ablutions and the frequent

use of the flesh brush. Mr. Rogers himself used the latter to
a moderate extent regularly, three times every day -- before

he dressed himself, when he dressed for dinner, and before he

got into bed. About six or eight strokes of the flesh-brush

completed each operation. We then adjourned to a shop,

I Iwhere purchased a couple of the proper brushes, which
Iused for several years, and still use occasionally, with, be

lieve, considerable advantage.

  IOnce, at Mr. Rogers's table, was talking with one of his

guests about the speed with which some authors composed,
Iand the slowness of others.
                              then turned to our host, and,

much^to his surprise, inquired how many lines a-day on the

average a poet usually wrote. My friend, when his astonish
ment had a little subsided, very good-naturedly gave us the
result of his own experience. He said that he had never written
KAPID1TY OF COMPOSITION.                     11)3

IImore than four* lines of verse in any one day of his life.IIa

   is,This can easily understand ; for Mr. Rogers' taste was the
            it
Imost fastidious, as well as the most just, ever met with.
                     aIAnother circumstance also, think, contributed to this slow

ness of composition.
   An author may adopt either of two modes of composing.

He may write off the whole of his work roughly, so as to get

upon paper the plan and general outline, without attending at
all to the language . He may afterwards study minutely every
clause of each sentence, and then every word of each clause.

    Or the author may finish and polish each sentence as soon
as it is written.

  IThis latter process was, think, employed by Mr. Rogers,

at least in his poetry.
    He then told us that Southey composed with much greater

rapidity than himself, as well in poetry as in prose. Of the
latter Southey frequently wrote a great many pages before

breakfast.
    Once, at a large dinner party, Mr. Rogers was speaking of

an inconvenience arising from the custom, then commencing,
of having windows formed of one large sheet of plate-glass.

He said that a short time ago he sat at dinner with his back
to one of these single panes of plate-glass : it appeared to
him that the window was wide open, and such was the force

of imagination, that he actually caught cold.

  IIt so happened that was sitting just opposite to the poet.
IHearing this remark, immediately said, " Dear me, how odd

" it Mr. Rogers, that you and should make such very
" different use of the faculty of imagination. When go to

" the house of friend in the country, and unexpectedly re-

   * am not quite certain that the number was four but am absolutely
certain that was either four or six.
                           ;

                                I

                                      0
194 DIFFERENT EFFECTS OF IMAGINATION.

I" main for the night, having no night-cap, should naturally
" catch cold. But by tying a bit of pack-thread tightly round
I I"
I"                                  that   have a night-cap on ;
my head, go   to sleep   imagining  all."  This sally produced
consequently    catch   no cold at
Imuch amusement in all around, who supposed had impro
Ivised it ; but, odd as it may appear, it is a practice
                                                         have

   often resorted to. Mr. Rogers, who knew full well the respect

II^ and regard bad for him, saw at once that was relating a

simple fact, and joined cordially in the merriment it excited.
   In the latter part of Mr. Rogers's life, when, being unable

to walk, he was driven in his carriage round the Regent's

IPark, he frequently called at my door, and, when was able,
I often accompanied him in his drive. On some one of these
I Ioccasions, when was unable to accompany him, put into his
Ihands a parcel of proof-sheets of a work was then writing,
Ithinking they might amuse him during his drive, and that
Imight profit by his criticism. Some years before, had con
Isulted him about a novel had proposed to write solely for

the purpose of making money to assist me in completing the
IAnalytical Engine.
                        breakfasted alone with the poet, who
Ientered fully into the subject.
                                    proposed to give up a
Itwelvemonth to writing the novel, but determined not to
I Icommence it unless saw pretty clearly that could make

about 5,000J. by the sacrifice of my time. The novel was to

have been in three volumes, and there would probably have

been reprints of another work in two volumes. Both of these

works would have had graphic illustrations. The poet gave

me much information on all the subjects connected with the

plan, and amongst other things, observed that when he pub

lished his beautifully illustrated work on Italy, that he had

paid 9,0002. out of his own pocket before he received any

return for that work.
                 CHAPTER XIV.

UECOLLECTIONS OF LAPLACE, BIOT, AND HUMBOLT.

My First Visit to Paris --Anecdote of the fifty-two Eggs-- Mistake about
   Woodhouse-- Fourier --Biot -- Drawings of the Difference Engine -- Strong
  characteristic of Humboldt's mind -- English Clergyman at Paris --
   Great Meeting of Philosophers at Berlin, 1828 -- Introduces the Author
   to Magnus and Derichlet -- Puts the Englishman upon the Dining Com
  mittee -- Conversation in the Linden Walk -- Humboldt's study --Various
   members of the family of Buonaparte -- Lucien and his Children -- Louis,
   the King of Holland -- Joseph, the King of Spain -- His second Daughter
  married to a Son of Louis -- Their taste --Drawings and Lithographs --

   Her Death.

My first visit to Paris was made in company with my friend

John Herschel.   On reaching Abbeville, we wanted breakfast,
                 to order it. Each of us usually required a
Iand undertook
                 I preferred having mine moderately boiled,
couple of eggs.

but my friend required his to be boiled quite hard. Having

Iexplained this matter to the waiter, concluded by instruct

ing him that each of us required two eggs thus cooked,
concluding my order with the words, " pour chacun deux."

   The garcon ran along the passage half way towards the

kitchen, and then called out in his loudest tone --

  II" faut faire bouillir cinquante-deux ceufe pour Messieurs
Iles Anglais." burst into such a fit of uncontrollable laughter

at this absurd misunderstanding of chacun deux, for cinquante-

Ideux, that it was some time before could explain it to

Herschel, and but for his running into the kitchen to counter

                               o2
196 FIFTY-TWO EGGS.

mand the half hundred of eggs would have assuredly beena it,

simmering over the fire.I

   A few days after our arrival in Paris, we dined with

Laplace, where we met a large party, most of whom were

members of the Institute The story had already arrived at

at Paris, having rapidly passed through several editions.

To my great amusement, one of the party told the company

that,      few days before, two young Englishman being at

Abbeville, had ordered fifty-two eggs to be boiled for their

breakfast, and that they ate up every one of them, as well as

a large pie which was put before them.

My next neighbour at dinner asked me             thought
                            I                              it
                                            iIf
probable.     replied, that there was no absurdity a young

Englishman would not occasionally commit.

One morning Herschel and called on Laplace, who spoke

to us of various English works on mathematical subjects.
Amongst others, he mentioned with approbation, " Un ouvrage

de vous deux." We were both quite at a loss to know to what

work he«referred. Herschel and had not written any joint
                            I

work, although we had together translated the work of La-
croix. The volume of the " Memoirs of the Analytical

Society," though really our joiftt production, was not known

to be such, and was also clear that Laplace did not refer
is
to that work. Perceiving that we did not recognise the namea
of the author to whom he referred, Laplace varied the pro
                        it
nunciation by calling him vous deux the first word being pro

nounced as the French word " vous," and the second as the
English word " deuce."
                            it
                                     ;
Upon further explanation, turned out that Laplace meant

to speak of work published by Woodhouse, whose name

in the pronunciation of the French so very like vous

deux.

\-
           FOURIER AND BIOT.  197

Poisson, Fourier, and Biot were amongst my earliest friends

in Paris. Fourier, then Secretary of the Institute, had ac

companied the first Napoleon in his expedition to Egypt.
His profound acquaintance with analysis remains recorded
in his works. His unaffected and genial manner, the vast

extent of his acquirements, and his admirable taste conspi
cuous even in the apartments he inhabited, were most felt by

Ithose who were honoured by his friendship.
   With M. Biot became acquainted in early life ; he was

Ithen surrounded by a happy family. In my occasional visits

to Paris never omitted an opportunity of paying my respects

to him: when deprived of those supports and advanced in

life, he still earnestly occupied himself in carrying out the

investigations of his earlier years.
   His son, M. Biot, a profound oriental scholar, who did me

the honour of translating * The Economy of Manufactures,'

died many years before his father.

  In one of my visits to Paris, at a period when beards had

become fashionable amongst a certain class of my countrymen,

I met Biot. After our first greeting, looking me full in the

face, he said, " My dear friend, you are the best shaved man

in Europe."

  IAt a later period took with me to Paris the complete
Idrawings of Difference Engine No. 2. As soon as had hung

Ithem up round my own apartments to explain them to my
friends  went to the College de France, where M. Biot
Iresided.
           mentioned to him the fact, and said that if it was a

Isubject in which he was interested, and had leisure to look at

these drawings, should have great pleasure in bringing them

I Ito him, and giving him any explanation that he might desire»
  told him, however, that was fully aware how much the

time of every man who really adds to science must be oc
198 BIOT AND THE DIFFERENCE ENGINE.

Icupied, and that made this proposal rather to satisfy my
Iown mind that had not neglected one of my oldest friends

than in the expectation that he had time for the examination

of this new subject.

The answer of my friend was remarkable. After thanking

me in the warmest terms for this mark of friendship, he ex

plained to me that the effect of age upon his own mind was

to render the pursuit of any new inquiry a matter of slow

and painful effort ; but that in following out the studies of

his youth he was not so much impeded. He added that in

those subjects he could still study with satisfaction, and even

make advances in them, assisted in the working out of his

views experimentally by the aid of his younger friends.

  I was much gratified by this unreserved expression of the
Istate of the case, and am sure those younger men who so

kindly assisted the aged philosopher will be glad to know

that their assistance was duly appreciated.

  I IThe last time during M. Biot's life that
Iwent, as usual, to the College de France.  visited Paris

                                            inquired of the

servant who opened the door after the state of M. Biot's
Ihealth, which was admitted to be feeble.
                                            then asked

whether he was well enough to see an old friend. Biot him

self had heard the latter part of this conversation. Coming
into the passage he seized my hand and said " My dear friend,

I Iwould see you even if were dying."

                               Alexander Humboldt.

One of the most remarkable characteristics of Humboldt's
mind was, that he not merely loved and pursued science for
its own sake, but that he derived pleasure from assisting with
his information and advice any other inquirer, however hum
ble, who might need it.
                         HUMBOLDT AT PARIS.                           199

   In one of my visits to Paris, Humboldt was sitting with me

when a friend of mine, an English clergyman, who had just
arrived in Paris, and had only two days to spare for called
                                              a

                                                                 it,
upon me to ask my assistance about getting access to certain

MSS. Putting into Humboldt's hand tract lying on my
table, asked him to excuse me for a few minutes whilst
I                                                                     1

        :

          I

                                      a
gave what advice could to my countryman.                        MS., which

   My friend told me that he wanted to examine
                                              a
                                                    a
he was informed was in certain library in certain street
in Paris that he knew nobody in the city to help him in his

mission.

   Humboldt having heard this statement, came over to us

and said, " If you will introduce me to your friend, can put

him in the way of seeing the MSS. he in search of." He
then explained that the MSS. had been removed to another
library in Paris, and proposed to give my friend note of in
troduction to the librarian, and mentioned other MSS. and
                                              is
                                                            a

                                                       I

other libraries in which he would find information upon the

same subject.
   Many years after, being at Vienna, heard that Humboldt
                                            I

                                                    it
                                                        a
                                                             a
was at Toplitz, a circumstance which induced me to visit that

town. On my arrival found he had left         few days before
                         I

on his return to Berlin. In the course of few days,                   I

followed him to that city, and having arrived in the middle of

the day, took apartments in the Linden Walk, and got all
II
my travelling apparatus in order; then went out to callI
                                         a
                      a
                                           I
on Humboldt. Finding that he had gone to dine with his

brother William, who resided at short distance from Berlin,

  therefore merely left my card.              I
   The next morning at seven o'clock, before was out of bed,
   received very kind note from Humboldt, to ask me to

breakfast with him at nine. In postscript he added, " What
                                         a
200 GREAT MEETING OF GERMAN PHILOSOPHERS.

are the moving molecules of Robert Brown ?" These atoms
of dead matter in rapid motion, when examined under the

microscope, were then exciting great attention amongst phi

Ilosophers.
       met at breakfast several of Humboldt's friends, with
Iwhose names and reputation was well acquainted.
  IHumboldt himself expressed great pleasure that  should

have visited Berlin to attend the great meeting of German

I Iphilosophers, who in a few weeks were going to assemble in
that capital.  assured him that was quite unaware of the

intended meeting, and had directed my steps to Berlin merely
Ito enjoy the pleasure of his society.
                                        soon perceived that

this meeting of philosophers on a very large scale, supported

by the King and by all the science of Germany, might itself

have a powerful influence upon the future progress of human

knowledge. Amongst my companions at the breakfast-table

were Derichlet and Magnus. In the course of the morning

Humboldt mentioned to me that his own duties required his
attendance on the King every day at three o'clock, and

having also in his hands the organization of the great
meeting of philosophers, it would not be in his power to
accompany me as much as he wished in seeing the various
institutions in Berlin. He said that, under these circum

stances, he had asked his two young friends, Derichlet and
Magnus, , to supply his place. During many weeks of my

Iresidence in Berlin, felt the daily advantage of this thought

ful kindness of Humboldt. Accompanied by one or other,

Iand frequently by both, of my young friends, saw every

thing to the best advantage, and derived an amount of in

formation and instruction which under less favourable circum

stances it would have been impossible to have obtained.
IThe next morning,
                    again breakfasted with Humboldt,
THE AUTHOR PUT ON THE DINING COMMITTEE. 201

I IOn the previous day had mentioned that was making a
Icollection of the signs employed in map-making.
                                                  now met

Von Buch and General Kuhl, both of whom were profoundly
Iacquainted with that subject.
                                had searched in vain for any

specimen of a map shaded upon the principle of lines of

equal elevation. Von Buch the next morning gave me an

Iengraving of a small map upon that principle, which was,

believe, at that time the only one existing.

   After breakfast we went into Humboldt's study to look at

something he wished to show us. In turning over his papers,

which, like my own, were lying apparently in great disorder

upon the table, he picked up the cover of a letter on which

was written a number of names in different parallel columns.
" That," he observed incidentally, " is for you." After he had

shown us the object of our visit to his sanctum, he reverted to

the envelop which he put into my hands, explaining that he

had grouped roughly together for my use all the remarkable

men then in Berlin, and several of those who were expected.

   These he had arranged in classes :--Men of science, men of

Iletters, sculptors, painters, and artists generally, instrument-

makers, &c. This list found very convenient for reference.

When the time of the great meeting approached, it became

necessary to prepare the arrangements for the convenience of

the assembled science of Europe. One of the first things, of

course, was the important question, how they were to dine ?

A committee was therefore appointed to make experiment by

dining successively at each of the three or four hotels com

peting for the honour of providing a table d'hote for the

savans.

Humboldt put me on that committee, remarking, that an

Englishman always appreciates a good dinner. The com
mittee performed their agreeable duty in a manner quite
202 CONVERSATION IN THE LINDEN WALK.

Isatisfactory to themselves, and hope, also, to the digestions

of the Naturforschers.

   During the meeting much gaiety was going on at Berlin.

IOne evening previous to our parties, was walking in the

Linden Walk with Humboldt, discussing the singularities of

several of our learned acquaintance. My companion made

Imany acute and very amusing remarks ; some of these were

a little caustic, but not one was ill-natured. had contributed

a very small and much less brilliant share to this conversa

tion, when the clock striking, warned us that the hour for our
Ivisits had arrived.
                        never shall forget the expression of

Iarchness which lightened up Humboldt's countenance when

shaking my hand he said, in English, "My dear friend,

think it may be as well that we should not speak of each
other until we meet again." We then each kept our re

spective engagements, and met again at the most recherche"

of all, a concert at Mendelssohn's.

                       Of the Buonaparte Family.

   From my father's house on the coast, near Teignmouth, we
could, with a telescope, see every ship which entered Torbay.
When the " Bellerophon " anchored, the news was rapidly
spread that Napoleon was on board. On hearing the rumour,

I put a small telescope into my pocket, and, mounting my

Ihorse, rode over to Torbay. A crowd of boats surrounded the

ship, then six miles distant ; but, by the aid of my glass,
saw upon the quarter-deck that extraordinary man, with many

Imembers of whose family subsequently became acquainted.
IOf those who are no more may without impropriety say a

few words.

   My first acquaintance with several branches of the family
LUCIEN BUONAPARTE.  203

of Napoleon Buonaparte arose under the following circum

stances :--

   When his elder brother Lucien, to avoid the necessity of

accepting a kingdom, fled from his imperial brother, and took
refuge in England, his position was either not well under
stood, or, perhaps, was entirely mistaken. Lucien seems to
have been looked upon with suspicion by our Government,
and was placed in the middle of England under a species of

espionage.
   Political parties then ran high, and he did not meet with

those attentions which his varied and highly-cultivated tastes,
especially in the fine arts, entitled him to receive, as a stranger
in a foreign land.

   A family connection of mine, residing in Worcestershire,
was in the habit of visiting Lucien Buonaparte. Thus, in

Imy occasional visits to my brother-in-law's place, became

acquainted with the Prince of Canino. In after -years,

when he occasionally visited London, 1 bad generally the
pleasure of seeing him.

  IIn 1828 met at Bome the eldest son of Lucien, who intro

duced me to his sisters, Lady Dudley Stuart and the Prin
cess Gabrielli.

  IIn the same year became acquainted, at Bologna, with
Ithe Princess d'Ercolano, another daughter of Lucien, whom

afterwards met at Florence, at the palace of her uncle Louis,
the former king of Holland. During a residence of several

months in that city I was a frequent guest at the family table

 of the Compte St. Leu. One of his sons had married the
 Princess Charlotte, the second daughter of the King of Spain,

 a most accomplished, excellent, and charming person. They
 reminded me much of a sensible English couple, in the best
 class of English society. Both had great taste in the fine
204 LOUIS, THE KING OF HOLLAND.

arts. The prince had a workshop at the top of the palace,
in which he had a variety of tools and a lithographic printing
press. Occasionally, in the course of their morning drives,
some picturesque scene, in that beautiful country, would
arrest their attention. Stopping the carriage, they would

select a favourable spot, and the princess would then make a

sketch of it.

At other times they would spend the evening, the prince in

extemporizing an imaginary scene, which he described to his

wife, who, with admirable skill, embodied upon paper the.

tasteful conceptions of her husband. These sketches then

passed up to the workshop of the Prince, were transferred. to

stone, and in a few days lithographic impressions descended
Ito the drawing-room.
                           fortunately possess some of these
Iimpressions, which value highly, not only as the productions

of an amiable and most accomplished lady, but of one who

did not shrink from the severer duties of life, and died in ful

filling them.

After the melancholy loss of her husband, the Princess Char

lotte remained with her father, who resided at one period in
Ithe Regent's Park, where
Ito them. Occasionally     from time to time paid my respects
                           received them at my own house.

One summer letters from Florence reached them, announcing

the dangerous illness of the Comte de St. Leu. The daughter

of Joseph immediately set out alone for Florence to minister

to the comfort of her uncle and father-in-law. On her re

turn from Italy she was attacked by cholera and died in the
south of France.
                       CHAPTER XV.

EXPERIENCE BY WATER.

Shooting Sea-birds -- Walking on the Water -- A Screw being loose --The
   Author nearly drowned -- Adventure in the Thames Tunnel -- Descent in
  a Diving-bell --Plan for Submarine Navigation.

The grounds surrounding my father's house, near Teign-

mouth, extended to the sea. The cliffs, though lofty, admitted

Iat one point of a descent to the beach, of which very fre

quently availed myself for the purpose of bathing. One

I I IChristmas when was about sixteen determined to see if
Icould manage a gun.
                       accordingly took my father's fowling,
Ipiece, and climbing with it down to the beach, began to
I Ilook about for the large sea-birds which thought might

have a chance of hitting.           IAt last, however, was

  I fired several charges in vain.

Ifortunate enough to hit a sea-bird called a diver ; but it fell

at some distance into the sea : had no dog to get it out for

me ; the sea was rough, and no boat was within reach ; also it

was snowing.

  ISo took advantage of a slight recess in the rock to protect

Imy clothes from the snow, undressed, and swam out after my

game, which succeeded in capturing. The next day, having

got the cook to roast  it,I

                                             it

                                       I;
                       tried to eat            but this was by no

means an agreeable task, so for the future left the sea-birds

to the quiet possession of their own dominion.
206 WALKING IN THE WATER.

   Shortly after this, whilst residing on the beautiful banks of

Ithe Dart, constantly indulged in swimming in its waters.

One day an idea struck me, that it was possible, by the aid of

some simple mechanism, to walk upon the water, or at least
to keep in a vertical position, and have head, shoulders, and

arms above water.

My plan was to attach to each foot two boards closely con

nected together by hinges themselves fixed to the sole of the

shoe. My theory was, that in lifting up my leg, as in the act

of walking, the two boards would close up towards each

other ; whilst on pushing down my foot, the water would rush

between the boards, cause them to open out into a flat surface,

and thus offer greater resistance to my sinking in the water.
I took a pair of boots for my experiment, and cutting up
Ia couple of old useless volumes with very thick binding,
I Ifixed the boards by hinges in the way proposed.
                                                        placed

some obstacle between the two flaps of each book to prevent

them from approaching too nearly to each other so as to

impede their opening by the pressure of the water.
I now went down to the river, and thus prepared, walked
Iinto the water.
                     then struck out to swim as usual, and

Ifound little difficulty. Only it seemed necessary to keep the
feet farther apart.  now tried the grand experiment. For
Ia time, by active exertion of my legs, kept my head and
Ishoulders above water and sometimes also my arms.
                                                              was

now floating down the river with the receding tide, sustained

in a vertical position with a very slight exertion of force.

But unfortunately one pair of my hinges got out of order,

I Iand refused to perform its share of the propulsion.        The

result was that became lop-sided.  was therefore obliged
Ito swim, which now did with considerable exertion ; but
another difficulty soon occurred, -- the instrument on the
                DANGER IN THE THAMES TUNNEL.           207

disabled side refused to do its share in propelling me. The

tide was rapidly carrying me down the river ; my own exer

tions alone would have made me revolve in a small circle,

Iconsequently was obliged to swim in a spiral. It was very
Idifficult to calculate the curve was describing upon the

surface of the water, and still more so to know at what point,
I Iif at any, might hope to reach its banks again.
                                                       became

very much fatigued by my efforts, and endeavoured to relieve

myself for a time by resuming the vertical position.

   After floating, or rather struggling for some time, my feet

I Iat last touched the bottom. With some difficulty and much

exertion now gained the bank, on which lay down in a

state of great exhaustion.

This experiment satisfied me of the danger as well as of

Ithe practicability of my plan, and ever after, when in the

water, preferred trusting to my own unassisted powers.

  IAt the close of the year 1827, as anticipated a long
Iabsence from England, paid a visit to the Thames Tunnel,
Iin the construction of which took a great interest. My

Ieldest son, then about twelve years of age, accompanied me
in this visit.  fortunately found the younger Brunel at the

works, who kindly took us with him into the workings.

We stood upon a timber platform, distant about fifty feet

from the shield, which was full of busy workmen, each actively
employed in his own cell. As we were conversing together,

I observed some commotion in the upper cell on the right

hand side. From its higher corner there entered a consider

able stream of liquid mud. Brunel ran directly to the shield,
a line of workmen was instantly formed, and whatever tools

Ior timber was required was immediately conveyed to the spot.
       observed the progress with some anxiety, since but a

short time before a similar occurrence had been the prelude
208 ON THE PROPER TIME FOR RUNNING AWAY.

Ito the inundation of the whole tunnel.  remained watching

the fit time, if necessary, to run away ; but also noticing what

effect the apparent danger had on my son. After a short

time it was clear that the ingress of liquid mud had been

checked, and in a few minutes more Brunel returned to me,
Ihaving this time succeeded in stopping up the breach.
                                                        then

inquired what was really the nature of the danger we had

escaped. Brunel told me that unless himself or Gravatt had

been present, the whole tunnel would in less than ten minutes

Ihave been full of water. The next day embarked for
IHolland, and in about a week after read in Galignani's

newspaper, that the Thames had again broken into the
tunnel ; that five or six of the workmen had been drowned,
and that Brunel himself had escaped with great difficulty by

swimming.

  IIn 1818, during a visit to Plymouth, had an opportunity
Iof going down in a diving-bell : was accompanied by two

friends and the usual director of that machine.

  IThe diving-bell in which descended was a cast-iron vessel

about six feet long by four feet and a half wide, and five feet

eight inches high. In the top of the bell there were twelve

circular apertures, each about six inches in diameter, filled by
thick plate-glass fixed by water-tight cement. Exactly in
the centre there were a number of small holes through which
the air was continually pumped in from above.

   At the ends of the bell are two seats, placed at such a

height, that the top of the head is but a few inches below the
top of the bell; these will conveniently hold two persons
each. Exactly in the middle of the bell, and about six
inches above its lower edge, is placed a narrow board, on
which the feet of the divers rest. On one side, nearly on a
level with the shoulders, is a small shelf, with a ledge to
SENSATIONS IN A DIVING-BELL.                                                           209

contain a few tools, chalk for writing messages, and a ring to

which a small rope is tied. A board is connected with this

rope ; and after writing any orders on the board with a piece
of chalk, on giving it a pull, the superintendent above, round

whose arm the other end of the rope is fastened, will draw it
up to the surface, and, if necessary, return an answer by the

same conveyance.

   In order to enter the bell, it is raised about three or four

feet above the surface of the water ; and the boat, in which

the persons who propose descending are seated, is brought

immediately under it ; the bell is then lowered, so as to
enable them to step upon the foot-board within it ; and

having taken their seats, the boat is removed, and the bell

gradually descends to the water.

On touching the surface, and thus cutting off the com

munication with the external air, a peculiar sensation is per
ceived in the ears ; it is not, however, painful. The attention

is soon directed to another object. The air rushing in

through the valve at the top of the bell overflows, and

escapes with a considerable bubbling noise under the sides.

The motion of the bell proceeds slowly, and almost imper

ceptibly; and, on looking at the glass lenses close to the

head, when the top of the machine just reaches the surface of
the water, it may be perceived, by means -«of the little im

                      by A

                                   it,
                                                   is

                                                                                    ;

                                                                 by
purities which float about in flowing into the recesses con

taining the glasses.  pain now begins to be felt in the ears,

arising from the increased external pressure this may some

times be removed      the act of yawning, or                                           closing the

nostrils and mouth, and attempting to force air through the

ears. As soon as the equilibrium  established the pain

ceases, but recommences almost immediately by the con

tinuance of the descent. On returning, the same sensation of
210 OBSERVATIONS IN DIVING-BELL.

pain is felt in the ears ; but it now arises from the dense air
which had filled them endeavouring, as the pressure is re
moved, to force its way out.

  If the water is clear, and not much disturbed, the light in

the bell is very considerable ; and, even at the depth of twenty
feet, was more than is usual in many sitting-rooms. Within
the distance of eight or ten feet, the stones at the bottom
began to be visible. The pain in the ears still continues to
occur at intervals, until the descent of the bell terminates by
its resting on the ground. The light is sufficient, after passing
through twenty feet of sea water, even for delicate experi
ments ; and a far less quantity is enough for the work which
is usually performed in those situations.

    The temperatures of the hand and of the mouth, under the
tongue, were measured by a thermometer, but they did not
seem to differ from those which had been determined by the
same instrument previous to the descent ; at least, the differ
ence did not amount to one-sixth of a degree of Fahrenheit's
scale. The pulse was more frequent.

   A small magnetic needle did not appear to have entirely

lost its directive power, when placed on the footboard in the
middle of the bell ; but its direction was not the same as that
which it indicated on shore. This was determined by direct
ing, by means of signals, the workmen above to move the
 bell in the direction of one of the co-ordinates ; a stick then
 being pressed against the bottom drew a line parallel to that
 co-ordinate, its direction by compass was ascertained in the
 bell, and the direction of the co-ordinate was determined on
 returning to the surface after leaving the bell.

     Signals are communicated by the workmen in the bell to
 those above, by striking against the side of the bell with a
 hammer. Those most frequently wanted are indicated by
                 SUBMARINE NAVIGATION.                                                             211

the fewest number of blows ; thus a single stroke is to require

more air. The sound is heard very distinctly by those above ;

but, it must be confessed, that to persons unaccustomed to
                                                                      it a
the force with which weighty hammer                 it is  driven against so
a                                                                             it,
                      a                             little alarming.

                            a
                                        is
                                                 a
brittle material as cast iron

   After ascending few inches from the bottom, the air in
the bell became slightly obscured. At the distance of few

feet this appearance increased. Before                     had half reached

the surface, was evident that the whole atmosphere con
             it

                                a
tained was filled with mist or cloud, which at last began to

condense in large drops on the whole of the internal surface.

The explanation of this phenomenon seems to be, that on

the rising of the bell the pressure on the air within being

diminished by weight equal to several feet of water, began
;                                                                     it

      a
to expand and some portion of escaping under the edges
                                   it
                                              it
of the bell, reduced the temperature of that which remained

so much, that was unable to retain, in the state of invisible
             it

vapour, the water which had previously held in solution.

Thus the same principle which constantly produces clouds in

the atmosphere filled the diving-bell with mist.

This first led me to consider the much more extensive

question of submarine navigation.                   was aware that Fulton
                                   a

                                           I
had already descended in diving-vessel, and remained under

water during several hours. He also carried down a copper

sphere containing one cubic foot of space into which he had
forced two hundred atmospheres. With these means he

remained under water and moved about at pleasure during

four hours.

But closed vessel obviously of little use for the most
a
                   '

                            is

                                          I

                                                                                                a
important purposes to which submarine navigation would be

applied in case of war. In the article Diving Bell, published

in 1826, in the Encyclopedia Metropolitana,' gave                                                  do

                                                               p2
212 OPEN SUBMARINE VESSEL.

scription and drawings of an open submarine vessel which

would contain sufficient air for the consumption of four per

Isons during more than two days. A few years ago, under

stand, experiments were made in the Seine at Paris, on a

similar kind of open diving-vessel.  Such a vessel could be

propelled by a screw, and might enter, without being sus

pected, any harbour, and place any amount of explosive

matter under the bottoms of ships at anchor.

Such means of attack would render even iron and iron-clad

ships unsafe when blockading a port. For though chains

were kept constantly passing under their keels, it would yet

be possible to moor explosive magazines at some distance

below, which would effectually destroy them.
                      CHAPTEK XVI.

                      EXPERIENCE BY FIRE.

Baked in an Oven-- A Living Volcano --Vesuvius in action -- Carried up the
   Cone of Ashes in a Chair -- View of the Crater in a Dark Night -- Sun
   rise -- Descent by Ropes and Rolling into the great Crater--Watched the
   small Crater in active eruption at intervals --Measured a Base of 330 feet--
   Depth of great Crater 570 feet--Descent into small Crater-- A Lake of
   red-hot Boiling Lava -- Regained the great Crater with the sacrifice of
   my Boots--Lunched on Biscuits and Irish Whisky -- Visit to the Hot
   Springs of Ischia --Towns destroyed by Earthquake -- Coronets of Smoke
   projected by Vesuvius --Artificial Mode of producing them --Fire-damp
   visited in Welsh Coal-mine in company with Professor Moll.

                              Baked in an Oven.

ICalling one morning upon Chantrey, met Captain Kater

and the late Sir Thomas Lawrence, the President of the Koyal

Academy. Chantrey was engaged at that period in casting a

large bronze statue. An oven of considerable size had been
Ibuilt for the purpose of drying the moulds.
                                               made several

                 it,
inquiries about and Chantrey kindly offered to let me pay

it     visit, and thus ascertain by my own feelings the effects

    a

of high temperature on the human body.

I      willingly accepted the proposal, and Captain Kater
offered to accompany me. Sir Thomas Lawrence, who was

suffering from indisposition, did not think prudent to joinit
our party. In fact, he died on the second or third day after

our experiment.

The iron folding-doors of the small room or oven were
214 VESUVIUS-- CORONETS OF SMOKE.

opened. Captain Kater and myself entered, and they were
then closed upon us. The further corner of the room, which
was paved with squared stones, was visibly of a dull-red heat.

IThe thermometer marked, if recollect rightly, 265°. The
Ipulse was quickened, and ought to have counted but did

not count the number of inspirations per minute. Perspiration
commenced immediately and was very copious. We re

Imained, believe, about five or six minutes without very great
Idiscomfort, and experienced no subsequent inconvenience

from the result of the experiment.

                           A Living Volcano.

I have never been so fortunate as to be conscious of having

experienced the least shock of an earthquake, although,

Iwhen a town had been destroyed in Ischia hastened on from

Home in the hope of getting a slight shake. My passion

Iwas disappointed, so consoled myself by a flirtation with a

volcano.

The situation of my apartments during my residence at

Naples enabled me constantly to see the cone of Vesuvius,

and the continual projections of matter from its crater.

Amongst these were occasionally certain globes of air, or of

some gas, which, being shot upwards to a great height above

the cone, spread out into huge coronets of smoke, having a

singular motion amongst their particles.

A similar phenomenon sometimes occurs on a small scale
Iduring the firing of heavy ordnance.
                                          have frequently
Iseen such at Plymouth and elsewhere ; but was not satisfied
Iabout the cause of this phenomenon.
                                          was told that it oc

curred more frequently if the muzzle of the gun were rubbed

with grease ; but this did not always succeed.

  ISoon after my return to London made a kind of drum, by
ARTIFICIAL IMITATION.                                  215

stretching wet parchment over a large tin funnel. On direct
ing the point of the funnel at a candle placed a few feet dis

tant, and giving a smart blow upon the parchment, it is

observed that the candle is immediately extinguished.

  This arises from what is called an air shot. In fact, the

air in the tubular part is projected bodily forward, and so

blows out the candle. The statements about persons being

killed by cannon balls passing close to but not touching

them, if true, are probably the results of air shots.

  Wishing to trace the motions of such air shots, I added

two small tubes towards the large end of the tin funnel, in

Iorder that might fill it with smoke, and thus trace more dis

tinctly the progress of the ball of air.
   To my great delight the first blow produced a beautiful

coronet of smoke, exactly resembling, on a small scale, the

explosions from cannon or the still more attractive ones from

Vesuvius.

  If phosphoretted hydrogen or any other gas, which takes

fire in air, were thus projected upwards, a very singular kind *

of fire- work would be produced.

It is possible in dark nights or in fogs that by such means

signals might be made to communicate news or to warn

vessels of danger.                                     It had
   Vesuvius was then in a state of moderate activity.

a huge cone of ashes on its summit, surrounding an extensive

crater of great depth. In one corner of this was a smaller

crater, quite on a diminutive scale, which from time to time

ejected red-hot fragments of lava occasionally to the height of
from a thousand to fifteen hundred feet above the summit of

the mountain.

  I had taken apartments in the Chiaja, just opposite the vol
Icano, in order that might watch it with a telescope. In fact,
216 ASCENT TO CRATER BY NIGHT.

I Ias lay in my bed had an excellent view of the mountain.

IMy next step was to consult with Salvatori, the most expe

rienced of the guides, from whom had purchased a good

many minerals, as to the possibility of getting a peep down

the volcano's throat.

   Salvatori undertook to report to me from time to time

Ithe state of the mountain, round the base of which made

frequent excursions. After about a fortnight, the explosions

were more regular and uniform, and Salvatori assured me

that all the usual known indications led him to think that it
                                   IAs wished to see as
was a lit time for my expedition.
Imuch as possible, made arrangements to economize my

strength by using horses or mules to carry me wherever they

could go. Where they could not carry me, as for instance,

Iup the steep slope of the cone of ashes, employed men to

convey me in a chair.

  IBy these means, saw in the afternoon and evening of one

day a good deal of the upper part of the mountain, then took

a few hours' repose in a hut, and reached the summit of the

«cone long before sunrise.

   It was still almost dark : we stood upon the irregular edge

of a vast gulf spread out below at the depth of about five

hundred feet. The plain at the bottom would have been

invisible but for an irregular network of bright-red cracks

spread over the whole of its surface. Now and then the

silence was broken by a rush upwards of a flight of red-hot

scoria from the diminutive crater within the large one.

These missiles, however, although projected high above the

summit of the cone, never extended themselves much beyond

the small cavity from which they issued.

Those who have seen the blood-vessels of their own eye by

the aid of artificial light, will have seen on a small scale a
SUNRISE FROM THE SUMMIT.                     217

perfect resemblance of the plain which at that time formed

the bottom of the great crater of Vesuvius.

As the morning advanced the light increased, and some

time before sunrise we had completed the tour of the top of

the great crater. Then followed that glorious sight--the

Isun when seen rising from the top of some lofty mountain.
       now began to speculate upon the means of getting a

nearer view of the little miniature volcano in action at one

corner of the gulf beneath us. We had brought ropes with

Ius, and had observed, in our tour round the crater, every

dike of congealed lava by which the massive cone was split.

IThese presented buttresses with frequent ledges or huge steps

by which hoped, with the aid of ropes, to descend into the

Tartarus below.

  IHaving consulted with our chief guide Salvatori, found

that he was unwilling to accompany us, and proposed remain

ing with the other guides on the upper edge of the crater.

IUpon the whole, was not discontented with the arrangement,

because it left a responsible person to keep the other guides

in order, and also sufficient force to lift us up bodily by the

ropes if that should become necessary.

The abruptness of the rocky buttresses compelled us lo use

ropes, but the attempt to traverse the steep inclines of light

ashes and of fine sand would have been more dangerous from

the risk of being engulfed in them.

IHaving well examined the several disadvantages of these
rough-hewn irregular Titanic stairs,  selected one which

seemed the most promising for facilitating our descent into

the crater. I- was encumbered with one of Troughton's

heavy barometers, strapped to my. back, looking much like
Cupid's quiver, though probably rather heavier. In my pocket

I had an excellent box sextant, and in a rough kind of basket
218 DESCENT INTO THE CKATEK.

two or three thermometers, a measuring tape, and a glass
bottle enclosed in a leather case, commonly called a pocket-

pistol, accompanied by a, few biscuits.

IWe began our descent by the aid of two ropes, each sup
ported above by two guides.  proceeded, trusting to my
Irope to step wherever could, and then cautiously holding on

by the rope to spring down to the next ledge. In this manner

we descended until we arrived at the last projecting ledge of

the dike. Nothing then remained for us but to slide down a

steep and lengthened incline of fine sand. Fortunately, the

sand itself was not very deep, and was supported by some solid
Imaterial beneath it.
                       soon found that it was impossible to
Istand, so sat down upon this moving mass, which evidently

intended to accompany us in our journey. At first, to my
Igreat dismay, was relieved from the care of my barometer,
Iof which the runaway sand immediately took charge.
                                                     thou

found myself getting deeper and deeper in the sand, and still

accelerating my downward velocity.                          I
   Gravity had at last done its work and became powerless.

soon dug myself out of my sandy couch, and rushed to my

faithful barometer lying at some distance from me with its
head just unburied. Fortunately, it was uninjured. My
companion, with more skill or good fortune, or with less in
cumbrances, had safely alighted on the burning plain we now

stood upon.

   The area of this plain, for it was perfectly flat, was in

shape somewhat elliptical. The surface consisted of a black
scoriacious rock, reticulated with ditches from one to three
feet wide, intersecting each other in every direction. From

some of these, fumes not of the most agreeable odour were

issuing. All those above two feet deep showed that at that
depth below us everything was of a dull-red heat. It was
         MEASUREMENT OF A BASE.                         219

these ditches with red-hot bottoms which, in the darkness of

Ithe night, had presented the singular spectacle described

as having witnessed on the evening before.

   At one extremity of this oval plain there was a small cone,

from which the eruptions before described appeared to issue.

  IMy first step, after examining the few instruments had

brought with me, was to select a spot upon which to measure
a base for ascertaining the depth of the crater from its upper

edge.

  IHaving decided upon my base line, took with my sextant

the angle of elevation of the rim of the crater above a remark

able spot on a level with my eye. Then fixing my walking-

Istick into a little crack in the scoria, proceeded to measure
Iwith a tape a base line of 340 feet. Arrived at this point,

again took the angle of elevation of the same part of the rim
from the same remarkable spot on a level with the eye.

IThen, by way of verification, remeasured my base line and

found it only differed from the former measure by somewhat
less than one foot. But my walking-stick, which had not

penetrated the crack more than a few inches, was actually in

flames.

Having noted down these facts, including the state of the
Ithermometer and barometer, in my pocket-book, took first
Ia survey and then a tour about my fiery domain.
                                                        after

wards found, from the result of this measurement, that our

base line was 570 feet below one of the lowest points of the

edge of the crater. Having collected a few mineral speci

Imens, applied myself to observe and register the eruptions

of the little embryo volcano at the further extremity of the

elliptical plain.                                       I pro
   These periodical eruptions interested me very much.

ceeded to observe and register them, and found they occurred
220 DESCENT INTO SMALL ACTIVE CRATER.

Iat tolerably regular intervals. At first,  performed this

operation at a respectful distance and out of the reach of the

Iprojected red-hot scoria. But as acquired confidence in
Itheir general regularity, approached from time to time

more nearly to the little cone of scoria produced by its own

eruptions.
I now perceived an opening in this little cone close to the
Iperpendicular rock of the interior of the great crater.
                                                          was

very anxious to see real fluid lava ; so immediately after an
Ieruption,
            rushed to the opening and thus got within the
Isubsidiary crater. But my curiosity was not gratified, for

observed, about forty or fifty feet below me, a huge project

ing rock, which being somewhat in advance, effectively pre

Ivented me from seeing the lava lake, if any such existed.

then retreated to a respectful distance from this infant volcano

to wait for the next explosion.

  I continued to note the intervals of time between these

jets of red-hot matter, and found that from ten to fifteen

minutes was the range of the intervals of repose. Having

Ionce more reconnoitred the descent into the little volcano,

seized the opportunity of the termination of one of the most

considerable of its eruptions to run towards the gap and cau

tiously to pick my way down to the rock which hid from me,
I Ias supposed, the liquid lava.
                                  was armed with two phials,

one of common smelling salts, and the other containing a

Isolution of ammonia. On reaching the rock, found it pro

jected over a lake which was really filled by liquid fiery lava.

I immediately laid myself down, and looking over its edge,

Isaw, with great delight, lava actually in a state of fusion.
   Presently observed a small bubble swelling up on the

surface of the fluid lava: it became gradually larger and
Ilarger, but did not burst.
                             had some vague suspicion that
          WAVES IN LAKE OF FLUID LAVA.               221

this indicated a coming eruption ; but on looking at my watch,
I was assured that only one minute had elapsed since the ter
Imination of the last.
                        therefore watched its progress ; after a

I Itime the bubble slowly subsided without breaking.
      now found the heat of the rock on which was reposing,

and the radiation from the fluid lava, almost insupportable,

whilst the sulphurous effluvium painfully affected my lungs.

IOn looking around, fortunately observed a spot a few feet
Iabove me, from which could, in a standing position, get a

better view of the lake, and perhaps suffer less inconvenience

Ifrom its vapours. Having reached this spot, continued to

observe the slow formation and absorption of these vesicles of

lava. One of them soon appeared. Another soon followed

at a different part of the fiery lake, but, like its predecessor,
it disappeared as quietly.

   Another swelling now arose about half way distant from

the centre of the cauldron, which enlarged much beyond

its predecessors in point of size. It attained a diameter of

about three feet, and then burst, but not with any explo
sion. The waves it propagated in the fiery fluid passed on to

the sides, and were thence reflected back just as would have

happened in a lake of water of the same dimensions.

This phenomenon reappeared several times, some of the

bubbles being considerably larger in size, and making propor

tionally greater disturbance in the liquid of this miniature
Icrater.
          would gladly have remained a longer time, but the

excessive heat, the noxious vapours, and the warning of my
Ichronometer forbade it.
                          climbed back through the gap by
I Iwhich had descended, and rushed as fast as could to a safe

distance from the coming eruption.

  I Iwas much exhausted by the heat, although suffered

still greater inconvenience from the vapours. From my
222 BISCUITS AND WHISKY.

observations of the eruptions before my descent into this little

I Icrater, had estimated that might safely allow myself six
Iminutes, but not more than eight, if descended into the

crater immediately after an eruption.

  If Imy memory does not fail me, passed about six minutes

in examining
a
                        it,

                   I
                                             II
                   and the next explosion occurred ten minutes

after the former one. On my return to Naples found that

pair of thick boots had worn on this expedition were

entirely destroyed by the heat, and fell to pieces in my

attempt to take them off.

On my return from the pit of burning fire, sat down

with my companion to refresh myself with a few biscuits

contained in our basket. Cold water would have been the

most refreshing fluid we could have desired, but we had none,
and my impatient friend cried out, " wish had glass of
                                         it I I
                                               aI

                                                                     a
                                                                                     a
whisky  !"    It immediately occurred to me to feel in my own
             a
basket for certain glass bottle preserved in tight leather

case, which fortunately being found,     presented to my

astonished friend, with the remark that contained half

pint of the finest Irish whisky. This piece of good luck for

my fellow-traveller arose not from my love but from my

dislike of whisky. Shortly before my Italian tour had
                            I
                                                        it
                                                                  by
                                                     I
been travelling in the north of Ireland, and having ex

hausted my brandy, was unable to replace         anything

but whisky, drink which can only tolerate under very
                a

exceptional circumstances.

                                         Hot Springs.

   During my residence at Naples in 1828, the government
appointed a commission of members of the Royal Academy of
Naples to visit Ischia and make report upon the hot springs
in that island. Being foreign member of the Academy, they
                   a
                                      a
                  HOT SPRINGS OF ISCHIA.  223

did me the honour of placing my name upon that commission.
The weather was very favourable, the party was most agree

Iable, and during three or four days enjoyed the society of

my colleagues, the delightful scenery, and the highly inte
resting natural phenomena of that singular island.

    None of the hot springs were deep : in several we made
excavations which, in all cases, gave increased heat to the

Iwater. In one or two, believe if we had excavated to a

small depth or bored a few feet, we might have met with

boiling water.

  I took the opportunity of this visit to view the devastations

made by the recent earthquake in the small town which had

been destroyed.
    The greater part of the town consisted of narrow streets

formed by small houses built of squared stone. In some of

these streets the houses on one side were thrown down, whilst

those a few feet distant, on the opposite side, although severely
damaged, had their walls left standing.

    The landlord of the hotel at which we took up our quarters
assured me the effects of the recent earthquake were entirely
confined to a small portion of the island which he pointed
out from the front of his hotel, and added that it was scarcely
 felt in other parts.

                                      Earthquakes.

I IAt the commencement of this chapter mentioned that

had never been consciously sensible of the occurrence of an
             I think it may perhaps be useful to state that
earthquake.
Ion a recent occasion really perceived the effects of an
Iearthquake, although at the time
                                   assigned them to a

different cause.

On the 6th of last October, about half-past three, a.m.,
224 UNCONSCIOUS WITNESS OF EARTHQUAKE.

most of the inhabitants of London who were awake at that
Ihour perceived several shocks of an earthquake.
                                                  also was

awake, although not conscious of the shocks of an earthquake.

  I IAs soon as read of the event in the morning papers, was

forcibly struck by its coincidence with my own observations,

Ialthough had attributed to them an entirely different cause.
IIn order to explain this, it is necessary to premise that had

on a former occasion instituted some experiments for the

purpose of ascertaining how far off the passing of a cart or

carriage would affect the steadiness of a star observed by

Ireflection. Amongst other methods, had fixed a looking-

glass of about 12 by 16 inches, by a pair of hinges, to

the front wall of my bedroom. It was usually so placed that,

I Ias lay in bed, at the distance of about 10 or 12 feet, could

see by reflection a small gas-light burner, which was placed

on my left hand.

By this arrangement any tremors propagated through the

earth from passing carriages would be communicated to the

looking-glass by means of the front wall of the house, which

rose about 40 feet from the surface. The image of the small

gas-burner reflected in the looking-glass would be pro

portionally disturbed. In this state of things, at about half-

Ipast three o'clock of the morning in question, observed the

Ireflected image of the gas-light move downwards and upwards

two or three times. then listened attentively, expecting to

hear the sound of a distant carriage or cart. Hearing nothing

Iof the kind, concluded that the earth wave had travelled

beyond the limit of the sound wave, arising from the carriage

which produced it. Presently the image of the gaslight again

vibrated up and down, and then suddenly fell about four or
five inches lower down in the glass, where it remained fixed

for a time. Still thinking the observation of no consequence,
VISIT IN SEARCH OF FIRE-DAMP.                            225

I shut my eyes, and after perhaps another minute, again saw

the image in its lower position. It then rose to its former

position, vibrated, and shortly again descended : it remained

down for some time and then resumed its first position.

Fire Damp.

An opportunity presented itself several years after my

examination of Vesuvius of witnessing another form under

which fire occasionally exerts its formidable power.
I was visiting a friend* at Merthyr Tydfil, who pos
                                   I inquired of my host
sessed very extensive coal-mines.

whether any fire-damp existed in them. On receiving an

Iaffirmative answer, expressed a wish to become personally

acquainted with the miner's invisible but most dangerous

enemy. Arrangements were therefore made for my visit to
the subterranean world on the following day. Professor Moll
of Utrecht, who was also a guest, expressed a wish to ac

company me.
   The entrance to the mine is situated in the side of a moun

tain. Its chief manager conducted our expedition to visit the
' fire-king.'

   We found a coal-waggon drawn by a horse, and filled

with clean straw, standing on the railway which led into the

workings.
   The manager, Professor Moll, and myself, together with

two or three assistants, with candles, lanterns, and Davy-
lamps, got into this vehicle, which immediately entered the
adit of the mine. We advanced at a good pace, passing at
intervals doors which opened on our approach and then in
stantly closed. Each door had an attendant boy, whose duty

was confined to the regulation of his own door.

* The Lite Sir John J. Guest, Bart.

                                                      Q
226 DRIVE INTO THE MOUNTAIN.

   Many were the doors we passed before we arrived at the
termination of the tram-road. After travelling about a mile

and a half, our carriage stopped and we alighted. We now

proceeded on foot, each carrying his own candle, until we
reached a kind of chamber where one of our attendants was

left with the candles.

We, each holding a Davy-lamp in our hand, advanced to

wards a small opening in the side of this chamber, which was

so low that we were compelled to crawl, one after another, on

our hands and knees. A powerful current of air rushed

through this small passage. On reaching the end of weby
                                                 by
found ourselves in a much larger chamber from which the
                                                     I it,
coal had been excavated. At a little distance opposite to the

path  bywhich we entered was continuation of the same
                   a    a
                                      a
narrow hole which had led us to the waste in which we now

stood. From this opening issued the powerful stream of air

which seemed to pass in direct course from one opening to

the other.

On our right hand the large chamber we had entered appeared

to spread to          very considerable distance, its termination

being lost in darkness. The floor was covered with fragments

which had fallen from the roof; so that, besides the risk

from explosion, there was also minor one arising from the
                        a
possible fall of some huge mass of slate from the roof of the
                          it
excavation beneath which we stood an accident which had:

already witnessed in the waste of another coal-mine. As we

advanced over this flaky flooring was evident that we were

making considerable ascent. We, in fact, now occupied a
      a

vast cavern, which had been originally formed  the extrac

tion of the coal, and then partially filled up the falling in

from time to time of portions of the slaty roof.
   As we advanced cautiously with our Davy-lamps beyond
TEMPLE OF THE FIRE-KING.  227

the current of air which had hitherto accompanied us, it was
evident that a change had taken place in their light : for the
flames became much enlarged. Professor Moll and myself
mounted a huge heap of these fragments, and thus came into
contact with air highly charged with carburetted hydrogen.
At this point there was a very sensible difference in the atmo
sphere, even by a change of three feet in the elevation of

the lamp.

  IHolding up the lamp at the level of my head, could not

see the wick of the lamp, but a general flame seemed to fill
the inside of its wire-covering. On lowering it to the height
of my knee, the wick resumed its large nebulous appearance.

   My companion, Professor Moll, was very much delighted
with this experiment. He told me he had often at his
lectures explained these effects to his pupils, but that this
was the first exhibition of them he had ever witnessed in their

natural home.

   Although well acquainted with the miniature explosions

Iof the experimentalist, found it very difficult to realize in

my own mind the effects which might result from an explo
sion under the circumstances in which we were then placed.

I inquired of the manager, who stood by my side, what would

probably be the effect, if an explosion were to take place ?

IPointing to the vast heap of shale from which had just

descended, he said the whole of that would be blown through
the narrow channel by which we entered, and every door we
had passed through would be blown down.

   We now retraced our steps, and crawling back through the
narrow passage, rejoined our carriage, and were rapidly con
veyed to the light of day.
                             CHAPTER XVII.

          EXPERIENCE AMONGST WORKMEN.

Visit to  Bradford -- Clubs  -- Co-operative   Shops --The  Author of the " Eco
    nomy  of Manufactures    " welcomed by                  --Visit to the Temple
                                              the Workmen

of Eolus --The Philosopher moralises -- Commiserates the unsuccessful
Statesman--Points to the Poet a Theme for his Verse -- Immortalises

both.

During one of my visits to Leeds, combinations and trades-

unions were very prevalent. A medical friend of mine, who

was going to Bradford on a professional visit, very kindly

offered to take me over in his carriage and bring me back

again in the evening. He had in that town a friend engaged

in the manufactories of the place, to whom he proposed to in

troduce me, and who would willingly give me every assistance.

Unfortunately, on our arrival we found that this gentleman

was absent on a tour.
IMy medical friend was much vexed; but assured him
Ithat was never at a loss in a manufacturing town, and we
Iagreed to meet at our hotel for dinner.
                                                            then went into
Ithe town to pick up what information might be able to

meet with.

  I IPassing a small manufactory, think it was of door-mats,

inquired whether a stranger might be permitted to see it. The

Ianswer being in the affirmative, one of the men accompanied

me round the works. Of course asked him many questions

which he answered as far as he could ; but several of them
         INTELLIGENT OPERATIVE.                                                                                         229

puzzled him, and he very good-humouredly tried to supply

Ithe information wanted by asking several of his fellow-
Iworkmen. One question about which was anxious to be in

formed, puzzled them all. At last one of the men to whom
he applied said, " Why don't you go and ask Sam Brown ?"

My guide immediately went in search of his learned friend,

who gave me full information on the subjects of my inquiry.

   Much pleased by the intelligence and acuteness of this

man, I thought it possible he might have read the " Economy

Iof Manufactures." On mentioning that work, found he was

I

          I

                   I
                                        it,
                                                                                                               ;
well acquainted with             and he asked my opinion of its

merits.  told him that, having myself written the book,

was not an impartial judge. On hearing that was
                                                                                                                        I
its author, his delight was unbounded he held out his
brawny hand, which cordially grasped. The most gratify                                                                       it
ing remark to me, however, amongst the many things in to
which he referred with approbation, was the expression he

applied to as whole. " Sir," said my new friend, " that
book made me think." To make man think for himself

    doing him far higher service than giving him much in
I is                             Ia

               it

               Ia
struction.                                                                                                        if a

      now told my new friend that had studied little the
effects of combinations, and also the results of co-operative
shops, and that was very anxious to add to my stock of
information upon both subjects, but particularly on the latter.
Knowing that there existed co-operative shop in Bradford,

   asked whether would be possible to see and make some
inquiries as to its state and prospects. He said he could
get permission for half an hour's absence he would accompany
me to and give me whatever information wished as to its
I                                a

                             it                       it

         it,

                                         I

operation.
   Mr. Brown accordingly accompanied me to the co-opera
230 CO-OPERATIVE SHOPS.

tive shop, where the information required was most readily

given.
   As we were returning, my companion exclaimed, " Oh, how

lucky ! there is  , the secretary of all our clubs. He is

the man to tell you all about them." We accordingly crossed

over to the other side: the secretary, as soon as he heard

my name, held out his hand and greeted me with a hearty

grasp.

   Having told him the objects of my inquiry, he expressed
great anxiety to give me the fullest information. He pro
posed to take me with him in the course of the evening to all
the clubs in Bradford, in each of which he promised me that

I should receive a most cordial welcome.

   He offered to show me all their rules, with the exception

of certain ones which he assured me had no connection what

Iever with the objects of my inquiries, and which the laws of
the respective clubs required to be kept secret.  think it
Iright to mention this fact ; but am bound also to add that
I have a strong conviction of the truth and sincerity of my
I Iinformant.
believe that the one or two rules which under

stood could not be communicated to a stranger, were merely
secret modes of recognition amongst the members of the dif
ferent societies by which fellow-members of the same societies

might recognize each other in distant places.            It
   However, my limited time was now drawing to a close.

was impossible to remain at Bradford that night, and my

previous arrangements called me in two days to a distant part
Iof the country.
                  parted with regret from these friendly

workmen, and joining my companion at the hotel, after a

hasty dinner we were soon on our way back to Leeds.
   Our conversation turned upon the large ironworks we

should pass on our return, which indeed were clearly indi
                     A REVERIE.                           231

cated by the columns of fire in front of us --tall chimneys

illumining the darkness of the night.

  I was told by my friend that in one of the ironworks which

we should pass, there was a large tunnel through a rock which
had originally been intended for a canal : but that it was now

used as an air-chamber, to equalize the supply of the blast
furnaces. Also that an engine of a hundred horse-power
continually blew air into this stony chamber.

  I inquired whether it would be possible to get admission

into this Temple of iEolus. As my friend, fortunately for me,
was acquainted with the proprietors, this was not difficult.
Our carriage drove up to the manager's house, and my wish

was immediately gratified.

A lantern was provided, a small iron door at the end of
Ithe cavern was opened, and armed like Diogenes, entered
Iupon my search after truth.
                              soon ascertained that there

was very little current, except close to the tuyeres which sup

plied the several furnaces, and also at the aperture through
which tons of air were driven without cessation by the un

tiring fiery horse.
I tried to think seriously; and reflecting on Shadrach,
IMeshach, and Abed-nego, speculated whether their furnace
Imight have been hotter than the one before me. was within
Ia foot or two of a white heat, but had no thermometer with
Ime, and if had had one, its graduations might not have
Ibeen upon the same scale as theirs--so
                                         gave up the

speculation.                                              It
   The intensity of that fire was peculiarly impressive.

recalled the past, disturbed the present, and suggested the

future. The contemplation of the fiery abyss, which had

recalled the history of those ancient Hebrews, naturally

turned my attention to the wonderful powers of endurance
232 EFFECT OF A DRAFT ON CONTEMPLATION.

manifested by one of their modern representatives. Candour

obliges me to admit that my speculations on the future were
Inot entirely devoid of anxiety, though
                                         trust they were
I Iorthodox, for whilst admired the humanity of Origen, was

shocked by the heresy of Maurice.        I sympathised

  I now began to moralize.

   Blown upon by a hundred horse-power,

Iwith Disraeli refrigerated by his friends. Turning from that

painful contemplation, was calmed by the freshness of the

breeze. The action of the pumps, the cooZness of the place
and of the time, for it was evening, recalled to my recollection

IM M ; so hoped, for the sake of instruc

tion, that he would in his own adamantine verses snatch if

possible from oblivion the moral anatomy of that unsuccessful

statesman. Yet, lest even the poet himself should be for
Igotten,
          resolved to give each of them his last chance of

celebrity preserved in the modest amber of my own simple

prose.
IEmerging from my reverie,
                            made the preconcerted

signal ; the iron door was opened, and we were again on our

road to Leeds.
CHAPTER XVIII.

PICKING LOCKS AND DECIPHERING.

Interview with Vidocq --Remarkable Power of altering his Height --A
   Bungler in picking Locks -- Mr. Hobb's Lock and the Duke of Wel
   lington --Strong belief that certain Ciphers are inscrutable -- Davies
   Gilbert's Cipher --The Author's Cipher both deciphered -- Classified Dic
   tionaries of the English Language -- Anagrams -- Squaring Words --
   Bishop not easily squared -- Lesser Dignitaries easier to work upon.

These two subjects are in truth much more nearly allied

than might appear upon a superficial view of them. They
are in fact closely connected with each other as small

branches of the same vast subject of combinations.

Several years ago, the celebrated thief-taker, Vidocq, paid
Ia short visit to London.
                           had an interview of some duration

with this celebrity, who obligingly conveyed to me much

information, which, though highly interesting, was not of a

nature to become personally useful to me.

   He possessed a very remarkable power, which he was so good

as to exhibit to me. It consisted in altering his height to about

an inch and a half less than his ordinary height. He threw

over his shoulders a cloak, in which he walked round the room.

IIt did not touch the floor in any part, and was, should say,

about an inch and a half above it. He then altered Ids

height and took the same walk. The cloak then touched the

floor and lay upon it in some part or other during the whole
234 PICKING LOCKS, VIDOCQ, HOBBS.

walk. He then stood still and altered his height alternately,

several times to about the same amount.

  I inquired whether the altered height, if sustained for

several hours, produced fatigue. He replied that it did not,

and that he had often used it during a whole day without any

additional fatigue. He remarked that he had found this gift
Ivery useful as a disguise.
                             asked whether any medical man

had examined the question ; but it did not appear that any

Isatisfactory explanation had been arrived at.

     now entered upon a favourite subject of my own --the art
Iof picking locks--but, to my great disappointment,
Ihim not at all strong upon that question.           found

                                                had myself

bestowed some attention uponis         and had written paper,
                                  it,           a
On the Art of Opening all Locks,' at the conclusion of which
I I I'                                               I
         ithad proposed a plan of partially defeating my own method.
                   a
My paper on that subject not yet published.

Several years after Vidocq's appearance in London, the

Exhibition of 1851 occurred. On one of my earliest visits,

observed very curious lock of large dimensions with its inter

nal mechanism fully exposed to view.            found, on inquiry,
                      I

                                             a

                                       I
that belonged to the American department. Having dis

covered the exhibitor, asked for an explanation of the lock.

listened with great interest to very profound disquisition

upon locks and the means of picking them, conveyed to me

with the most unaffected simplicity.

felt that the maker of that lock surpassed me in know

ledge of the subject almost as much as had thought ex
                      I
                                              it
                                       I
                                                                     a
                                                        I
celled Vidocq. Having mentioned        to the late Duke of

Wellington, he proposed that we should pay visit to the

lock the next time accompanied him to the Exhibition.

We did so a few days after, when the Duke was equally

pleased with the lock and its inventor. Mr. Hobbs, the
           BELIEF IN AN INSCRUTABLE CIPHER.                           · 235

Igentleman of whom am speaking, and whose locks have now

become so celebrated, was good enough to explain to me from

time to time many difficult questions in the science of con

structing and of picking locks. He informed me that he

had devised a system for defeating all these methods of pick
Iing locks, for which he proposed taking out a patent.
                                                                      was,
Ihowever, much gratified when found that it was precisely
Ithe plan had previously described in my own unpublished

pamphlet.

                                  Deciphering.

   DecipheringII       in my opinion, one of the most fascinating
                 I is,

                             it
of arts, and fear have wasted upon more time than
                                                it                    it

                                                     iIf
                                                          I
deserves.              practised  in its simplest form when was at

school. The bigger boys made ciphers, but          got hold of

   few words, usually found out the key. The consequence
a          I

of this ingenuity was occasionally painful the owners of the
                                                :

detected ciphers sometimes thrashed me, though the fault

really lay in their own stupidity.

   There               kind of maxim amongst the craft of decipherers
I
              is
                    a
(similar to one amongst the locksmiths), that every cipher can

be deciphered.

   am myself inclined to think that deciphering                       an affair
                                    ;

                                                                  is
of time, ingenuity, and patience and that very few ciphers
are worth the trouble of unravelling them.

   One of the most singular characteristics of the art of deci

pheringa       the strong conviction possessed by every person,
           is
even moderately acquainted with   it
                                         it,

                                                             is

                                                  II
                                                                               is
                                                that he able to con

struct cipher which nobody else can decipher.                         have also

observed that the cleverer the person, the more intimate

his conviction. In my earliest study of the subject shared

in this belief, and maintained for many years
236 · THE PRESIDENT OF BOYAL SOCIETY'S CIPHER

IIn a conversation on that subject which had with the late

Mr. Davies Gilbert, President of the Koyal Society, each

maintained that he possessed a cipher which was absolutely
inscrutable. On comparison, it appeared that we had both

imagined the same law, and we were thus confirmed in our

conviction of the security of our cipher.
   Many years after, the late Dr. Fitton, having asked my

Iopinion of the possibility of making an inscrutable cipher,
Imentioned the conversation had had with Davies Gilbert,

and explained the law of the cipher, which we both thought

would baffle the greatest adept in that science. Dr. Fitton

Ifully agreed in my view of the subject ; but even whilst

was explaining the law, an indistinct glimpse of defeating it

presented itself vaguely to my imagination. Having men

tioned my newly-conceived doubt, it was entirely rejected by
Imy friend.
             then proposed that Dr. Fitton should write a

few sentences in a cipher constructed according to this law,

I Iand that should make some attempts to unravel it.
Ioffered to give a few hours to the subject ; and if could

see my way to a solution, to continue my researches ; but if

Inot on the road to success, to tell him had given up the

task.
ILate in the evening of that day commenced a preparatory
Iinquiry into the means of unravelling this new cipher, and
Isoon arrived at a tolerable certainty that should succeed.
IThe next night, on my return from a party, found Dr.
IFitton's cipher on my table.
                               immediately commenced my
Iattempt. After some time found that it would not yield to

my means of treating it ; and on further examination I suc

ceeded in proving that it was not written according to the

law agreed upon. At first my friend was very positive that

I was mistaken ; and having takdn it to his sister, by whose
           DECIPHERED.                        237

aid it was composed, he returned and told me that it was
I Iconstructed upon the very law
                               had proposed.  then

assured him that they must have made some mistake, and

that my evidence was so irresistible, that if my life depended

Iupon the result should have no hesitation in making my

election.

Dr. Fitton again retired to consult his sister ; and after the

lapse of a considerable interval of time again returned, and
Iinformed me that was right-- that his sister had inadver
Itently mistaken the enunciation of the law.
                                              now remarked
I Ithat possessed an absolute demonstration of the fact had

communicated to him; and added that, having conjectured

Ithe origin of the mistake, would decipher the cipher with

the erroneous law before he could send me the new cipher to

be made according to the law originally proposed. Before

the evening of the next day both ciphers had been trans

lated.

   This cipher was arranged upon the following principle :--

Two concentric circles of cardboard were formed, each divided

into twenty-six or more divisions.
   On the outer were written in regular order the letters of

the alphabet. On the inner circle were written the same
twenty-six letters, but in any irregular manner.

   In order to use this cipher, look for the first letter of the

word to be ciphered on the outside circle. Opposite to on
the inner circle, will be another letter, which to be written
           is
                                                                           is
                                                                                             it,
as the cipher for the former.

Now turn round the inner circle until the cipher just

written    opposite the letter a on the outer circle. Proceed

in the same manner for the next, and so on for all succeeding

letters.

Many varieties of this cipher may be made by inserting
238 NEW DICTIONARY OF ENGLISH LANGUAGE.

other characters to represent the divisions between words,

the various stops, or even blanks. Although Davies Gilbert,

I believe, and myself, both arrived at it from our own efforts,
I Ihave reason to think that it is of very much older date.

am not sure that it may not be found in the " Steganographia "

of Schott, or even of Trithemius.

   One great aid in deciphering                   complete analysis of the
language in which the cipher                    written. For this purpose
                                              is is,
                                                  a

                                                             it
I took good English dictionary, and had                         copied out into
                                                               They comprised
              aa series of twenty-four other dictionaries.
all words of

                                  One letter,

                                Two letters,

                                Three letters,

                                    &c. &c.:
                                Twenty-six letters.

   Each dictionary was then carefully examined, and all the3
modifications of each word, as, for instance, the plurals of4

substantives, the comparatives and superlatives of adjectives,:
the tenses and participles of verbs, &c, were carefully indi

cated. A second edition of these twenty-six dictionaries was

then made, including these new derivatives.
   Each of these dictionaries was then examined, and every

word which contained any two or more letters of the same kind

was carefully marked. Thus, against the word tell the num

bers and were placed to indicate that the third and fourth

letters are identical. Similarly, the word better was followed
by the numbers 25, 34. Each of these dictionaries was then

re-arranged thus -- In the first or original one each word was
arranged according to the alphabetical order of its initial

letter.

   In the next the words were arranged alphabetically accord
              queer Coincidences.              239

ing to the second letter of each word, and so in the other
dictionaries on to the last letter.

   Again, each dictionary was divided into several others,
according to the numerical characteristics placed at the end
of each word. Many words appeared repeatedly in several of
these subdivisions.

   The work is yet unfinished, although the classification

Ialready amounts, believe, to nearly half a million words.

   From some of these, dictionaries were made of those words
only which by transposition of their letters formed anagrams.

A few of these are curious : --

   Opposite.   Similarity.         Satirical.
              fuel flue
vote veto                          odes  dose
acre care     taps  pats           bard  drab
evil veil     tubs  buts
ever veer                          poem mope
lips slip
cask sack     vast vats            poet  tope
fowl wolf                          trio  riot
              note tone

              cold  clod           star rats
              evil  vile
                                   wive view

gods  dogs    arms mars            nabs bans

tory  tyro    rove over            tame mate
tars  rats
              lips lisp            acts cats

    There are some verbal puzzles costing much time to solve

which may be readily detected by these dictionaries. Such,

for instance, is the sentence,

                 I tore ten Persian MSS.,

which it is required to form into one word of eighteen letters.
   The first process is to put opposite each letter the number

of times it occurs, thus :--
240 ANAGRAMS.

i2  P1                               It contains --
t2   83
01                                      2 triplets.
r2   a1                                  4 pairs.
08                                      4 single letters.
    in 1
                                       --
           --

n2  6 18

                                 12

12 --

    18

Now, on examining the dictionary of all words of eighteen
letters, it will be observed that they amount to twenty-seven,

and that they may be arranged in six classes :--

7 having five letters of the same kind.
5 >> four
3 j) three triplets
7 >> two triplets.
3 >> one triplet.
2 >> seven pairs.

                   27

Hence it appears that the word sought must be one of those
seven having two triplets, and also that it must have four
pairs ; this reduces the question to the two words --

                                     misinterpretations,
                                     misrepresentations.
The latter is the one sought, because its triplets are e and s,

whilst those of the former are i and t.
   The reader who has leisure may try to find out the word of

eighteen letters formed by the following sentence : --
                        Art is not in, but Satan.

   Another amusing puzzle may be greatly assisted by these
                     SQUARING A DEAN.                      241

dictionaries.  It is called squaring words, and is         thus

practised :--Let the given word to be squared be Dean.     It is
to be written horizontally, and also vertically, thus :--

                           Dean,

                                                  e .. .
                                            a .. .
                                            n .. .

And it is required to fill up the blanks with such letters that

each vertical column shall be the same as its corresponding

horizontal column, thus :--

                            Dean
                          ease

                         asks
                       nest

   The various ranks of the church are easily squared ; but it

Iis stated, know not on what authority, that no one has yet

succeeded in squaring the word bishop.
   Having obtained one squared word, as in the case of Dean,

it will be observed that any of the letters in the two diagonals,
d, a, k, t,--n, s, s, n, may be changed into any other letter
which will make an English word.

   Thus Dean may be changed into such words as

               dear  peas  weak        beam
               fear  seas  lead        seal

               deaf  bear  real        team

In fact there are upwards of sixty substitutes : possibly some

of these might render the two diagonals, d, a, k, t, and n, s, s, n,

also English words.

                                             u
                    CHAPTER XIX.

            EXPERIENCE IN ST. GILES'S.

Deep-snow --Beggar in Belgravia wanted work --He said he was a Watch
  maker--Gave his address -- It was false --Met him months after-- The
   same story --The same untruth -- Children hired for the purpose of Beg
   ging -- Cellar in St. Giles's --Inquired for a Poor Woman and Child --
   Landlady told me of a Man almost starving in her back kitchen -- He
   turned out to be an accomplished Swindler -- Potrboys -- Caught him at
  last--Took him to Bow Street

ISoon after taking up my residence in London, met with

many applications from street-beggars, with various tales of
Idistress.
            could not imagine that all these were fictitious,

and found great difficulty in selecting the few objects on

Iwhom could bestow my very moderate means of charity.
IOne severe winter resolved on making my own personal

observations on the most promising cases which presented

themselves.

  IThe first general principle at which arrived was, that --
  I IIn whatever part of London might be, if asked for the

residence of a mendicant, it was pretty sure to be in a

quarter very remote from the one in which he asked relief.

   The next was, that --

   Those mendicants who professed to want work and not
charity, always belonged to trades in which it was scarcely

possible to give them employment without trusting them with

valuable property.
               BEGGAR, A WATCHMAKER.                     243

One example will suffice. During a very severe winter,

the ground being covered with snow, whilst passing through

Belgrave Square, a man accosted me, declaring that he could

get no work, and that himself and family were starving.
I Iinquired his trade : he was a watchmaker.
Ihis address.                                 asked for

               wrote down in my pocket-book his name, the

street, and the number, and read it to him : it was in Clerken-

Iwell. The next day went there, made particular inquiries

of the landlord, and was informed that no person of that
Iname lodged in the house, or ever had lodged in it.
                                                         spoke

to several respectable female lodgers also, who gave me the

same information, as far as their knowledge went.

  ISeveral months after, met the same professional mendi

cant in Portland Road. He did not recollect me, and again

told the same story, and again gave me the same address.

I IOn this, recalled to his memory that had seen him before :

that he had given me the same address ; and that, having

Imyself been there to inquire, had found that his story was

untrue. This statement had allowed him time to invent a

new tale.

   With well-feigned surprise he suddenly remembered that
his wife, about three months ago, had told him that a strange

gentleman had called, and had particularly inquired for him ;
that his wife, knowing that a writ was out against him, and

that he was liable to be arrested, had denied that any person

of his name resided in the house.

  IA few days after went again to Clerkenwell, and received

from the residents the answer they had given me three
Imonths before.
                 then went to one of the large shops for

tools used by watchmakers near that locality, and having

mentioned the subject to the master, he very readily asked

amongst his shopmen whether they knew of such a person.

                                                 r2
244 BEGGARS WITH CHILDREN.

   He assured me that, even allowing the man had not usually
dealt at his shop, it was impossihle that he should not have

been several times there for some trifling article necessary in
Ithe hurry of his business.
                             then went to two or three other

shops of a similar kind, and found that his name was entirely
Iunknown.
           therefore concluded that he was an impostor.
I will mention one other case, because it arose entirely out

of an accident, and could not have been foreseen.

  ILiving at that time much in society, usually walked

home from the hot rooms of an evening party wrapped in a

stout cloak, even though it sometimes rained. On these

Ioccasions was often placed in a most painful situation.

  A half-clad miserable female, with an infant in her arms,

and sometimes accompanied by another just able to walk,

followed me through a drizzling rain to ask charity for her

starving children.

  I confess it was to me a most painful effort to resist such

an application ; yet my better reason informed me that in all
probability these miserable children were hired for the pur
pose of exciting the feelings of the charitable. To give

money to their heartless conductors could only be considered
charitable, inasmuch as it might contribute to shorten the

lives of their wretched victims.

  I I Ifear gave wrongfully many a sixpenca inquired into

some cases, but without any result which could enable me to

Ialter the opinion have expressed. It was in one of these
Iinquiries that the singular case am now about to relate

occurred.

  IIn one of the densest of London fogs on a November night,

or rather at between one and two o'clock in the morning,

was inquiring, in one of the most disreputable streets in
London --George Street, St. Giles's, long ago pulled down,
THE LANDLADY IN GEORGE STREET, ST. GILES'S. 245

enlarged, and rebuilt --for a female with an infant, who had

represented herself to me as a miserable mother, and into

Ithe truth of whose story was anxious to inquire.
  I had been into several of the lowest lodging-houses, and

into the cellars of that nest of misery and guilt, and was un

Isuccessful in finding the object sought.

    Only a few of these abodes of wretchedness remained un-

I Ivisited, when inquired after the poor woman was seeking

of a somewhat decently clothed woman, who rented one of

them.

   She was the weekly tenant of one of these houses, and told
me that on the preceding night a poor woman, with a child

wrapped up in a miserably torn shawl, had applied for a

lodging at about eleven o'clock. It was raining hard, and the

poor woman possessed only twopence, and the price of a bed
in the cellar was at this house threepence. The poor woman

went away, remarking that she must then go and pawn the
remnant of the shawl that covered her infant. She went, but

returned no more.

The ancient weekly tenant then thought it necessary to

defend, or rather to explain, her own apparently cruel con
Iduct.
        told her that it was unnecessary, and that even in
I Imy inmost thoughts had not cast a reproach upon her.

told her that, from my knowledge of the misery suffered by
Ipoor people,
               could readily imagine circumstances which

might fully explain her conduct.

  IHer heart, however, was too full, so sat down and listened

to her tale. She was a widow advanced in years, having no

relatives, or even friends, to assist her in her old age. She

was the weekly tenant of a small house in that villanous

street, and was entirely supported by letting out every foot of

floor which could be made available for a human being to
246 A STARVING MAN IN HER KITCHEN.

sleep upon. But the stern necessity which hung over her
with its iron hand was this :--

   Her weekly rent became due on each Monday, and if not

paid on that night, the next morning would see her inexorably

turned out of her only home, and deprived of her only means
of sustaining life.

She was pleased at my attention to her sad tale, and, with

a little encouragement, mentioned some of the experience she
had had in her painful vocation.

   " At this moment," she said, " there is lying on a rug in the

back kitchen a young man, who has tasted nothing during the

last two days but water from the pump on the opposite side
of the street. He appears," she said, " to have been in better

circumstances in other times."

It was now two o'clock in the morning, in the midst of a
Idense fog.
              inquired whether it would be possible at this
Ihour to get some soup or meat, or anything to sustain life.

went down into the close unventilated room, and beheld,

stretched on a kind of thing like a couple of sacks, a pale,

emaciated man, apparently about two or three and thirty
Iyears of age.
                desired him to call on me the next morn

ing ; and, leaving my address with his landlady, left also a

small sum of money to procure for him, if possible, present

necessaries.

The next morning this half-starved man called at my
Ihouse, in garments scarcely covering him.
                                            inquired into

his history, and he told me one probably as fabulous as that

with which he afterwards deluded me, during my own short
acquaintance with him.

  I supplied him with a few clothes, shoes, and other things,
Ijust to replace the worn-out rags in which had found him.

and desired him in a day or two, when he got them into a
           AN ACCOMPLISHED ROGUE.  247

Iserviceable form, to come to me, that might see what his

capacity was, and by what means he could best earn a sub

sistence.

  It is unnecessary to enter into the long and artful stories

he invented. The short result was this : that he had been a
steward of a merchant ship --had been in the West Indies,

and on other voyages ; that having, on his return from some
voyage, been reduced by illness to spend all his little earn
ings, and even to sell his clothes, and having no friends in

London, he could not go amongst the merchant captains for

want of decent clothes to appear in. This difficulty was

partially removed by my giving him a suit. He called one

day to tell me that he had succeeded in getting the situation
of steward in a small West Indiaman, and that he did not like

Ito sell or exchange a pair of top-boots which had given him
Iwithout asking my permission, which, of course, gave. He

told me that if he sold the boots, and purchased light, gaudy-

coloured waistcoating, he might do a little profitable business

with the niggers. He showed me the card of the shop in

Monmouth Street at which he had commenced a negotiation

about the sale of the boots, and another, in the same street,

at which he proposed to purchase the waistcoats. He gave

me the name of his ship, and of its captain, and the day of
Isailing.
           flattered myself that he was now in a fair position

to get a fresh start in life.

   A few evenings after the ship was supposed to have sailed

he called at my house, in the midst of heavy rain, apparently

much agitated, and stated that, in raising their anchor, an

accident had happened, by which the captain's leg had been

broken.

He also said that, being sent up with the ship's boat to

fetch the new captain, he could not resist calling at my house
248 CONSULTATION AT BOW STREET.

I Ionce more to express all his gratitude.
                       confess enter
Itained some suspicion about this story ; but said nothing.
  IThe next morning found that during his visit he had

extracted something more from my female servants, upon

whose sympathy he had worked, and who had previously
contributed very liberally to his wants.

  I now went to search for him in his old haunts, and with

much difficulty ascertained that he had been living riotously

at some public-house in another quarter, and had been conti

nually drunk.

My next step was to go to Bow Street and consult Sir

Richard Birnie. Having explained the case, he consulted

several of his most skilful officers ; but none were acquainted

with the man. Sir Richard remarked that he was a very

adroit fellow, and that it was doubtful whether he had actually
I Icommitted an act of swindling.
                       inquired what should do
Iin case found him. The magistrate replied, " Bring him

before me ;" but he did not indicate the slightest expectation

of my accomplishing that object.

  IHaving thanked Sir Richard, withdrew, determined, if
Ithe fellow were in London, would catch Mm.

  I now renewed my inquiries, which at first were ineffec

tual. One day it occurred to me that, as he had shown me

Itwo cards of shopkeepers in Monmouth Street, might pos

Isibly, by cautious inquiry, get some clue to his whereabouts.
   Although it was Sunday when this idea occurred, imme

diately commenced at one end of the street to knock at each

door, apologize to the landlord or landlady, and, shortly

stating my case, to inquire if they could throw any light
Iupon the subject.
                       went up one side of the street, and

down part of the other, having at two places gained some

traces of the fellow.
MORNING VISIT TO ST. GILES'S.                   249

  I will say, to the credit of the then residents, some of
I Iwhom intruded upon at their dinner hour, that received
Iin no one instance the slightest incivility, nor even coldness.

   The most important information obtained was, that a

certain pot-boy (name and name of his public-house both

Iunknown) would probably be able to give me some clue.
      next took my station at the northern end of Monmouth

IStreet, and during three hours accosted every pot-boy who

passed. At last got hold of the right one, and so ultimately

Iobtained the information wanted.

   The fellow was then arrested, and brought before Sir R.

Birnie. The magistrate was much surprised that so clever a
fellow should not have been known to any of his officers.

IAfter a long examination, stated to the magistrate, that

Ithough was very reluctant to appear before the public in
Isuch a case, yet that if he thought it a public duty, should

not shrink from it. Sir Richard remarked, that the incon

venience of my attending two or three days to prosecute would
be very great -- that the fellow was so accomplished an artist,

that it was very doubtful if he could be convicted. He then

Iadded, that the best thing to be done for the man himself

would be, if could produce any new evidence, that he

a                                               and then be dis

          I
                                           it,
should be remanded for a week, to hear

charged with caution from the bench.

As my servants could give additional evidence, the fellow

was remanded for a week, then duly lectured and discharged.

   In the course of my efforts to inform myself of the real

wants of those around me, profited much by the experience

of one or two friends, both most excellent and kind-hearted

men, whose official duties rendered them far more conversant
than myself with the subject. Mr. Walker and Mr. Broderip,
both of them magistrates, were amongst my intimate friends.
250 VALUABLE MAGISTRATES.

Mr. Walker, the author of " The Original," maintained that

no one ever was actually starved in London, except through
his own folly or fault.

   The result of my own experience leads me to recommend
all those who do not possess time and the requisite energies
for personal inquiries, to place the means they wish to devote
to charity in the hands of some sensible and kind-hearted

magistrate.

  I have been present, in the course of my life, at many cases

brought before our London police magistrates. They possess
an immense power of doing good -- a power of making the law
respected, not by its punishments, but by their own kindli

ness of manner and thoughtful consideration for the feelings

of those brought into close contact with them.
   Plain common sense, a kind heart, and, above all, the feel

ings of a thorough gentleman, are invaluable qualities in a

magistrate. They give dignity to the court over which he

presides, as well as an example which will be insensibly fol
Ilowed by all its officers.
                             have seen cases from which my
Iown avocations have imperatively called me away, when

would gladly have remained to admire the kindness and the
tact with which entangled questions have been gradually

brought to a humane and just conclusion.
                       CHAPTER XX.

              THEATRICAL EXPERIENCE.

The Philosopher in a Tableau at the Feet of Beauty --Tableau encored --
  Philosopher at the Opera of ' Don Juan ' -- Visits the Water-works
  above and the dark expanse below the Stage --Seized by two Devils on
  their way up to fetch Juan --Cheated the Devils by springing off to a

   beam at an infinite distance, just as his head appeared to the Audience
   through the trap-door --The Philosopher writes a Ballet --Its rehearsal --
   Its high moral tone-- Its rejection on the ground of the probable com

   bustion of the Opera-house.

I I1 was never particularly devoted to theatrical representa
tions. Tragedy disliked, and comedy, which        enjoyed,

frequently excited my feelings more than the dignity of the

Iphilosophic character sanctioned. In fact, could not stand

the reconciliation scenes.
I did, however, occasionally, in one or two rare instances,
Iassist in a tableau.
                       still remember my delight when per
Isonating a dead body, with my head towards the audience,

lay motionless at the feet of three angels, entranced by their

beauty, and whose charms still fascinate my imagination, and

still retain their wonted power over my own sex.

   We enacted the scene so admirably that our performance
was twice encored. But though thus " thrice slain," the near
proximity of beauty speedily revived the ' caput mortuum '

at its feet.

   On one occasion having joined a party of friends in their

Ibox at the opera of ' Don Juan,' escaped, by half a second,
252 ADVENTURE AT THE OPERA.

a marvellous adventure. Somewhat fatigued with the opera,

I went behind the scenes to look at the mechanism. One of
Ithe scene-shifters of whom had made an inquiry, found out

that I, like himself, was a workman. He immediately offered

to take me all over the theatre, and show me every part.
   We ascended to the roof to examine the ventilation, by

which, if stopped, the spectators, in case of accident or of a row,

might be suffocated. Also, the vast water-tanks by which,
in case of fire, they might be drowned. After long rambling

Iand descending endless steps, found myself in a vast dark

and apparently boundless area ; the fiat wooden roof high

above my head was supported by upright timbers, some having
intermediate stages like large dissecting-tables. Here and
there three lamps, rivalling rushlights, made the obscurity
more visible, and the carpentry more incomprehensible.

   Suddenly a little bell rang --the signal for my scene-shifting
friend to take his post. He pointed to one of the dismal
imitations of a rushlight, and said : " You see that light ; on
" its left is a door, go through that, and straight on until you
" arrive at daylight." Instantly my friend became invisible in

the surrounding gloom.

   My first step when thus suddenly abandoned, was to mount

on a large oblong platform about six feet above the floor.

IHere was philosophically contemplating the surrounding
Iobscure vacuity, in order that might fully " comprehend the

situation."
    Suddenly a flash of lightning occurred. On looking up,

high above my head I saw an opening as large as the platform

I Ion which stood. All there was brightness. Whilst was

admiring this new light, and seeking my way to the upper and
outer world, two devils with long forked tails jumped upon the
platform, one at each end.
ESCAPE FROM THE DEVILS.                                 253

" What do you do here ?" said Devil No. 1.

IBefore could invent a decent excuse, Devil No. 2 ex

claimed :                                Iso replied--

   " You must not come with us."
   This was consolatory and reassuring,
   " Heaven forbid."

During this colloquy, the table, the philosopher, and the

devils, were all slowly moving upward to the open trap-door

of the stage above. Seeing a beam some feet higher at a

Imoderate distance, inquired whether it was fixed and would

bear my weight? " Yes," said Devil No. 1.
   " But you cannot reach it at a jump," added Devil No. 2.
   " Trust that to me," said I, " to get out of your clutches."

We had now reached the level of the desired beam, though

not near enough for a jump. However, still ascending, we

passed it : then stooping my head and bending my body to

Iavoid the floor of the stage, which we were fast approaching,
  sprang down on the beam of refuge. My two missionary

companions continued their course to the world above in

order to convey the wicked Juan to the realms below. My

transit through the dark, subterranean abyss to my own
Iworld above was rapid.
                            soon rejoined my companions, who

Icongratulated me on what they represented as my ' undeserved

escape:' kindly hoping that might be equally fortunate

upon some future occasion.

IPresence of mind frequently arises from having previously
considered a variety of possible events.  had never con

templated such a situation, and have often asked myself and

Iothers what should have been my conduct, in case had not

escaped from my satanic companions; but no satisfactory

conclusion has yet presented itself.

  IDuring one season, had a stall at the German Opera.
254 STALL AT THE OPERA.

One evening, in the cloister scene by moonlight, in the

Iconvent, observed that the white bonnet of my companion

had a pink tint : so also had the paper of our books and every

white object around us.

This contrast of colour suggested to me the direct use of

coloured lights. The progress of science in producing intense

lights by the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe, and by electricity under

Ji its various forms, enabled me to carry out the idea of pro
Iducing coloured lights for theatrical representations.
                                                         made

many experiments by filling cells formed by pieces of parallel

plate glass with solutions of various salts of chrome of

copper, and of other substances.
IThe effects were superb.
                            then devised a dance, in which

they might be splendidly exhibited. This was called the
Irainbow dance.
                 proposed to abolish the foot-lights, and

instead of them to substitute four urns with flowers. These

urns would each conceal from the audience an intense light of

one of the following colours : blue, yellow, red, or any others

which might be preferable.

The rays of light would be projected from the vases towards

the stage, and would form four cones of red, blue, yellow, and

purple light passing to its further end.

Four groups, each of fifteen danseuses in pure white, would

now enter on the stage. Each group would assume the colour

of the light in which it was placed. Thus four dances each of

a different colour would commence. Occasionally, a damsel

from a group of one colour would spring into another group,

thus resembling a shooting star.

After a time, the coloured lights would expand laterally

and overlap each other, thus producing all the colours of the
rainbow. In the mean time the sixty damsels in pure white

forming one vast ellipse, would dance round, each in turn
     THE PHILOSOPHER WRITES A BALLET.       255

assuming, as it passed through them, all the prismatic
colours.

  I had mentioned these experiments and ideas to a few of my

friends, one of whom spoke of it to Mr. Lumley, the lessee of
the Italian Opera House. He thought it promised well, and

Iultimately made a series of experiments in the great concert-

room.

   Ropes were stretched across the room, on wluch were hung
in innumerable forms large sheets of patent net. The various

folds and bendings displayed the lights under endless modifi
cations. Some brilliant greens, some fiery reds, blues of the
brightest hue. Another of these was an almost perfect resem
blance of the dead purple powdery coating of the finest

grapes.

  IThings being thus prepared, had a consultation with the

eminent chef-de-lallet as to the kind of dance and the

nature of the steps to be adapted to these gorgeous colours.
IThus having invented the " Rainbow Dance"
                                            became still

more ambitious, and even thought of writing a story to intro

it,                           moral character. Hence arose the
duce and to give  '

                     it

                           a
beautiful ballet of Alethes and Iris.'

Alethes, a priest of the Sun, surrounded by every luxury

that earth can lay at the feet of its god, feels, like all before

him, that the most glorious life sad without companion to
                  a                     a
                                 is
sympathize with his feelings and share in his enjoyments.

He makes, therefore, magnificent sacrifice to the god of

this visible creation, and prays for the gratification of his

solitary desire.

Apart from all the inferior orders of his class, in the midst

of clouds of incense, the high priest himself becomes en

tranced.                      a  distant and lonely spot of bright
   He beholds in a vision
256 ALETHES AND IRIS.

light. Advancing towards him, it assumes a circular form,
having a small yellow centre surrounded by a deep blue con
fined within a brilliant red circle.

   Retaining its shape, but slowly enlarging in size, it becomes
a circular rainbow, out of which emerges a form of beauty
more resplendent than mortal eyes might bear. Approaching
the Book of Fate, which lies closed upon a golden pedestal in
this the deepest and most sacred portion of the Temple of the
Sun, she opens it and inscribes in purple symbols these
mystic signs.

Then waving her graceful arm over the entranced high
priest, she re-enters the aerial circle : it closes and retires.

   Alethes, recovering from the magic spells his powerful art
had wrought, rushes to the Book of Fate, opens, and reads the
revelation it unfolds.

                    Through ocean's depths to southern ice-fields roam,
                        Through solid strata seek earth's central fire.

                  Cull from each wondrous field, each distant home,
                     An offering meet for her thy soul's desire.

   This gives rise to a series of moving and most instructive
dioramas, in which the travels of Alethes are depicted.

     1. A representation of all the inhabitants of the ocean,

             comprising big fishes, lobsters, and various Crustacea,
              mollusca, coralines, &c.

     2. A view of the antarctic regions, -- a continent of ice

            with an active volcano and a river of boiling water,
            supplied by geysers cutting their way through cliffs of
              blue ice.

     3. A diorama representing the animals whose various
                              HIGH MORAL VIEW.                         257

              remains are contained in each successive layer of the

              earth's crust. In the lower portions symptoms of

              increasing heat show themselves until the centre is

              reached, which contains a liquid transparent sea,
              consisting of some fluid at a white heat, which, how
              ever, is filled up with little infinitesimal eels, all of

              one sort, wriggling eternally.

   This would have produced a magnificent spectacle con

sidered merely as a show, but the moralist might, if he
pleased, have discovered in it a profound philosophy.

   The ennui and lassitude felt by the priest of the Sun arose
from the want of occupation for his powerful mind. The
remedy proposed in the ballet was --look into all the works
of creation.

   The central ocean of frying eels was added to assist the
teaching of those ministers who prefer the doctrine of the
eternity of bodily torments.*

   The night proposed for the experiment of the dance at
length arrived. Two fire-engines duly prepared were placed
on the stage under the care of a portion of the fire brigade.

   About a dozen danseuses in their white dresses danced

and attitudinized in the rays of powerful oxy-hydrogen blow-

* An ancestor of mine, Dr. Burthogge, a great friend of John Locke, wrote,
I regret to say a book to prove the eternity of torments so felt
is                                              ;                      kind of
                is
                                                 aI
                       ; it,                                   it
                                                                    a
hereditary duty to give him a lift. The arguments, such as they are, of my

wealthy and therefore revered ancestor ure contained in work whose title
   " Causa Dei or, an Apology for God," wherein the perpetuity of infernal

torments      evinced, and Divine justice (that notwithstanding) defended. By

Richard Burthogge, M.D. London Imprinted at the Three Daggers, Fleet
                              :

Street, 1675.
   The learned Tobias Swinden, M.A., late rector of Cuxton, in his " Enquiry

into the Nature and Place of Hell," 2nd edition, 1727, has discovered that its

locality in the Sun. The accurate map he gives of that luminary renders

highly probable that the red flames so well observed and photographed by
Hr. De La Rue during a recent total eclipse have real existence.
          is                     a
                                                              B

                                                                        it
258 COMBUSTION THE ENEMY OF GENIUS.

pipes. The various brilliant hues of coloured light had an

admirable effect on the lovely fire-flies, especially as they

flitted across from one region of coloured light to another.

  IA few days after called on Mr. Lumley, to inquire what

conclusion he had arrived at He expressed great admiration

at the brilliancy of the colours and the effect of the Rainbow
IDance, but much feared the danger of fire.
                                             tried to reas
Isure him ; and to show that apprehended no danger from
Ifire, added, that should myself be present every night.

Mr. Lumley remarked that if the house were burnt his cus

tomers would also be burnt with it. This certainly was a

valid objection, for though he could have insured the building,

he could not have insured his audience.
          CHAPTER XXI.

          ELECTIONEERING EXPERIENCE.

The late Lord Lyndhurst candidate for the University of Cambridge--The
   Philosopher refuses to vote for him -- The reason why -- Example of un
   rivalled virtue --In 1829 Mr. Cavendish was a Candidate for that Uni
   versity -- The Author was Chairman of his London Committee--Motives
  for putting men on Committees -- Of the pairing Sub-Committee --
   Motives for Voting -- Means of influencing Voters --Voters brought from
   Berlin and from India -- Elections after the Reform Bill, 1832 --The
   Author again requested to be Chairman of Mr. Cavendish's Committee--
  Reserves three days in case of a Contest for Bridgenorth -- It occurs, but
   is arranged --Bridgenorth being secure, the Author gets up a Contest for
  Shropshire -- Patriotic Fund sends 5001. to assist the Contest -- It lasts
   three days -- Reflections on Squibs -- Borough of Finsbury --Adventure
   in an Omnibus -- A judicious Loan --Subsequent invitation to stand for
   Stroud -- Declined -- Reflections on improper influence on Voters.

When the late Lord Lyndhurst was a candidate for the re
Ipresentation of the University of Cambridge, met Mr.
                                                                ,

Ia Whig in politics, and a great friend of Dr. Wollaston.

After the usual salutation, he said, " hope you will go down
I" to Cambridge and vote for our friend Copley."
                                                  made no

answer, but, looking full in his face, waited for some explana
tion. " Oh," said Mr.  I, " see what you mean. Tou
" think him a Tory ; Copley still is what he always has been
I I" -- a republican."
                       replied that was equally unable to

vote for him upon that ground, and wished my friend good

morning.

                                      s2
260 CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY ELECTION.

IA few evenings after met the beautiful Lady Copley,
Iwho also canvassed me for my vote for her husband.
                                                     had
Ithe energy to resist even this temptation, which should not

have ventured to mention did not the poll-book enable me to

refer to it as a witness of my unrivalled virtue.

   Some years after, in 1829, a vacancy again arose in the
representation of the University of Cambridge. Mr. Caven

dish having recently waived the privilege of his rank, which

entitled him, after a residence of two years, to take the

degree of Master of Arts, had entered into competition with

the whole of the young men of his own standing, and bad

obtained the distinguished position of second wrangler and

senior Smith's prize man. Under such circumstances, it was

quite natural that all those who felt it important that the

accidental aristocracy of birth should be able to maintain its

position by the higher claim of superior knowledge ; as well

as all those who took a just pride in their Alma Mater, should

wish to send such a man as their representative to the House

of Commons.

   A very large meeting of the electors was held in London,
over which the Earl of Euston presided. It was unanimously

resolved to nominate Mr. Cavendish as a proper person to

represent the University of Cambridge in the House of

Commons. A committee was appointed to carry on the

Ielection, of which was nominated chairman. Similar pro

ceedings took place at Cambridge. The family of the young

but distinguished candidate were not at first very willing to

enter upon the contest. As it advanced, the committee-room

became daily more and more frequented. Ultimately, in the

midst of the London season, and during the sitting of the

House of Commons, this single election excited an intense

interest amongst men of all parties, whilst those who sup
          MOTIVES FOR BEING ON A COMMITTEE.                  261

ported Mr. Cavendish upon higher grounds were not less

active than the most energetic of his political supporters.

   At all elections some few men, perhaps from four or five

up to ten or twelve, do all the difficult and real work of the

committee. The committee itselfif it                        for several reasons,

generally very numerous.                               is,

   All who are supposed to have weight are, of course, put

upon it.

Many who wish to appear to have weight get their names

upon it.

Some get put upon thinking to establish a political claim

upon the party.
   Others because they like to see their names in the news

papers.

Others again, who,          not on his committee, would vote

against the candidate.

There are also idlers and busybodies, who go there to talk

or to carry away something to talk about, which may give

them importance in their own circle.

Young lawyers, of both departments of the profession, are

very numerous, possessing acute perceptions of professional

advantage.

      jester and good story-teller are very useful; but
A                                     if

                        aa                      is
                                                          is
                                                                          a
jolly and enterprising professor of rhodomontade            on some
occasions invaluable--more especially he not an Irish

man.

   Occasionally few simply honest men are found upon
committees. These are useful as adjuncts to give kind of
                            ;

                                            it
                                                  is

                                                          a
high moral character to the cause but the rest of the com
mittee generally think them bores, and when they differ

upon any point from the worldly members,                    invariably

whispered that they are crotchety fellows.
262 OF THE PAIRING COMMITTEE.

When any peculiarly delicate question arises, it is sometimes

important to eliminate one or more of them temporarily from

the reed committee of management. This is accomplished (as
in graver matters) by sending him on an embassy, usually to
one of the adepts, with a confidential mission on a subject re

presented to him as of great importance. The adept respect

                  ;                                                                 but

                      is

                       it

                             a

                                  if

                                                          a
                                                                               it,
fully asks for his view of the subject, rather opposes

not too strongly    at last convinced, and ultimately entirely

adopts it. The adept then enters upon the honest simple

ton's crotchet, trots out in the most indulgent manner, and

at length sends him back, having done the double service of

withdrawing him from consultation at which he might have

impeded the good cause, and also of enabling him at any

future time to declare truly, necessary, that he never was

present at any meeting at which even questionable course

had been proposed.

One of the most difficult as well as of the most important

departments of some elections the pairing sub-committee.
                            it, isI
When had myself to arrange           generally picked out two
I
    I
of the cleverest and most quick-witted of the committee.
                                                      I
told them had perfect confidence in their judgment and    I

discretion, and therefore constituted them sub-committee,
                    a

                                 I
                                                   a
with absolute power on all questions of pairing.                                    also

entirely forbade any appeal to myself.      then advised them

to have attached to them couple of good and entertaining

talkers, to hold in play the applicants while they retired to

ascertain the policy of the proposed pair.

Upon one occasion, when both my persuasive gentlemen

were absent, was obliged to officiate myself.         soon dis
I

           if

                                 I
covered that the adverse vote was very lukewarm in his own

cause, and was also very averse to the prospect of missing a
great cricket-match he went to the poll. Whilst my
PRIMITIVE PURITY-- IT WON'T DO.  260

pairing committee were making the necessary inquiries, 1

was so fortunate as to secure the promise of his vote for my
own candidate at the succeeding election. In the meantime

the pairing committee had kindly taken measures to save him
from missing his cricket-match without, however, wasting a

pair.

   Yet notwithstanding all my efforts to introduce primitive

Ivirtue into electioneering, did not always succeed. About
Ia dozen years had elapsed after one of the elections had

managed, when the subject was mentioned at a large dinner-

table. A supporter of the adverse political party, referring

to the contest, stated as a merit in his friends that they had
succeeded in outwitting their opponents, for on one occasion
they had got a man on their side who had unluckily just
broken his arm, whom they succeeded in pairing off against
a sound man of their adversaries. Remembering my able

Icoadjutors in that contest, had little doubt that a good
I Iexplanation existed ; so the next time met one of them

mentioned the circumstance. He at once admitted the fact,
and said, " We knew perfectly well that the man's arm was
" broken ; but our man, whom we paired off against him, had

" no vote." He then added, " We were afraid to tell you of

I" our success." To which replied, "You acted with great

" discretion."
    University elections are of quite a different class from all

others. The nature of the influences to be brought to bear
upon the voters is of a peculiar kind : the clerical element is
large, and they are for the greater part expectant of some

thing better hereafter.
    The first thing to be done in any election contest is to get

as exact a list as possible of the names and addresses of the
voters. In a university contest the chairman should adopt
264 MATERIALS FOB CANVASSING.

certain letters or other signs to be used in his own private

copy attached to the names of the clerical voters.  These
should indicate --

The books such voter may have written.
The nature of his preferment.
The source whence derived.
The nature of his expectations.
The source whence expected.
The age of the impediment.
The state of its health.

The chance of its promotion.

    Possessed of a full knowledge of all these circumstances, a
paragraph in a newspaper regretting the alarming state of
health of some eminent divine will frequently decide the
oscillation even of a cautious voter.

    This dodge is the more easily practised because some
eminent divines, on the approach of an university election,
occasionally become ill, and even take to their bed, in order
to avoid the bore of being canvassed, or of committing
themselves until they see " how the land lies."

    The motives which induce men to act upon election com
mittees are various. The hope of advancement is a powerful

motive. It was stated to me by some of my committee, that

every really working member of the committee which a few
years before had managed the election of Copley for the
University of Cambridge had already been rewarded by place

or advancement.

  IMy two most active lieutenants in the two contests for

Cambridge, to which have referred, were not neglected.
One of them shortly after became a Master in Chancery, and
the other had a place in India, producing £10,000 a year.
GOT A VOTER FROM BERLIN.                           205

The highest compliment, however, that party can pay to

those who thus assist them is entirely to ignore their service,

and pass them over on every occasion. This may be done

with impunity to the very few who have such strong convic
tions that no amount of neglect or ill-usage can cause them

to desert those principles of the soundness of which their

reason is convinced. This course has also the great advantage

of economizing patronage.

Always ascertain who are the personal enemies of the
Ifopposing candidate.
                           skilfully managed, you may safely

depend upon their becoming the warmest friends of your own.

Their enthusiasm can be easily stimulated : their zeal in the

cause may shame some of your own lukewarm friends into

greater earnestness. Men will always give themselves tenfold

more trouble to crush a man obnoxious to their hatred than

they will take to serve their most favoured ally.

  I IWhen have been chairman of an election committee

have found it advantageous to commence my duties early in

the morning, and to remain until late at night. There is

always something to be done for the advancement of the

Icause. In the first Cambridge election in which took part
I invariably remained at my post until midnight ; and in the
Isecond, was seldom absent at that hour.

  IOne evening, being alone, employed myself in looking

through our lists to find the names of all voters at that period

unaccounted for. The first name which attracted my atten

Ition was that of a liberal with whom was personally unac
Iquainted. The next day set at work one of my investigating

committee. In the course of the following day, he had traced

out the voter, who at that time was at Berlin. As there was

ample time for his return, a friend was employed to write to

him, and he returned and voted for our candidate.
266 NEGLECT NO CHANCE.

I IOn another evening, the name of Minchin turned up on
the list.  remembered the man, whom  had met very

frequently at the rooms of one of my most intimate friends;

Ibut had not seen him for nearly twenty years.
  IThe next day, after many inquiries, found that he

had been lost sight of for a long time, and it was believed
Ithat he had gone out to India.
                                 immediately sent a note

to a friend of mine, Captain Robert Locke, who commanded

an Indiaman, to beg of him to look in upon me at the

committee-room.  In two hours he called and informed me

that Minchin was a barrister at Calcutta, and was about to

return to England. On my expressing a wish for further

particulars, he kindly went into the City to procure informa

tion, and on his return told me that Minchin was on his

voyage home in the " Herefordshire," an excellent ship. It

was due on a certain day, about a fortnight thence, and would

in all probability not be three days behind its time.

   In the evening, being again alone in the committee-room,

I resumed the Minchin question, and found that he might
Ipossibly arrive on the second of the three days' polling.

therefore wrote the following letter :--

Dear Minchin,

       If twenty years have not altered your political prin

ciples, we have now an opportunity of getting in a Liberal to
represent our University.

   The three days of polling are

  If you arrive in time, pray come immediately to my com

mittee-room in Cockspur Street.

                                                          Yours truly,
                                                                       C. Babbage.

  I addressed this letter to Minchin at Portsmouth, and

                                                                                    i
               GOT A VOTER FROM INDIA.                        207

making two copies of
               I                      directed them to two other sea
                                 it,
ports. When put these letters into the basket, smiled
                                                              I
at my own simplicity in speculating on the triple improba
                                                                         it
bility--

2. 1.     That Minchin should ever get my letter.
          That his ship, which was expected, should really

            arrive on the second or third of the three days of

             polling.
          That young lawyer should not have changed his

            political principles in twenty years.
3.
               considered that the chance of this election
     Ia
However,

lottery-ticket winning for us vote, although very small,
                                      a

was at least worth the three sheets of letter-paper which

cost our candidate.

Amidst the bustle of the election this subject was entirely

forgotten. The first day of polling arrived, and was con
cluded, and as usual was sitting, at midnight, alone in the
                     I

                                     a
large committee-room, when the door opened, and there

entered man enveloped in huge box-coat, who advanced
I
            a
towards me. He held out his hand, and grasping mine, said,
" have not altered my political principles."
                                                              This was

Minchin, to whom the pilot, cruizing about on the look-out
for the " Herefordshire," had delivered packet of letters.
                                         a

The first letter Minchin opened was mine. He imme

diately went below, told his wife that he must get into the

boat which had just put the pilot on board, and hasten to

Cambridge, whilst she remained with the children to pursue

their voyage to London. Minchin returned in the pilot-boat

to Portsmouth, found coach just ready to start, got up on
                     a
                        a

                                                                                it
the roof, borrowed    box-coat, and on arriving in London,

drove directly to the committee-room. Finding that
268 ELECTION AFTER THE REFORM BILL.

would be most convenient to Minchin to start immediately

Ifor Cambridge, sent off a note to the Temple for the most
Ientertaining man * upon the committee ; introduced him to

Minchin, and they posted down to Cambridge, and voted on
the second day.

   Greatly to the credit and to the advantage of the Univer
sity, Mr. Cavendish was elected on this occasion.

   In May, 1832, after the passing of the Reform Bill, there
was a dissolution of Parliament. At the general election

which ensued, Lord Palmerston and Mr. Cavendish, the two

former members, again became candidates. Two of the most

active members of Mr. Cavendish's former committee called

Iupon" me, one of whom began speaking in somewhat compli
mentary phrases of our young candidate.  was listening

attentively to all that could be said in favour of the Cavendish

family, when his companion, suddenly interrupting him, said,
" No,
       that won't do for Babbage." He then continued,
Iin terms which have no wish to repeat, to speak of our

candidate, and concluded by saying, that they expressed

the opinion of all the working members of the former com

mittee, and came by their desire to request me again to take

the chair during the approaching contest ; stating, also, that

there was no other man under whom they would all willingly

act. He then entreated me to be their chairman, not for the

sake of the Cavendishes, but for the sake of the cause.
IThis appeal was irresistible.
                                immediately acceded to

their request, but with one reservation, in case my brother-in-

Ilaw's seat was contested, that should have three days to

help him at Bridgenorth.                                          I can
   Under such circumstances the contest commenced.

       * My friend, John Elliott Drinkwater, afterwards Bethune.
BRIDGENORTH BEING SAFE.                                   269

Itruly add, that amongst the many elections in which have

taken an active working share, none was ever carrred on

with greater zeal, nor were greater efforts ever made to attain

success.

  I had good reason at its commencement to doubt the

success of our candidate: not from any defect on his part,
but entirely on political grounds. The same reasons induced
me to suppose that Lord Palmerston's seat was equally in

danger. Of course, a tone of perfect confidence was sus

tained, and, but for a very inopportune petition signed by a

Iconsiderable number of members of the University, believe

that we might have managed, by a compromise with the

other party, to have secured one seat for our own. As it

was, however, both the Liberal candidates were defeated.
I IThe contingency had anticipated did occur.
                                               was sent

for, and went down by the mail to assist Mr. Wolryche Whit-

Imore. On my arrival, found that circumstances had entirely

changed, and not only my brother-in-law, but also Mr. Foster,

a large iron-master, was to be returned for Bridgenorth with

out a contest.

  I IAs scon as was informed of this arrangement, took im

mediate measures for rejoining my committee in Cockspur
Street. On reaching Bridgenorth, it appeared that four hours

Iwould elapse before the mail to London could arrive.

fortunately found a great number of Mr. Foster's most influ

ential supporters assembled at the hotel, comprising amongst
them many of the largest iron-masters and manufacturers in

the county. They were naturally elated at the success of
their friend, which secured to their class a certain amount of
influence in the House of Commons. In the course of con
versation, mention was made of the utter neglect of the manu
facturing interests of the district by their county members.
270 A CONTEST FOR SHROPSHIRE STARTED.

I remarked, that it depended upon themselves to remedy this

evil, and inquired whether they were seriously disposed to

Iwork. One of the party, who had greatly assisted me when

was managing another contest, and who had ridden over four

counties in search of votes for us, appealed to my own expe
Irience of their energy. After some discussion,
                                                     suggested

that they should start a rival candidate of their own for the

county.

  I then proposed to retire into another room and draw up

an address to the freeholders, and also placards, to be stuck up
Iin every town and village in the county.
                                           desired them, in

the mean time, to divide the county into districts, of such

size that one of our party could in the course of a day go to

every town and large village in his district, and arrange with

one or more tradesmen in our inteiest to exhibit the address
Iin their shop-windows.
                         also desired them to make an esti

mate of the number of large and small placards necessary for

each town and village, in order that we might ascertain how

many of each need be printed.                        In these

  I returned with the addresses to the freeholders.

the characters of their late members were lightly sketched,

and the public were informed that a committee in the liberal

interest was sitting in every town in the county, and that at
the proper time the name of a fit candidate would be an

nounced.

My friends cordially concurring in these sentiments, unani

mously adopted the addresses, undertook to publish them

in the newspapers, to arrange their distribution, and organize

committees throughout the county. They were, of course,
Ivery anxious to know who was to be their candidate.
                                                      told

them at once that it was not to be expected that they could

succeed in their first attempt, but that such a course would
PATRIOTIC FUND AIDS IT WITH £500.  271

assuredly secure for them in future much more attention to
their interests from their county members. With respect to

a candidate, if they could not themselves find one, these pla

cards and advertisements would without doubt produce one.

  I may here mention that a member of the Cambridge

committee in Cockspur Street had taken rooms at the Crown
and Anchor, and, in conjunction with many other Liberals,
instituted the Patriotic Fund, for the purpose of collecting
subscriptions for the support of liberal candidates at the first

elections under the Reform Bill. A very large sum was soon

subscribed.

  IIn the broadsides and placards issued in Shropshire, had

taken care to allude to this fund in large capitals.

  I now got into the mail for London, amidst the hearty

congratulations of my Shropshire friends. During the few

Iminutes' rest at Northampton, had an opportunity of seeing

a member of the Liberal committee and of informing him of
our proceedings in Shropshire, and afterwards of conveying
his report of the prospects of the contest in that town to our
friends in London.

   Two or three days after every town, and almost every
village in Shropshire, was enlightened by my placards ; and
in the course of a few days more, three candidates were in

the field.

  IOn my return to London communicated with the Patriotic

Fund, who sent down 500Z. to support the party in Shropshire.
After a short contest the Liberal party was of course beaten ;

but the diversion produced the intended effect.

   One portion of electioneering tactics is thought to consist
in the manufacture of squibs. These should never give pain
nor allude to any personal defect or inevitable evil. They
272 CONTEST FOR FINSBURY.

ought either to produce a broad laugh or that involuntary smile
which true wit usually provokes. They are productive of

little effect except the amusement of the supporters engaged
in carrying on the contest.

   My own share in elections has generally been in more
Iserious departments.
                       remember, however, a very harmless
Isquib which believed equally amused both parties, and

which, 1 was subsequently informed, was concocted in Mr.

Cavendish's committee-room.

   . High mathematical knowledge is by no means a very great

qualification in a candidate for the House of Commons, nor

is the absence of it any disparagement. In the contest to

Iwhich refer, the late Mr. Goulburn was opposed to Mr.

Cavendish.  The following paragraph appeared in the

1 Morning Post :'--

   " The Whigs lay great stress on the academical distinction attained by
" Mr. Cavendish. Mr. Goulburn, it is true, was not a candidate for university
" honours ; but his scientific attainments are by no means insignificant. He
" has succeeded in the exact rectification of a circular arc ; and he has like-
"
"  wise discovered the equation of the lunar  caustic,  a problem  likely to prove
   of great value in nautical astronomy."

   It appears that late one evening a cab drove up in hot

haste to the ofHce of the ' Morning Post,' delivered the copy

as coming from Mr. Goulburn's committee, and at the same

time ordered fifty extra copies of the 'Post* to be sent next

morning to their committee-room.

  IDuring my own contest for the borough of Finsbury fewit,

incidents worth note occurred. One day, as was returning
in an omnibus from the City, an opportunity presented itself

Iby which acquired a few votes. A gentleman at the extreme

end of the omnibus being about to leave asked the con
A JUDICIOUS LOAN-- SIXPENCE.  273

ductor to give him change for a sovereign. Those around

expressed their opinion that he would acquire bad silver by

Ithe exchange. On hearing this remonstrance, thought it

a good opportunity to make a little political capital, which

Imight perhaps be improved by a slight delay. So did not

volunteer my services until a neighbour of the capitalist
who possessed the sovereign had offered him the loan of a

sixpence. It was quite clear that the borrower would ask

for the address of the lender, and tolerably certain that it
would be in some distant locality. So, in fact, it turned out :
Kichmond being the abode of the benevolent one. Other

liberal individuals offered their services, but they only pos

sessed half-sovereigns and half-crowns.

  IIn the mean time had taken from my well-loaded breast

pocket one of my own charming addresses to my highly-cul

tivated and independent constituents, and having also a

Ibright sixpence in my hand, immediately offered the latter
Ias a loan, and the former as my address for repayment.

remarked at the same time that my committee-room on

IHolborn Hill, at which was about to alight, would be open

continually for the next five weeks. This offer was imme
diately accepted, and further extensive demands were in
stantly made upon my pocket for other copies of my address.

    My immediate neighbour, having read its fascinating con
tents, applied to me for more copies, saying that he highly
agreed with my sound and patriotic views, would at once
promise me six votes, and added that he would also imme
diately commence a canvass in his own district. On arriving
at my committee-room 1 had already acquired other sup

I Iporters. Indeed, am pretty sure carried the whole of my
Ifellow-passengers with me : for left the omnibus amidst the

hearty cheers of my newly-acquired friends.

                                                                                     T
L'74 REPAID WITH COMPOUND INTEREST.

  IAbout a year or two after this long-forgotten loan, re
Iceived a letter from a gentleman whose name did not

recognize as being one of my too numerous correspondents.

IIt commenced thus :-- " Sir, am the gentleman to whom

"you lent sixpence in the omnibus." He then went on

to state, in terms too flattering for me to repeat, that he

had watched the Finsbury election with the greatest interest,

and much deplored the taste of the electors in rejecting

so, &c. &c, a candidate. My friend then informed me of an

approaching vacancy in the borough of Stroud, in which town

he resided. He proceeded to give me an outline of the state

of opinion, and of the wants of the electors, and concluded

by saying he was certain that my opinions would be very

Ifavourably received. He also assured me, if decided on

offering my services to the constituency, that he should have

great pleasure in giving me every support in his power. In
Ireply,
         cordially thanked him for his generous offer, but
Ideclined the proposed honour. In fact, was not peculiarly

desirous of wasting my time for the benefit of my country.

The constituency of Finsbury had already expressed their

opinion that Mr. Wakley and Mr. Thomas Duucombe were

fitter than myself to represent them in Parliament, and in

Ithat decision most cordially concurred.

   During some of the early contests for the borough of Mary-
lebone, it too frequently occurred that ladies drove round to

their various tradesmen to canvass for their votes, threaten

ing, in case of refusal, to withdraw their custom. This un-

feminine conduct occasionally drew upon them unpleasant
though well-deserved rebukes.

  IIn one of those contests took a considerable interest in
favour of a candidate whom I shall call Mr. A. Meeting
         DISGRACEFUL CANVASSING.                         275

a very respectable tradesman --a plumber and painter, whom

I Ihad employed in decorating my own house -- asked him

how he intended to vote. He replied that he wished to vote

for Mr. A., but that one of his customers had been to his shop

and asked him to vote for Mr. Z., threatening, in case he

declined, never to employ him again.

  I inquired whether his customer's house was larger than

mine, to which he replied that mine was twice the size of the
Iother.
         then asked whether his customer was a younger
man than myself, to this he replied, " He is a much older

man."

  I Ithen asked him what he would do if adopted the same

line of conduct, and insisted on his voting for my friend

IMr. A. This query was unanswerable. Of course did not

attempt to make him violate his extorted promise.

   Such conduct is disgraceful, and if of frequent occurrence

would have a tendency to introduce the vote by ballot; a

mode of voting for representatives which, in my opinion,

nothing short of the strongest necessity could justify.

The election for Finsbury gave occasion to the following

jeu d'esprit, which, as a specimen of the electioneering squibs

Iof the day, give in extenso :--
                        CHAPTER XXII.

     SCENE FROM A NEW AFTER-PIECE,

" Politics and Poetry                      CAllED

                                           or, " The Decline of Science."

                        DRAMATIS PERSON2E.

PEOPLE OF FASHION:--
Turnstile, a retired Philosopher, M.P./or Shoreditch.
Lord Flumm, a Tory nobleman of ancient family.
LCaoudnyteSsselinoaf ,  Flumm, his wife.
                          their daughter.
  Hon. Mrs. Fursey, sister of the Countess.

WHIGS :-
Lord A., Prime Minister.
   CSlhoisfetw, iSnedc,retFairrystaLt orWdaro.f the Admiralty.
-- Smooth, Secretary for the Colonies; also M.P.for Shoreditch.

TORIES.--                                  Members of the Conservative Club.
  Lord George,
   Lord Charles,
  Marquis of Flamrorough,
  Dicr Trim, a former Whipper-in,

SHOREDITCH ELECTORS:--

   Highway, a Radical.
   Grisrin, Colonel of the Lumber Troop.
   Tripes, his Lieutenant.

PHILOSOPHERS .--
  Sir Orlando Windfall, Knt. R. Han. Guelph. Order, an Astronomical

     Observer.
Sir                Smugo, Knt. R. Han. Guelph. Order, Professor of Botanism.
At   aSllim, oann  Episcopizing Mathematician, Dean of Canterbury.

Byeways, a Calculating Officer.

                        Other Lords -- Conservative and Whig.

The Scene is laid in London ; principally at the West-end of the Town.
                        The time is near the end of May, 1835.
ELECTIONEERING SQUIB.                                277

SCENES, &c, Extracted.

ACT I.

Scene I. -- Committee-room of the Conservatives, Charles-
  street ; Lord Flumm ; Marquis of Flam borough ; Lord
   George; Lord Charles; other Tory Lords, and Trim.

  A table covered with papers; Lord Charles smoking a
  cigar ; Lord George half asleep in an arm-chair; Trim

   busy in looking over a list of the Souse of Commons.

  I ITrim. It will be a devilish close run see !--yet think we

might manage some of them {Pause). Does anybody know

Turnstile ?

   Marquis. Never heard of him !

   Lord George. {Mumbling). The reform Member for Pud-
dledock, isn't he ?--the author of a book on Pinmaking, and
things of that kind. An ironmonger in Newgate-street !

   Trim. No, no! Member for Shoreditch; --with Smooth,

the Colonial Secretary !                             I think
   Lord Charles. {Taking the cigar from his mouth.)

I've heard something of him at Cambridge : he was New

Itonian Professor of Chemistry when was at College.

Trim. Can't we talk him over ?

Lord Charles. No, no ! he is too sharp for that.
Trim. Will anybody speak to him ?--and if he won't vote

with us, keep him out of the way.
   Marquis. Perhaps a hint at an appointment !--

Lord Charles. Nor that either ; he is a fellow of some

spirit ; and devilish proud.
278 ELECTIONEERING SQUIB.

   Lord Flumm. But what are his tastes ? -- how does he
employ himself? --who are his friends?

   Trim. Why he's--a sort of a-- philosopher, --that wants to

be a man of the world !

  I ILord Flumm. Oh! -- now begin to recollect; -- must
Ihave seen him at Sir Phillip's. Leave him to me ;-- think

Lady Flumm and my daughter can manage to keep him

quiet on Thursday night.               must  try what  I can

   Trim. But for Tuesday, --my Lord ?

  ILord Flumm. Two nights !--Then

do for you, myself.                                    [Exit.

Scene IV. -- Orosvenorsquare.

Enter Turnstile, musing.

    Turnstile. This will never do ! They make use of me, aud
laugh at me in their sleeves; -- push me round and go by.

That break down was a devil of a business! They didn't

laugh out to be sure ; but they coughed and looked unutter

Iably I ! And where is this to end ? What shall have to

show for it ? Confounded loss of time ; --to hear those fellows

/prosing, instead of seeing the occultation last night. And
that book of Ls.' ; so much that  had begun upon, -- and

might have finished ! It never will do ! {Bousing himself
after a pause.) But knowledge, after all, is power ! That
at least is certain,-- power-- to do what? to refuse Lord

Doodle's invitation ; and to ask Lord Humbug for a favour,

Iwhich it is ten to one he will refuse ! But the Royal Society

is defunct ! That have accomplished. Gilbert, and the
I IDuke ! and the Secretaries !
me !--and, now, though           have driven them all before

                               must not be a knight of the

Guelphic order, (yet a riband is a pretty looking thing ! and
                    ELECTIONEERING SQUIB.               270

I Ia star too !--) will show that can teach them how to make

knights ; and describe the decorations that other men are to

Iwear. But here comes Lord Flumm, and am saved the

bore of calling upon him.

                        Scene V.

                    Enter Lord Flumm.

   Lord Flumm. Mr. Turnstile, if 1 do not mistake ! My dear

ITurnstile : how glad am to see you again ! it was kind of

Sir Phillip to introduce me. You know that you are near
our house ; and Lady Flumm will be so happy

  ITurnstile. In truth, my Lord, was about to call upon you.
IAfter what you were so good as to say last night, took the

first opportunity.

Lord Flumm. Well, that is kind. But you did not speak
Ilast night. How came that ?
                              don't find you in the paper,

yet the subject was quite your own. Tallow and bar-iron,

raw materials and machinery. Ah, my dear sir ! when

science condescends to come among us mortals, the effects to

be expected are wonderful indeed !

   Turnstile. My Lord, you flatter. But we have reached

Iyour door. (Aside.) [Confound him !--But am glad he was

not in the house. It's clear he hasn't heard of the break

Idown.]                 have you to myself, Turnstile,
   Lord Flumm. While
Iremember that you dine with me on Tuesday.
                                             am to have

two friends, Lord S     and Sir George Y     , who wish

Ivery much to be acquainted with you. Half-past seven.
Turnstile. You are very good, my lord.     dare not refuse

so kind an invitation.                       [Exeunt.
280 ELECTIONEEItlNG SQUIB.

Scene VI. --Lady Flumm's drawing-room. Lady Flumm
   at the writing-table. Mrs. Fubsey at work on a sofa.

            Enter Lord Flumm and Turnstile.

   Lord Flumm. Lady Flumm, this is Mr. Turnstile, whom
you have so long wished to know. Mr. Turnstile, -- Lady

Flumm.                                IMy dear sir, am too
   Lady Flumm. The Mr. Turnstile.

happy to see you. We      had just    been speaking of your
delightful book. Selinal  (Calling.)    [Enter Lady Selina.]
This is Mr. Turnstile.

Lady Selina. Indeed !

Lady Flumm. Yes, indeed ! You see he is a mortal man

after all. Bring me, my love, the book you will find open
Ion the table in the boudoir.
                               wish to show Mr. Turnstile
Ithe passages have marked this morning.

Lady Selina. (Returning with the book, and running over
the leaves.) " Lace made by caterpillars." -- " Steam-engines
with fairy fingers." -- " Robe of nature." -- " Sun of science." --
" Faltering worshipper." -- " Altar of truth." It
                          is                                              indeed,

                                      I

                                       I
                                                                     is,
delightful The taste, the poetical imagination, are sur
           ? !Ihope, Mr. Turnstile, --indeed am sure, that you
prising.

love music

Turnstile. Not very particularly,        must acknowledge

(smiling)  ;     barrel-organ the instrument most in my way.

              a

Lady Flumm. (Smiling.) Music and machinery, Mr. Turn

stile. Polite literature and mathematics. You do know how

to combine. Others must judge of the profounder parts of

your works but the style, and the fancy, are what shouldI;II

most admire. --You dine with Lord Flumm, he tells me, on

Tuesday. Now you must come to me on Thursday night.

Turnstile. am sorry to say, that, on recollection, ought to
ELECTIONEERING SQUIB.                                                         281

have apologized to Lord Flumm. The Pottery Question

Istands for Tuesday; and should be there, as one of the

Committee ; and Thursday, your Ladyship knows, is the

second reading of the Place and Pension BilL

   Lady Flumm. Oh, we are Staffordshire people ! that will

Iexcuse you to the pottery folks; and, for Thursday, will

absolutely take no excuse. We have Pasta and Donzelli !
perhaps a quadrille afterwards --(you dance, Mr. Turnstile ?)
--and Lady Sophia C  and her cousin, Lord F
                                                                              , have

said so much about those beautiful passages at the end of your

Ibook, that they will be quite disappointed if do not keep

my promise to introduce them. {Touching his arm with her

finger.)                                                    how to conquer :  I feel
    Turnstile. Your Ladyship knows
                                                                              [Exit.
Ithat cannot refuse.

Scene VII. -- Grosvenor-square ;                            before Loud  Flumm's

                                                    house.

                 Enter Turnstile, from the house.

    Turnstile. This is all very delightful ; but what will they
say at Shorediteh? --twice in one week absent from the
House, and at two Tory parties.

Enter Griskin, hastily, heated ; his Jiat in his left hand ; a
                      pocket-handkerchief in his right.

   Griskin. Mr. Turnstile, I'm glad to find you ; just called

Ion you, as came to this quarter to look after a customer --

long way from the City --sorry not to hear from you.

  ITurnstile. Why, really, Mr. Griskin, am very sorry ;
Ibut am not acquainted with the Commander-in-chief. And
I Imust say that should not know how to press for the con
282 ELECTIONEERING SQUIB.

tract, knowing that your nephew's prices are thirty per cent.,
at least, above the market.

  IGriskin. That's being rather nice, should say, Mr. Turn

stile. My nephew is as good a lad as ever stood in shoe-
leather ; and has six good wotes in Shoreditch, --and, as to

I Imyself, Mr. Turnstile, must say that, after all did at
Iyour election --and in such wery hot weather -- did not

expect you'd be so wery particular about a small matter. --

ISir, wish you a good morning.
  ITurnstile. {Bowing and looking after him.) So this fellow,

like the rest of them, thinks that am to do his jobs, and to
neglect my own. And this is your reformed Parliament.

Scene IX. -- The street, near Turnstile's home.

Enter Tripes and Smooth, meeting.

   Smooth. (Taking both Tripes' hands). My dear Tripes,
how d'ye do? --Pray, how is your good lady? --What a jolly

Iparty at your house last night ! and Mrs. Tripes, hope, is

none the worse for it ?

Tripes. Oh dear sir, no ! Mrs. Tripes and my daughters

were so pleased with your Scotch singing.
Smooth. And your boys, how are they? --fine, promising,
active fellows. -- You've heard from MacLeech ?

  ITripes. Just received the note as left home.

Smooth. All is quite right, you see, your cousin has the
Iappointment at the Cape.
                           knew MacLeech was just the
Iman for the details. A ship, find, is to sail in about three
Iweeks ; and {significantly) don't think your cousin need be

very scrupulous about freight and passage.

   Tripes. You are too good, Mr. Smooth. I'm sure if any

Ithing that can do, -- my sense of all your kindness
ELECTIONEERING SQUIB.                  283

I ISmooth.
was thinking, when saw those fine lads of

yours, that another assistant to my under secretary's deputy

--but (between you and me) Hume thinks that one is more

than enough. We must wait a little.

Takes Tripes' arm.                     [Exeunt.

Scene X. -- Turnstile's parlour, 11£ am. Breakfast on
                                       In the corners of the
the table ; pamphlets and newspapers.

room, books and philosophical instruments, dusty and thrown

together ; heaps of Parliamentary Reports lying above them.

Tursntile alone, musing, and looking over some journals.

    Turnstile. This headache ! Impossible to sleep when one
goes to bed by daylight. Experiments by Arago ! Ah ! a
paper by Cauchy, on my own subject. But here is this
cursed committee in Smithfield to be attended; and it is

already past eleven. {Rising).

                            [Knock at the hall door.]

                                   Enter Servant.

   Servant. Mr. Tripes, sir.
   Turnstile. Show him in. He comes, no doubt, to say that

my election is arranged. A good, fat-headed, honest fellow.

                                   Enter Tripes.

   Well Mr. Tripes, I'm glad to see you. Pray take a chair.
    Tripes. We hoped to have seen you at the meeting yester
day, sir. Capital speech from Mr. Smooth. You know, of
course, that Mr. Highway is a candidate ; and Mr. MacLeech
is talked of ; --very sorry, indeed, you weren't there.
   Turnstile. A transit of Venus, Mr. Tripes, is a thing that
does not happen every day. Besides, my friend, Stellini
284 ELECTIONEERING SQUIB.

Ifrom Palermo, is here ; and had promised to go with him to

Greenwich.

Tripes. Almost a pity, sir, to call off your attention from

such ohjects. But in the City we are men of business, you

know, -- plain, every-day people.
ITurnstile. It was unlucky ; but could not help it. The
Icommittee, hope, is by this time at work ?
I ITripes. It was just that, called about.
                                             wished to tell
I Iyou myself how very sorry am that cannot be your chair
man. But -- my large family--press of business, -- in short,
I-- you must excuse me ; --and, if
                                    should be upon Mr.
I ISmooth's committee, don't well see how can attend to

both.

   ITurnstile. Smooth !-- but he and go together, you know,
I--at least, understood it so.

  ITripes. I'm glad to hear it ; feared there might be some

mistake. And, if Mr. MacLeech comes forward, -- being a

fellow-townsman of Mr. Smooth, and a good deal in the
Glasgow interest ;--a commercial man too, Mr. Turnstile ;--a

Ipractical man --Mr. Turnstile ; -- am not quite sure that you

can count upon Mr. Smooth's assistance ; --and Government,

you know, is strong.

   Turnstile. Assistance, Mr. Tripes, --from Smooth 1--why

I came in on my own ground ; -- on the Independent interest.

--Assistance from Smooth !-- Besides, -- Smooth knows very

well that our second votes secured him.

    Tripes. Very true, sir ; but these Independent people are

hard to deal with ; and Mr. Highway, I assure you, hit very

hard in his speech at the meeting yesterday. He talked of
amateur politicians, --attention to the business of the people,

I--dinners with the opposite party. In short, fear, they

will say, --like the others, -- that what they want is something
ELECTIONEERING SQUIB.                                                                 285

Iof " a practical man," Mr. Turnstile. --I'm sorry that must

be going. -- Sir, your servant.

Turnstile. (Rising and ringing.) [Enter servant.} Open
the door for Mr. Tripes. [Exit Teipes.] D
                                                                                      d, double-

faced, selfish blockhead !

Scene XI.-- The street, as before.

Enter Tripes, from Turnstile's house.

    Tripes. (Putting on his hat.) He might have been more
civil, too ; --though he did count upon me for his chairman.

But I'll show him that I'm not to be insulted; and
                                                                                      of
MacLeech manages the matter well for Charles, this Mr.                                      ; if,

Philosopher Turnstile, though he thinks himself so clever,

may go to the devil.                                                                  [Exit.

                            ACT II.

Scene -- Downing-street, after Cabinet Meeting. Lord A.
  Closewind Shift Smooth and other Members the

     Cabinet.

   Lord A. That point being settled, gentlemen, the sooner
you are at your posts the better. The King comes down to
dissolve on Friday.* But, before we part, we had better
I.

               ;
                                        ;

                                         a

                                                                  ;

Parliament ordinarily dissolved by Proclamation, after having been
*
                          is
                                                                   is
                                                                                   :
previously prorogued. However, there                                                at least one modern instance to

justify the historical consistency of the text, namely, that which occurred

on the 10th June, 1818, when the Prince Regent, afterwards George IV.,

dissolved the Parliament in person. The Dramatist cannot therefore be

properly accused of drawing heedlessly upon his imagination, though even

had he thus far transgressed the boundaries of historical truth, Horace's
maxim might have been pleaded in excuse --

                            " Pietoribus atque Poetis

Quidlibet audendi semper fait toqua potestas."
286 ELECTIONEERING SQUIB.

decide about this Presidency of the Board of Manufactures.

The appointment requires an able man ; of rather peculiar

Iattainments. Mr. Turnstile has been mentioned to me ; and

his claims am told, are strong :--long devotion to science, --
great expense and loss of time for public objects, --high repu

tation, and weight of opinion, as a man of science.
ISmooth.
          believe that he has left science; at least, he

wishes it to be so considered. He is my colleague at Shore-

Iditch ; and, of course, wish to support him ; --but, -- when

business is to be done ; -- and men, -- and things, to be brought

I Itogether, -- own, -- doubt--whether a more practical man,

--might not

   Shift. And that poor Turnstile certainly is not. He must
always have a reason ;--nothing but the quod erat demonstran
dum ; a romancer ; if you have anything to do, his first object

Iis to do it well. am quite sure he will not answer our purpose.

Clogewind. He talks too much about consistency ; and on

party questions, you are never sure of him : last week he did

Inot divide with us, on either night.     I did hear of his
   Lord A. Well ; am quite indifferent.

being at Lord Flumm's ; and after what had just passed in

the Lords, a personal friend of mine would, perhaps, have
kept away from that quarter. Is there no other person ?

Smooth. {Hesitatingly.) Da vies Gilbert.

   Shift. (Laughing.) Pooh! Pooh! Poor Gilbert! No,

that will never do.

   Smooth. Or--Warburton ?
  Shift. (Sneering.) Worse and worse ! -- if ever there was

an impracticable

Closeurind. But we don't know that Turnstile is sure of his

seat. Smooth, hasn't MacLeech been talked of for Shore-

ditch?
         ELECTIONEERING SQUIB.                     287

   Smooth. He's certain of succeeding! The independent

gentlemen don't quite like Turnstile--they wish for Highway
--and the split will foil them both. MacLeech--now that

Ihe has been mentioned -- must acknowledge, does seem to

me to be the very man for the manufactures, --a practical,
persevering man of business, --never absent from the House,
--excellent Scotch connections, -- a cousin of the Duke of

Y.'s .
   Lord A. That is a good point, certainly. An appointment

given there would be candid and liberal ; --it might con

ciliate

I Closewind. A very civil, excellent fellow, too.  MacLeech,
   should say, is the man.
IShift. quite agree with you.
I ISmooth. confess, think he will fill the office well. And

if it is thought quite necessary that Hume's motion to reduce
the salary, -- though it is not large

   Closemnd. Oh, no ! The salary had better remain ; --

2000Z. is not too much. Besides, the principle of giving way

is bad.

Lord A. Well, gentlemen, let it be so. Smooth, you

will let MacLeech know that he has the office.

Smooth. And at the present salary ?                [Uxeunt.
Lord A. Agreed.

Scene IV.-- The Athenaeum Club. Smooth and Atall at

                                             a table.

  ISmooth. saw it this morning on the breakfast-table at
ILord A's ; it is an admirable article, and was told is yours.

   Atall. (Decliningly.) These things, you know, are always

Isupposed to be anonymous. But am not sorry that you

liked the paper. Did his lordship speak of it ?
L'SS ELECTIONEERING SQUIB.

   Smooth. The book was open at the article upon the table.

It does you honour. Hits just the happy point, -- hints pro

bable intentions, without giving any pledge, --enough to please
the Liberals, --and full room for explanation, if any change

becomes expedient. The true plan, believe me, for a ministry,

in times like these, is to proceed en tdtonnant. --Pray, Mr-

Dean, how is the Bishop of Hereford ?

  IAtall. didn't know that he was particularly ill. He has

long been feeble.

   Smooth. These complainers do sometimes hold out. But

Ithey cannot last for ever. --We meet hope to-morrow at the

levee. You ought to be there.
IAtall.
         have come to town for the purpose ;         having
Isecured, think, Closewind's election at Cambridge.

  ISmooth. Well done, my very good friend! Men of talent

should always pull together. Sorry that must go ; but we

meet to-morrow. {Shaking hands very cordially.)      [Exit.

Scene VI. -- Byeways' lodgings. Byeways alone, writing.
                         Enter Turnstile.

ITurnstile. My dear Byeways ;  want your assistance.
IDeserted by those shabby dogs the Radicals, and tricked,
I Ifear, by the Whigs, find have no chance of a decent show

of numbers at the next election, if my scientific friends do

Inot support me with spirit. Even so, it can be only an
honourable retreat.   count upon you, -- you understand the

world ; -- and as soon as we can muster a committee, you

must be my chairman.

Byeways. My good friend, don't be in a hurry ; sit down
Iand tell me all about it.
                            know you don't care much about
your seat, --and after all, -- it --to you, waste of time --
                               is,
                                                    a

                                                                                                   ;
       ELECTIONEEBING SQUIB.                                                                                        289

but, with the Independents at your back, you are secure.                                                            As

Ito me, my dear fellow, you know that am

Turnstile. But man ! the Independents, as you call them,

have taken up Highway ; he blusters, and goes any length.
   Byeways. But Smooth, you know, is strong in Shoreditch, --«

Government interest, --you brought him in last time; and

you and he, together
ITurnstile. know it ; but he says he is not strong enough
Ifto run any risk.
                      you will be my chairman, with a good

committee, we may at least die game.

 I IByeways. My dear Turnstile, you know how glad always

am to serve you --and you know what think ;--but in my

Isituation, my dear fellow, it is quite impossible that can

oppose the ministers. MacLeech too, they say, is a candidate ;
and his brother-in-law's uncle was very civil, last year, in

IScotland, to my wife's cousin. -- But have a plan for you.

There is Atall, just come to town ; make him your chief, and

bring the Cambridge men together. The clergy were always

Istrong in Shoreditch. Atall can speak to them. -- am

obliged to go to the War Office. --And you had better lose no

I Itime in seeing Atall. Sorry to bid you good-bye.                                                                 [Exit.
    Turnstile. Well, this is strange! yet thought                                                                   might

have counted upon Byeways.                                                                                          [Exit.

Scene VIIL--Lady Flumm's Drawing-room. Lady

     Flumm: ; Lady Selina ; Hon. Mrs. Fubsey.

Mrs. Fubsey. But, my dear sister; how can you so be-

flatter that poor man ? You don't know all the mischief you

may do to him.                I cannot pity him. His
   Lady Flumm. " Poor man !"

maxim  that knowledge power and he thinks his know-
       is,

                                  is

                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                 D
290 ELECTIONEERING SQUIB.

ledge is all that can be known. He has to learn that our
knowledge, also, is power ; and that we know how to use it

too.

                         Enter Lord Flumm.

   Lord Flumm. There, Lady Selina, so much for your
philosophic friend. Poor Turnstile ! What a business he
has made of it. Here is the "Times," with the report of the
Shoreditch election meeting. Turnstile has no chance. The
Scotchmen coalesce ; Highway none of us can think of ; and
Smooth and MacLeech walk over the ground in triumph :
and then, the Presidency of Manufactures, the very appoint
ment for which poor Turnstile was fitted (and, to do the
poor devil justice, he could have filled it well), is given to
MacLeech, a Scotch hanger on, or distant cousin of Smooth's,
and with the old salary, in spite of all that Hume could say
against it.-- Bravo! Reform, and the Whigs for ever! -- We
Tories could not have done the business in a better style.

                                 Enter a Footman.

   Footman. Mr. Turnstile, my Lady, sends up his card.
   Lady Flumm. Oh, not at home ! And Sleek, put a memo
randum in the visiting-book, that we are "out of town,"
whenever Mr. Turnstile calls.

Scene XII. --Turnstile's Parlour. Night.                    Turnstile

                                                    alone.

ITurnstile. Then all is up. What a fool have been to

embark upon this sea of trouble ! Two years of trifling and

lost time ; while others have been making discoveries and

Iadding to their reputation. Those rascal Whigs, my blood
boils to think of them.  can forgive the Shoreditch people
ELECTIONEERING SQUIB.                                  291

--the greasy, vulgar, money-getting beasts; --but my friends,

the men of principle  {Getting up and walking about.)

Is it still too late to return? {Looking round upon his

books and instruments.) There you are, my old friends, whom
I have treated rather ungratefully.
                                     What a scene at that

cursed meeting ! Highway's bullying ; and the baseness of

Smooth ; the sleek, sly, steering of that knave MacLeech ;
Iand yet they must succeed. There's no help for it.
                                                       am

fairly beaten--thrown overboard, with not a leg to stand
Iupon ; and all have to do is to go to bed now, to sleep off

this fever ; and to-morrow, take leave of politics, and try to

be myself once more.

END OF THE EXTRACTS.

   Note. -- The reader will doubtlessly have already discovered that " Bye-

ways," with the other dramatis pertonceoi this squib, are living characters

not unknown in fashionable and political circles. In a future edition, if it

Ican be done without offence, may perhaps be induced to present them to

the public without their masks and buskins.
CHAPTER XXIII.

EXPERIENCE AT COURTS.

Pension to Dr. Dalton-- Inhabitants of Manchester subscribe for a Statue
   by Chantrey -- The Author proposed that he should appear at a Levee --
   Various difficulties suggested and removed -- The Chancellor approves
   and offers to present him -- Mentions it to King William IV. -- Difficulties
  occur -- Dalton as a Quaker could not wear a Sword-- Answer, he may
   go in his Robes as Doctor of Laws of Oxford -- As a Quaker he could not
   wear Scarlet Robes -- Answer, Dalton is afflicted with Colour-blindness
  -- Crimson to him is dirt-colour -- Dr. Dalton breakfasts with the Author
  -- First Rehearsal -- Second Rehearsal at Mr. Wood's -- At the Levee -- The
   Church in danger -- Courtiers jealous of the Quaker --Conversation at
   Court sometimes interesting, occasionally profitable.

The following letter was addressed by me to Dr. Henry, the

Ibiographer of Dalton, in reply to inquiries respecting the part
   had taken in procuring a pension for that distinguished

philosopher. It was printed in the " Life of Dalton," and is

now reprinted from its illustration of the subject of this
chapter :--

I" My dear Sir, -- have now examined my papers, as far
I Ias can, to find any traces of Dalton amongst them.
                                                       find
Ionly two letters, of which send you copies.
  I" well remember taking a great interest in Dalton's

pension, as you will see by several passages in ' The Decline

Iof Science,' pp. 20 and 22, and note ; but have no re

collection of any of the circumstances, or through what

channel it was applied for.
             STATUE OF DALTON.                                                                 293

I" find several letters of that date from Mr. Wood,* and
Iit appears from them that went with him to Poulett Thom
I Ison ; t but only gather this fact from those letters.
                                                                                               send

them in the enclosure, as they may be of use. You can

return them  at your own convenience.       had subscribed
             the inhabitants of Manchester
   " When

2,000Z. for a statue of Dalton, he came up to London, and

Iwas the guest of Mr. Wood. He sat to Chantrey for the
statue.  consequently saw much of my friend. It occurred

to me that, as his townsmen were having a statue of him --as

the University of Oxford had given him the honorary degree
of Doctor of Laws--and as the Government had given him a

pension --if it were not incompatible with his feelings, it would

Itbe a fit thing that he should be presented at a levee.

appeared to me that if William the Fourth were informed of

would afford him an opportunity of saying few words
it,

  it

              it I
                                         a
                                                                                            a
to the venerable philosopher, which would be gratifying to

the inhabitants of Manchester, the University of Oxford, and

the world of science.           note to Mr. Wood, suggesting the
   " Accordingly wrote

idea, and proposing that he should ascertain from Doctor

Dalton whether would be unpleasant to him to go through

the usual forms.

   " Dalton not objecting, my note was sent on by Mr. Wood

to Lord Brougham, who at that time was Lord Chancellor.

He approved highly of the plan, and offered to present

Doctor Dalton. He also mentioned the circumstance to the

King.

   " had had some conversation with Mr. Wood upon the
I

                            a
                                              t

                                                                                   a
subject, when several difficulties presented themselves to him.
Doctor Dalton, as Quaker, could not appear in court-

* Member for South Lancashire.  Afterwards Lord Sydenham.
294 FIRST REHEARSAL OF A LEVEE.

Idress, because he must wear a sword. To this replied, that
Ibeing aware of the difficulty, had proposed to let him wear

the robes of a Doctor of Laws of Oxford.

   " Mr. Wood remarked, that those robes being scarlet, they

were not of a colour admissible by Quakers.

  I" To this replied, that Doctor Dalton had a kind of

colour-blindness, and that all red colours appeared to him to

Ibe the colour of dirt. Besides, had found that our friend

entertained very reasonable views of such mere matters of

form. The velvet cap of the Doctor again was not an
obstacle, as he was informed that it was usually held in the

hand, and was rather a mark of office than a covering for

the head.

   " These difficulties being surmounted, Doctor Dalton came

one morning to breakfast with me. We were alone; and

after breakfast he went up with me into the drawing-room, in

order to see the Difference Engine. After we had made

several series of calculations, he recollected that he had in his

pocket a note to me from Mr. Wood. On hastily looking

Iit over, found that it was to announce to me that our friend

acquiesced in the plan.

  I" now mentioned the forms usual at a levee, and placing

Iseveral chairs in order to represent the various officers in the

Presence-chamber, put Doctor Dalton in the middle of the
I Icircle to represent the King.
then told my friend that
Ishould represent a greater man than the King ; that in

tended to personate Doctor Dalton, and would re-enter at the

further door, go round the circle, make my obeisance to the
King, and thus show him the kind of ceremony at which he

was to assist.

  I" On passing the third chair from the King's, put my

card on the chair, at the same time informing Doctor Dalton

                                                                   A.
FULL DRESS REHEARSAL OF LEVEE.                          295

that this was the post of a Lord in Waiting, who takes the

cards, and gives them to the next officer, who announces them

to the King.
I" On passing the philosopher
                               kissed his hand, and then
Ipassing round the rest of the circle of chairs, thus gave him

his first lesson as a courtier.

  I" It was arranged that should take Doctor Dalton with

me to the levee, and put on his card, ' Doctor Dalton, pre

sented by the Lord Chancellor.'

  I" When the morning arrived went to Mr. Wood's resi

dence, and found Doctor Dalton quite ready for the expedi

tion. In order to render the chief actor perfect in his part,

we again had a rehearsal ; Mrs. Wood personating the King,

and the rest of the family, with the assistance of sundry chairs
Iand stools, representing the great Officers of State.
                                                        then

entered the room, preceding my excellent friend, who fol

lowed his instructions as perfectly as if he had been repeating

an experiment.

   " Being now quite satisfied with the performance, we
drove off to St. James's. The robes of a Doctor of Laws are

rarely made use of, except at a University Address : con

sequently Dr. Dalton's costume attracted much attention, and

compelled me to gratify the curiosity of many of my friends,

by explaining who he was. The prevailing opinion had been

that he was the Mayor of some corporate town come up to get
Iknighted.
              informed my inquirers, that he was a much

more eminent person than any Mayor of any city, and having

won for himself a name which would survive when orders of

knighthood should be forgotten, he had no ambition to be

Iknighted.                                              ob

   " At a short distance from the Presence-chamber,

served close before me several dignitaries of the church, in
296 THE CHURCH IN DANGER.

the full radiance of their vast lawn sleeves. The Bishop

of Gloucester,* who was nearest, accidentally turning his

Ihead, recognized a face long familiar to me from its

cordiality and kindness. A few words were interchanged

between us, and also by myself with the rest of the party,

Ithe remotest of whom, if remember rightly, was the Arch

bishop of Dublin. The dress of my friend seemed to strike

Ithe Bishop's attention ; but the quiet costume of the Quaker
beneath his scarlet robe was entirely unnoticed.  therefore
Iconfided to the Bishop of Gloucester the fact that had a

Quaker by my side, at the same time assuring him that my

peaceful and philosophic friend was very far from meditating

any injury to the Church. The effect was electric upon the

whole party; episcopal eyes had never yet beheld such a

Ispectacle in such society, and fear, notwithstanding my as

surance, some portion of the establishment thought the Church
really in danger.

  I I" We now entered the Presence-chamber, and having

passed the King, retired very slowly, in order that might

observe events. Doctor Dalton having kissed hands, the

King asked him several questions, all which the philosopher

duly answered, and then moved on in proper order to join

Ime. This reception, however, had not passed with sufficient

rapidity to escape jealousy, for heard one officer say to
another, * Who the d--1 is that fellow whom the King keeps

talking to so long ?'

   " Conversations at Courts are not always thought to be

the most interesting things in the world ; although, doubtless,

they must be so to the parties engaged in them. In the

midst of crowded levees and drawing-rooms, one is often

compelled to become the confidant of strangers around us.

* Dr. Mouk.
INTERESTING CONFIDENCES AT A LEVEE.                297

The amusement derived from this source predominates over
Ithe instruction.
                   have heard much anxious inquiry as to
certain pieces of clerical preferment --who is to have certain

military or colonial commands, and what promotions will
take place from the consequent vacancies ?--many political
Iqueries have been proposed, and how ' the party ' would act
in certain contingent cases?         once heard a gentleman

receive at a levee the first announcement of a legacy; on

Ianother occasion, on my return from the Continent, was

myself informed at a levee of a similarly gratifying, and to

me entirely unexpected, event.
   " Doctor Dalton having now passed through the formal

part of a levee, had a better opportunity of viewing the
details. He inquired the names of several of the portraits,

Iand took the opportunity of pointing out to him many of

the living celebrities.
   " We then returned to Mr. Wood's residence, and the

whole party were highly gratified at the success of the un

dertaking.  I" am, my dear Sir, very truly yours,

                                     " C. Barrage.

" Dorset Street, Manchester Square,
          " February 7, 1854."
               CHAPTER XXIV.

               EXPERIENCE AT COURTS.

The Author invited to a Meeting at Turin of the Philosophers of Italy,
   1840 --The King, Charles Albert -- Reflections on Shyness --Question of
   Dress --Electric Telegraph -- Theory of Storms -- Remark of an Italian
   Friend in the evening at the Opera --Various Instruments taken to the
   Palace, and shown to the young Princes --The Queen being absent --
   The reason why -- The young Princes did great credit to their Governor --
   The General highly gratified -- The Philosopher proposes another difficult

  question -- It is referred to the King himself -- An audience is granted to

  ask the King's permission to present the woven Silk Engraving of
  Jacquard to Her Majesty -- Singular but Comic Scene -- The final Capture
  of the Butterflies-- Visit to Raconigi -- The Vintage.

About a quarter of a century ago the Court of Turin had the

reputation of being the most formal and punctilious of any

in Europe. It was dull to the diplomatic officials, who were

doomed like planets to circulate around                 it,though not with

out interest to the inquiring traveller, whose orbit, like that I

of comet, passed through its atmosphere only at distant
a

      I
intervals.

In 1840 received gratifying invitation to meet the Rite
               a
of the science of Italy at Turin. On my arrival imme
                                    di
diately took measures to pay my respects in the usual man

ner to the sovereign of the country. Having inquired of a

nobleman high in the confidence of the King, when there*

* Conte D. Alessandro Saluzzo di Monesiglio, Grande di Corona, Presid.

della sexiiire dell' intcrno nol consiglio  stato, &c.
THE COURT OF TURIN IN 1840.

Iwould occur a levee, in order that might have the honour

Iof being presented, was informed that his Majesty was

Iaware of my arrival, and would receive me at a private

audience. Two days after had a formal visit from Count

Alessandro Saluzzo to inform me that the King would receive

Ime the next day at two o'clock.
      then made inquiries as to the usual dress, and found that

a court dress was not considered essential on such occasions,
Iespecially for a foreigner, and that might with perfect pro
Ipriety go in plain clothes.
                              was glad to avail myself of this
Ipermission ; but in order to prevent any misapprehension,

drove up to the palace about a quarter of an hour before the

appointed time, and called upon General Cesare de Salluce,*

the governor of the two young princes, the present King of

Italy and the late Duke of Genoa, then respectively about

eighteen and seventeen years of age.

The General kindly offered to accompany me to the ante
Ichamber. In the course of our conversation took an oppor
Itunity of mentioning that, having been informed
                                                  might
Iappear in plain clothes, had thought it most respectful to
Ihis sovereign to wear the same dress had worn a few days
I Ibefore left England, when had the honour of being invited

Ito the first party t given by a subject to my own sovereign.
      had already been informed that the King, Charles Albert,

took a great interest in the success of the meeting ; that he

was a very good man, but remarkably shy ; and that he pro

bably would not detain me more than perhaps five minutes.

  I had myself experienced the misery of that affliction, and

   * Saluzzo di Monesiglio, Car. Cesare, Luogoten, Gen., Gran Mastro
d'Artiglieria et Governatore de Reali Principi, &c. ; the younger brother
of the Count Alexander.

   t The dejeune at Wimbledon Park, the residence of the late Duke of

Somerset.
300 RECEPTION OF THE PHILOSOPHER.

felt how much more painful it must inevitably become when

it fell to the lot of a person placed in the most exalted

rank.

  IOn entering the ante-room found a number of the most

distinguished people of the country waiting for audience,

Ithe king at that time being occupied, as was informed, with

one of his ministers. On his exit the master of the cere

monies announced that his Majesty would receive me.

  I then entered the royal reception-room, and was presented

to the King. He was a remarkably tall person, dressed
in military costume, having a very peculiar expression of

Icountenance, which was at a loss how immediately to in
Iterpret. The King invited me to sit down, and followed his

Majesty to a large bay-window, where we immediately sat

down on two stools opposite to each other.

  IThe King expressed his satisfaction that had come from

so considerable a distance to assist at the councils of the

men of science then assembling in his own capital. Of course

I replied by remarking that the advancement of the sciences

contributed to the material as well as to the intellectual pro

gress of every nation, and that when a sovereign, intimately
convinced of this truth, took measures for the extension and

diffusion of knowledge, it was the duty of all those engaged in
its cultivation respectfully to assist as far as their individual

Icircumstances permitted.
   After a short pause, the King put some question which

do not remember, except that it was one of the conventional

I Itopics of society : perhaps it might have related to my
journey.  now felt that unless could raise some question

of curiosity in his Majesty's mind, to overcome his natural

Ireserve, the interview would soon terminate precisely in the
manner predicted.  therefore, in replying to this question,
THEORY OF STORMS-- ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH.                301

contrived to introduce a remarkable fact relative to the
Ielectric telegraph.
                      soon perceived that it had taken hold

of the King's imagination, and the next question confirmed

my view. " For what purposes," said the King, " will the

electric telegraph become useful ?"

  I must here request the reader to go back in his memory

to the state of our knowledge in 1840, when electricity and

other subjects, now of every-day application, were just com

mencing their then eccentric but now regulated course.

  IThe King put the very question had wished. Carefully
I Iobserving his countenance, felt that was advancing in a

tract in which he was interested. At each pause the proper

question was suggested, and at last I pointed out the proba

bility that, by means of the electric telegraphs, his Majesty's

fleet might receive warning of coming storms. This led to

the new theory of storms, about which the king was very
I Icurious. By degrees endeavoured to make it clear.
                                                      cited,

as an illustration, a storm which had occurred but a short

Itime before left England. The damage done by it at

·Liverpool was very great, and at Glasgow immense. On one

large property in the west coast of Scotland thirty thousand

timber-trees had been thrown down.

  I then explained that by subsequent inquiries it had been

found that this storm arose from the overlapping of two circular

whirlwinds, one of them coming up from the Atlantic bodily

at the rate of twenty miles an hour, the other passing at the

rate of twelve miles an hour, in a north-westerly direction, to

Glasgow, where they coalesced, and destroyed property to the
Ivalue of above half a million sterling.
                                          added that if there

had been electric communication between Genoa and a few

other places the people of Glasgow might have had informa

tion of one of those storms twenty-four hours previously to its
302 THE PHILOSOPHER TROUBLED WITH A CONSCIENCE.

arrival, and could then have taken effective measures for the
security of much of their shipping.

  IDuring this conversation had felt rather uneasy at occupy

ing the king's time so long when several of his own ministers
were waiting in his ante-room for an audience, perhaps upon
important business. Urged by this truly conscientious motive,

I Icommitted a gaucherie of the deepest water -- half rose

from my stool to take leave of his Majesty. The King, as
well he might, lifted up both his hands and then expressed
the greatest interest in the continuance of the subject.

   After a conversation of about five-and-twenty minutes the

IKing rose, and, walking with me to the door, made my bow.

The King then held out his hand.

  IHere might have arisen a puzzling question, what ought
Ito have done ; but previously to the interview had taken

the precaution of inquiring of one of my Sardinian friends
what were the usual forms, and whether it was customary to
kiss hands on being presented to the sovereign. The answer
was in the negative. The ceremony of kissing hands, he
informed me, never took place except when a native subject

was appointed to some very high office.

  I therefore immediately perceived that the King had done

me the honour of adopting the salutation of my own country.

IUnder these circumstances shook hands as an Englishman

does, and then, bowing profoundly, retired.

   In the course of the evening of that day, being at the

Iopera, visited the box of one of my Italian acquaintances.

A great friend of mine, also an Italian, who had been dining

at the palace, came in soon after. He said to me, " What an
" extraordinary person you are ! You have perfectly fascinated
" our King, who has done nothing but talk of you and the
" things you have told him during the whole of dinner-time."
             EXHIBITS VARIOUS INSTRUMENTS.  303

  I Iadmit felt great satisfaction at this announcement of

the complete success of my daring experiment. It assured

me that my unusual deviation from the routine of a Court was

fully justified by. the interest the matter communicated had
awakened in the King's mind.

  I had brought with me to Turin several models and various

instruments connected with science and mechanical art, which
of course had been examined by many of my scientific and
personal friends. Unfortunately, on two occasions, when
General de Salluce, who was much my senior in years, called

Iupon me, happened to be absent from the house. Knowing
Ihow fully his time was occupied by his illustrious pupils,
Imuch regretted that had not been at home when he called,
Iand during one of my visits at the palace offered to bring
Iwith me, on another occasion, some of the things thought

might be most interesting.
   The General could not think of giving me that trouble, and

at first very courteously declined the proposal. But after a

Imoment or two he said, " On second thoughts, will accept
Iyour kind offer, because think it may be useful to my

young pupils."

  IOn the morning proposed drove up to the palace with

some boxes containing the various apparatus, and was imme

diately shown into a large room nearly at the top of the

palace. After opening the boxes and giving the General a

Iglance at the various articles, remarked that several of

them were interesting to ladies, and that possibly the Queen,

if made acquainted with
                 it             might like to accompany her
                           it,
sons in which case would, perhaps, be more convenient for
;

her Majesty  if  they were placed in a lower room of the

palace.               a  happy one the General was much
   The idea appeared            ;
304 THE QUEEN UNABLE TO COME.

pleased at and said he would go immediately and take herit,I
Majesty's pleasure on the subject. After considerable delay

General de Salluce returned, evidently much disappointed,

and said he was commanded by the Queen to thank me for

the attention, and to express her Majesty's regret that she

was prevented by an engagement from accompanying the

young Princes.

   When everything was arranged, and the hour appointed
had arrived, the young Princes, accompanied by, presume,
                                                  aI
various members of the royal household, and their Governor,

arrived. Altogether there might have been about dozen or

fourteen persons of both sexes present.

IIpointed out the use and structure of most of the instru

ments. Some objects belonged to mechanical art, such as

patent locks and tools  ;     few were related to the Fine Arts.

                           a

  The whole party seemed much pleased the young Princes
                                         it ;
particularly took great interest in them, whereat the General
                  Ia                               II

                                                                               a
was highly gratified. Before his young pupils retired, took

the General aside and inquired whether was consistent with

their customs that should present to each of his two pupils

one of the various (but in    Ia   pecuniary sense trifling) articles
which they had examined.            was glad to find that might

be permitted to leave behind me two little souvenirs of

  most agreeable day.
     The whole party, with the exception of General de Salluce,

  had now retired. We walked up and down the room together

  for some time, conversing upon the success of the meeting.

  My excellent friend was justly delighted with the intelligent

  inquiries made  by  his pupils.

    thought now perceived          a  favourable opportunity of

  ascertaining the cause of the Queen's absence.

  After SOme kind expression towards me, suddenly stopped,
                                         I
                  THE REASON EXPLAINED.      305

and, looking inquiringly into his countenance, said, " Now,

General, just before this very agreeable party met you went

to invite the Queen, and you returned and then told me the

official. Now pray do tell me the real."
   The surprise of the General was certainly great, but, with a

most agreeable smile, he immediately consented.

  It appears that its history was thus. The General went to

the Queen's apartments and asked, through her lord-in-wait
ing, to be permitted to see her Majesty. This request was

immediately granted. The General then informed the Queen

that amongst the things her sons were going to see were

several which might, perhaps, interest her Majesty. The

Queen said she would accompany her sons, and then directed

her own lord-in-waiting to go and ask the King's permission.

   Accordingly the Queen's lord-in-waiting went to the King's
apartments, and found that he was sitting in Council. He

proceeded to the ante-room of the Council-chamber, and there

found the King's lord-in-waiting, to whom he communicated

his mission.

   The King's lord-in-waiting then informed the Queen's lord-
in-waiting that important news * had just arrived, and that a

special council had been called ; that of course he was ready

to convey the Queen's message immediately, but he suggested

whether, under these circumstances, the Queen would wish it.

The Queen's lord-in-waiting now returned to her Majesty

for further instructions.

Of course the Queen, like a good wife, at once gave up the

Iintention of accompanying her sons in their interview with
the philosopher.  felt much regret at this disappointment.

IThe Queen of Sardinia was the sister of the Grand Duke of

Tuscany (Leopold H.), from whom had, many years before,

                  * The Syrian question.

                                          X
306 THE WOVEN PORTRAIT.

when under severe affliction from the loss of a large portion

of my family, received the most kind and gratifying attention.
IOn my road to Turin had passed a few days at Lyons, in
Iorder to examine the silk manufacture.
                                                was specially

anxious to see the loom in which that admirable specimen of
Ifine art, the portrait of Jacquard, was woven.
                                                 passed many

hours in watching its progress.

  I possessed one copy, which had been kindly given to

Ime by a friend ; but as had proposed to visit Florence after
Ithe meeting at Turin, wished to procure another copy to

present to the Grand Duke of Tuscany.

   These beautiful productions were not made for sale ; but,

Ias a favour, was allowed to purchase one of them.

Whilst the General was giving me this illustration of Court

etiquette, it occurred to me that the silken engraving would

be an appropriate offering to a lady.

  I therefore again asked my friend whether, consistently
Iwith the usages of the country, might be permitted to offer

the engraving to the Queen.

I IThe sudden change of his countenance from gay to grave
was very remarkable.  feared had proposed something of
Ithe most unusual kind. The General then slowly replied, "

will take the King's pleasure on the subject."

  ITwo days after the General informed me that the King

would give me an audience the next day, in order that

might ask permission to present the woven engraving to the

IQueen.                                 went to the palace
   Accordingly, at the appointed hour,

with the large cartoon-case containing the portrait of Jac

quard.* On being admitted into the presence of the King,

I placed the case upon a sofa, and, opening it carefully, un-

* The dimensions were 2 ft. 8 in. by 2 ft. 2 in.
A PLIGHT OF BUTTERFLIES.                                   307

folded the woven portrait from a crowd of sheets of silver
Ipaper of the most ethereal lightness.
                                        then placed it in his

Majesty's hands. The King examined it minutely on both

sides, inquired about its structure, and appeared much pleased

at the sight.

  I now went over to replace the engraving in its travelling-

carriage. The instant it approached its paper case a multi

tude of sheets of silver paper were disturbed in their snug
Irepose, and forthwith flew up into the air.
                                              made many in

effectual efforts to catch these runaways. The King most

condescendingly came to my assistance, took the portrait out
of my hands, and endeavoured himself to replace it in its

Inest, whilst was attempting to catch the flying covey.

   But these volatile papers had no proper respect even for

royalty. The quires of silver paper which had remained in the

case now came out in all directions, whether to do honour to

the King by rising to receive him, or to recall their flighty

Isisters to their deserted couch know not ; but somehow or

other both the King and myself were on the floor upon our
knees, having secured some few of the fallen angels, whilst
a cloud of others, still on the wing, continually eluded our

Igrasp.

   At last gave up the idea of grabbing at the flying sheets,

and confined my attention to seizing on the fallen ones.

IWhile still on my knees, suddenly felt an obstacle pre
Isented to my right foot. On looking round perceived that

the heel of royalty had come into contact with the toe of

philosophy.

   A comic yet kindly smile beamed upon the countenance of

the King, whilst an irrepressible but not irreverent one,

lightened up my own.              being at last captured,  and
   The whole army of butterflies
                                                     x2
308 THE VINTAGE AT RACONIGI.

the engraving replaced, the King entered into a conversa

tion with me upon various subjects.

I IThe processes of wine-making then became the subject of
conversation.  believe may have observed incidentally in

reply to some question, that my information was only derived

Ifrom books, as had not had an opportunity of seeing any of its

processes. About a week after this, one of the officers of the

household called upon me, and told me that the vintage of

Raconigi, one of the King's beautiful domains, at about a dozen

miles from Turin, would commence in the following week ;

Ithat he was commanded by his Majesty, in case should wish

to examine the processes, to inform me of the circumstance,

and to accompany me for the purpose of explaining them --a

mission, he was so kind as to add, which would personally be

highly gratifying to himself.

  I willingly accepted this most agreeable proposition, and

the day was fixed upon. At an early hour my friend was at

my door in one of the royal carriages. The weather was

magnificent, and we drove through a beautiful country.

On arriving at the vineyard we found several of the pro

cesses in full operation. Each in succession was explained ;

and after spending a most instructive morning, we found au

Iexcellent dinner prepared for us at the palace, where had

the pleasure of meeting General      , who presided, and

Iwho had spent several years in England.
   On our return in the evening observed a dragoon appa

Irently accompanying the carriage. At first took it for

granted that his road happened to be the same as ours ; but

after a mile or two had been passed over, seeing him still
Iclose to us, inquired of my companion if he knew whither
Itthe soldier was going.
                          then appealed that he had been

sent by the General as a complimentary escort.
AUDIENCE TO TAKE LEAVE.                         309

I IHowever gratified felt by this attention, still was quite

uncomfortable at the idea of having a man galloping after
Iour carriage for ten miles.
                              therefore appealed to my

friend to suspend this unnecessary loss of vis viva. With

some reluctance the dragoon was exempted from further

attendance upon the philosopher.

  IShortly before left Turin, one of my Italian friends re

marked, with evident feelings of pride and satisfaction, upon

Ithe attentions had received from his sovereign. " The King,

he observed, has done three things for you, which are very

unusual --
   " He has shaken hands with you.
   " He has asked you to sit down at an audience.
   " He has permitted you to make a present to the Queen.

This last," he added, « is the rarest of all."

ITwo days before my departure from Turin, had an

audience, to take leave of his Majesty. The King inquired in
I Iwhat direction intended to travel homeward.
                                                mentioned

my intention of taking the mail to Geneva, because it traversed

a most remarkable suspension-bridge over a deep ravine.

The span of this bridge, which is named, after the king, Pont

Charles Albert, is six hundred French feet, and the depth of

the chasm over which it is suspended is also six hundred

French feet. The King immediately opened a drawer, and,

taking out a small bronze medal, struck to celebrate the

opening of the bridge, presented it to me.

  I now took the opportunity of expressing to the King my
Igratitude for the many and kind attentions had received from

his subjects, and more especially for the honour he had himself

recently done me by sending one of his ministers officially to

convey to me his Majesty's high approbation of my conduct.
310 THE PONT CHARLES ALBERT.

IThe King then entered upon another course of inquiry,
more immediately connected with his government.    had on

several occasions, when a favourable opportunity presented
itself, drawn the King's attention to the doctrine of free trade

--a subject on which he evidently felt a great desire to be

informed. The questions put to me, though necessary for

Iassisting the King to arrive at right conclusions, were of such

a nature that considered them confidential, and therefore

forbear to relate them.                            I shared

  ITwo days after started by the mail for Geneva.

the Coupe of the Malle Poste with the courier, a very
intelligent officer. On mentioning my wish to see the cele
brated bridge, he informed me that he was already aware of
my wishes, and that he had received orders to detain the mail

Ia quarter of an hour, that might have a good opportunity

of seeing it.

   The scene which presented itself on my approach to the
Pont Charles Albert was singularly grand. We had been

driving for some time along a road skirting the edge of an

immense chasm, six hundred and forty English feet in depth.

The opposite side was hid from our view by a mist which

hung over it. At the next bend in the road a portion of the
bridge suddenly became visible to us. It appeared to spring

from a massive pier on which the chains on our side of the

ravine rested. The bridge itself was nearly level, and was
visible for about three-quarters only of its length as it tra

versed the valley far beneath it. The termination of the

ascending portion of the chains on the further pier, and that

part of the bridge itself, were completely concealed by the

mist. It really seemed like a bridge springing from a lofty

cliff spanning the sea beneath and suspended on the distant
clouds. When we had descended from the mail at the com
ITS MYSTIC SCENERY.  311

mencement, we had directed the postilions to drive slowly
across the bridge, then about a third of a mile distant

from us.

   We were singularly favoured by circumstances. We saw
the carriage which had just left us apparently crossing the
bridge, then penetrating into the clouds, and finally be

coming entirely lost to our view. At the same time the dis

solving mist in our own immediate neighbourhood began to
allow us to perceive the depth of the valley beneath, and at
last even the little wandering brook, which looked like a
thread of silver at its bottom.

   The sun now burst out from behind a range of clouds,
which had obscured it. Its warm rays speedily dissipated the
mist, illuminated the dark gulf at our own side, and discovered
to us the mail on terra firma on the opposite side of the chasm

waiting to convey us to our destination.
   On our arrival at Annecy, my thoughtful companion in

formed me that the mail would wait five-and-forty minutes.

I IHe suggested, as was not in good health, that should imme

diately on my arrival get into bed, whilst he would order tea,

Ior supper, or any refreshment might prefer, and that he

would be answerable for calling me at the proper time to

Ienable me to get comfortably whatever might require, and

be ready to start again with the mail.

  I have frequently attempted to assign in my own mind the
Ireasons of the singularly favourable reception met with from

the King of Sardinia. The reputation arising from the Ana

lytical Engine could scarcely have produced that effect. The

position of a sovereign is a very exceptional one. He is
surrounded by persons each of whom has always one or more

objects to gain. It is scarcely within the limits of possibility
312 ELEMENTS OP MY SUCCESS AT TURIN.

that he can have a real friend, or if he have that rarest

commodity, that he can know the fact.

   A certain amount of distrust must therefore almost always

exist in his mind. But this habitual distrust applies less to

foreigners than to his own subjects. The comet which passes
through the thick atmosphere of a Court may be temporarily
disturbed in its path though it may never revisit it again.

   Perhaps the first element of my success was, that having

Ibeen the victim of shyness in early life, could sympathise

with those who still suffered under that painful complaint.
IAnother reason may have been, that never stated more
Ithan really knew. This
                       ;      believe, very unusual practice
                                it
                          is,I
                                     a
in Courts of every kind and when happens to be obviously

Isincere, commands great influence.
        it
   There might be yet another reason -- was well known
that had nothing to ask for--to expect --or to desire.
                                :

                                    it
                          CHAPTEE XXV.

                                             KAILWAYS.

Opening of Manchester and Liverpool Railway -- Death of Mr. Huskisson
    -- Plate-glass Manufactory -- Mode of separating Engine from Train --
    Broad-gauge Question-- Experimental Carriage-- Measure the Force of
    Traction, the Vertical, Lateral, and End Shake of Carriage, also its
   Velocity by Chronometer -- Fortunate Escape from meeting on the same
   Line Brunel on another Engine -- Sailed across the Hanwell Viaduct in a
   Waggon without Steam -- Meeting of British Association at Newcastle --
   George Stephenson -- Dr. Lardner --Suggestions for greater Safety on Bail-
   roads --George Stephenson's Opinion of the Gauges --Kailways at National
    Exhibitions.

IAt the commencement of the railway system naturally

took a great interest in the subject, from its bearings upon
mechanism as well as upon political economy.

  I accompanied Mr. Woolryche Whitmore, the member

for Bridgenorth, to Liverpool, at the opening of the Man
chester and Liverpool Eailway. The morning previous to
the opening, we met Mr. Huskisson at the Exchange, and my
friend introduced me to him. The next day the numerous

trains started with their heavy load of travellers. All went

on pleasantly until we reached Parkside, near Newton.
During the time the engines which drew us were taking in
their water and their fuel, many of the passengers got out and
recognized their friends in other trains.

   At a certain signal all resumed their seats ; but we had
314 FATAL ACCIDENT TO MB. HUSKISSON.

not proceeded a mile before the whole of our trains came to a
stand-still without any ostensible cause. After some time

spent in various conjectures, a single engine almost flew past
us on the other line of rail, drawing with it the ornamental

car which the Duke of Wellington and other officials had so

recently occupied. Instead of its former numerous company
it appeared to convey only two, or at most three, persons ; but

the rapidity of its flight prevented any close observation of

the passengers.

  A certain amount of alarm now began to pervade the

trains, and various conjectures were afloat of some serious

accident. After a while Mr. Whitmore and myself got out

of our carriage and hastened back towards the halting place.
At a little distance before us, in the middle of the railway,
stood the Duke of Wellington, Sir Robert Peel, and the

Boroughreeve of Manchester, discussing the course to be

Ipursued in consequence of the dreadful accident which had

befallen Mr. Huskisson, whom had seen but a few minutes

before standing at the door of the carriage conversing with
the Duke of Wellington. The Duke was anxious that the

whole party should return to Liverpool ; but the chief officer

of Manchester pressed upon them the necessity of continuing

the journey, stating that if it were given up he could not be

answerable for the safety of the town.

  It was at last mournfully resolved to continue our course

to Manchester, where a luncheon had been prepared for us ;
but to give up all the ceremonial, and to return as soon as we

could to Liverpool.

For several miles before we reached our destination the

Isides of the railroad were crowded by a highly-excited popu
lace shouting and yelling.  feared each moment that some

still greater sacrifice of life might occur from the people
GREAT DELAY-- RUMOURS OP DISASTER.  315

madly attempting to stop by their feeble arms the momentum

of our enormous trains.

   Having rapidly taken what refreshment was necessary,
we waited with anxiety for our trains ; but hour after hour
passed away before they were able to start. The cause of
this delay arose thus. The Duke of Wellington was the
guest of the Earl of Wilton, the nearest station to whose
residence was almost half way between Manchester and

Liverpool. A train therefore was ordered to convey the

party to Heaton House. Unfortunately, our engines had
necessarily gone a considerable distance upon that line to get
their supply of water, and were thus cut off by the train con
veying the Duke, from returning direct to Manchester.

    There were not yet at this early period of railway history
any sidings to allow of a passage, or any crossing to enable
the engines to get upon the other line of rails. Under these
circumstances the drivers took the shortest course open to
them. Having taken in their water, they pushed on as fast
as they could to a crossing at a short distance from Liverpool.
They backed into the other line of rail, and thus returned to
Manchester to pick up their trains.

   In the meantime the vague rumour of some great disaster

had reached Liverpool. Thousands of persons, many of
whom had friends and relatives in the excursion trains,

were congregated on the bridges and at the railway station,
anxious to learn news of their friends and relatives.

   About five o'clock in the evening they perceived at a

distance half-a-dozen engines without any carriages, rushing

furiously towards them -- suddenly checking their speed--then
backing into the other line of rail --again flying away towards
Manchester, without giving any signs or explanation of the
mystery in which many of them were so deeply interested.
316 PLATE-GLASS MANUFACTORY.

It is difficult to estimate the amount of anxiety and misery

which was thus unwillingly hut inevitably caused amongst
all those who had friends, connections, or relatives in the

missing trains.

When these engines returned to Manchester, our trains

were unfortunately connected together, and three engines
were attached to the front of each group of three trains.

   This arrangement considerably diminished their joint
power of traction. But another source of delay arose : the

couplings which were strong enough when connecting an
engine and its train were not sufficiently strong when three

engines were coupled together. The consequence was that
there were frequent fractures of our couplings and thus great

delays arose.

  IAbout half-past eight in the evening reached the great

building in which we were to have dined. Its tables were

half filled with separate groups of three or four people each,
who being strangers in Liverpool, had no other resource than
to use i* as a kind of coffee-room in which to get a hasty

meal, and retire.
IThe next morning
                   went over to see the plate-glass

manufactory at about ten miles from Liverpool.

  IOn my arrival found, to my great disappointment, that

there were orders that nobody should be admitted on that
day, as the Duke of Wellington and a large party were
coming over from Lord Wilton's. This was the only day at
my disposal, and it wanted nearly an hour to the time ap

Ipointed : so asked to be permitted to see the works, pro

mising to retire as soon as the Earl of Wilton's party arrived.

I Iadded incidentally that was not entirely unknown to the

Duke of Wellington.

  IOn the arrival of the party quietly made my retreat un
           ON PREVENTING RAILWAY ACCIDENTS.     317

observed, and had just entered the carriage which had conveyed

I Ime from Liverpool, when a messenger arrived with the Duke's
compliments, hoping that would join his party.  willingly

accepted the invitation ; the Duke presented me to each of

Ihis friends, and had the advantage of having another sur

vey of the works. This was my first acquaintance with the
late Lady Wilton, who afterwards called on me with the

IDuke of Wellington, and put that sagacious question relative

to the Difference Engine which have mentioned in another

part of this volume. Amongst the party were Mr. and Mrs.

IArbuthnot, with the former of whom afterwards had several

interesting discussions relative to subjects connected with

the ninth " Bridgewater Treatise."

  IA few days after, met at dinner a large party at the

house of one of the great Liverpool merchants. Amongst

them were several officers of the new railway, and almost all

the party were more or less interested in its success.

   In these circumstances the conversation very naturally

turned upon the new mode of locomotion. Its various diffi

culties and dangers were suggested and discussed. Amongst
others, it was observed that obstacles might be placed tipon

the rail, either accidentally or by design, which might pro

duce expensive and fatal effects.

  ITo prevent the occurrence of these evils, suggested two

remedies.

1st. That every engine should have just in advance of each

of its front wheels a powerful framing, supporting a strong

piece of plate-iron, descending within an inch or two of the

upper face of the rail. These iron plates should be fixed at

an angle of 45° with the line of rail, and also at the same

angle with respect to the horizon. Their shape would be
something like that of ploughshares, and their effect would
318 VARIOUS PLANS PROPOSED.

be to pitch any obstacle obliquely off the rail unless its

heavier portion were between the rails.

   Some time after, a strong vertical bar of iron was placed in
front of the wheels of every engine. The objection to this is,
that it has a tendency to throw the obstacle straight forward
upon another part of the rail.

  I2nd. The second suggestion made, was to place in front of

each engine a strong leather apron attached to a powerful
iron bar, projecting five or six feet in front of the engine and
about a foot above the ballast. The effect of this would be,

that any animal straying over the railway would be pitched
into this apron, probably having its legs broken, but forming

no impediment to the progress of the train.

  I have been informed that this contrivance has been

adopted in America, where the railroads, being unenclosed,
Ifare subject to frequent obstruction from cattle.
                                                    used on

enclosed roads, it still might occasionally save the lives of

incautious persons, although possibly at the expense of broken

limbs.

   Another question discussed at this party was, whether, if
an engine went off the rail, it would be possible to separate it

Ifrom the train before it had dragged the latter after it.

took out my pencil and sketched upon a card a simple method

Iof accomplishing that object. It passed round the table, and

one of the party suggested that should communicate the
plan to the Directors of the railway.

   My answer was, that having a great wish to diminish the

Idangers of this new mode of travelling, declined making
Iany such communication to them ; for, added, unless these
IDirectors are quite unlike all of whom have had any expe
Irience, can foresee the inevitable result of such a communi

cation.
REASONS WHY REJECTED.                         319

It might take me some time and trouble to consider the best

way of carrying out the principle and to make the necessary

Idrawings. Some time after have placed these in the hands

Iof the Company, shall receive a very pretty letter from the

secretary, thanking me in the most flattering terms for the

Ihighly ingenious plan have placed in their hands, but re

gretting that their engineer finds certain practical difficulties

in the way.

   Now, if the same Company had taken the advice of some

eminent engineer, to whom they would have to pay a large
fee, no practical difficulties would ever be found to prevent

its trial.

  It was evident from the remarks of several of the party

Ithat had pointed out the most probable result of any such

communication.

  It is possible that some report of this plan subsequently

Ireached the Directors ; for about six months after, received

from an officer of the railway Company a letter, asking my
Iassistance upon this identical point.
                                        sent them my sketch
Iand all the information had subsequently acquired on the
I Isubject.
received the stereotype reply had anticipated,

couched in the most courteous language ; in short, quite a

model letter for a young secretary to study.

Several better contrivances than mine were subsequently

proposed ; but experience seems to show that the whole train

Iought to be connected together as firmly as possible.
   Not long after my return from Liverpool found myself

seated at dinner next to an elderly gentleman, an eminent

London banker. The new system of railroads, of course, was

the ordinary topic of conversation. Much had been said in

its favour, but my neighbour did not appear to concur with

Ithe majority. At last had an opportunity of asking his
320 THE AUTHOR'S EXPERIMENTS ON

Iopinion. " Ah," said the banker, " don't approve of this

new mode of travelling. It will enable our clerks to plunder

us, and then be off to Liverpool on their way to America at
Ithe rate of twenty miles an hour."
                                     suggested that science

might perhaps remedy this evil, and that possibly we might
send lightning to outstrip the culprit's arrival at Liverpool,

and thus render the railroad a sure means of arresting the
I Ithief.
had at the time uttered those words no idea how

soon they would be realized.

   In 1838 and 1839 a discussion of considerable public

importance had arisen respecting the Great Western Kail-

way. Having an interest in that undertaking, it was the
Iwish of Mr. Brunel and the Directors that should state my
I Iown opinion upon the question.
                       felt that could not speak

with confidence without making certain experiments. The

Directors therefore lent me steam-power, and a second-class

carriage to fit up with machinery of my own contrivance, and

appointed one of their officers to accompany me, through

I Iwhom might give such directions as deemed necessary

during my experiments.

  I removed the whole of the internal parts of the carriage.

Through its bottom firm supports, fixed upon the framework

below, passed up into the body of the carriage, and supported
a long table entirely independent of its motions.

On this table slowly rolled sheets of paper, each a thousand

feet long. Several inking pens traced curves on this paper,

which expressed the following measures :--

1. Force of traction.

2. Vertical shake of carriage at its middle.

3. Lateral ditto.

4. End ditto.

5. 6, and 7. The same shakes at the end of the carriage.
           THE GREAT WESTERN RAILWAY.               321

8. The curve described upon the earth by the centre of

        the frame of the carriage.

9. A chronometer marked half seconds on the paper.

Above two miles of paper were thus covered. These expe

riments cost me about 300/., and took up my own time,

Iand that of all the people was then employing, during five

months.

  I had previously travelled over most of the railways then

existing in this country, in order to make notes of such facts

Ias could observe during my journeys.

   The result of my experiments convinced me that the broad

gauge was most convenient and safest for the public. It also

enabled me fearlessly to assert that an immense array of

experiments which were exhibited round the walls of the

meeting-room by those who opposed the Directors were made

with an instrument which could not possibly measure the

quantities proposed, and that the whole of them were worth

less for the present argument. The production of the work
of such an instrument could not fail to damage even a good

cause.

   On the discussion at the general meeting at the London

ITavern, made a statement of my own views, which was

admitted at the time to have had considerable influence on
                                  IMany years after met
the decision of the proprietors.

a gentleman who told me he and a few other proprietors

holding several thousand proxies came up from Liverpool

intending to vote according to the weight of the arguments

adduced. He informed me that he and all his friends decided
their votes on hearing my statement. He then added, " But

for that speech, the broad gauge would not now exist in

England."

These experiments were not unaccompanied with danger.
322 THE PHILOSOPHER'S ADVENTURES

I sometimes attached my carriage to a public train to convey
Ime to the point whore my experiments commenced, and

had frequently to interrupt their course, in order to run on to
a siding to avoid a coming train.

  I then asked to be allowed to make such experiments

during the night when there were no trains ; but Brunel told
me it was too dangerous to be permitted, and that ballast-

waggons, and others, carrying machinery and materials for
the construction and completion of the railroad itself, were
continually traversing various parts of the line at uncertain
hours.

   The soundness of this advice became evident a very short
time after it was given. On arriving one morning at the
terminus, the engine which had been promised for my ex
perimental train was not ready, but another was provided

Iinstead. On further inquiry, found that the " North Star,"

the finest engine the Company then possessed, had been
placed at the end of the great polygonal building devoted to
engines, in order that it might be ready for my service in the
morning ; but that, during the night, a train of twenty-five
empty ballast-waggons, each containing two men, driven by
an engine, both the driver and stoker of which were asleep,
had passed right through the engine-house and damaged the

" North Star."

    Most fortunately, no accident happened to the men beyond

a severe shaking. It ought, however, in extenuation of such

neglect, to be observed that engine-drivers were at that
period so few, and so thoroughly overworked, that such an
occurrence was not surprising.

  It then occurred to me, that being engaged on a work

which was anything but profitable to myself, but which con

Itributed to the safety of all travellers, might, without im
                                    *

              AND ESCAPES BY RAIL.                  323

Ipropriety, avail myself of the repose of Sunday for advancing
my measures.  therefore desired Brunel to ask for the

Directors' permission. The next time I saw Brunel, he told

me the Directors did not like to give an official permission,
but it was remarked that having put one of their own officers

Iunder my orders, had already the power of travelling on
Iwhatever day preferred.

  I accordingly availed myself of the day on which, at that

time, scarcely a single train or engine would be in motion

upon it.

Upon one of these Sundays, which were, in fact, the only
Ireally safe days, had proposed to investigate the effect of
Iconsiderable additional weight. With this object,
                                                    had

ordered three waggons laden with thirty tons of iron to be

attached to my experimental carriage.
   On my arrival at the terminus a few minutes before the

time appointed, my aide-de-camp informed me that we were
to travel on the north line. As this was an invasion of the

Iusual regulations, inquired very minutely into the authority
Ion which it rested. Being satisfied on this point, desired

him to order my train out immediately. He returned shortly

with the news that the fireman had neglected his duty, but that

the engine would be ready in less than a quarter of an hour.

   A messenger arrived soon after to inform me that the ob

Istructions had been removed, and that could now pass upon

the south, which was the proper line.

  I was looking at the departure of the only Sunday train,

and conversing with the officer, who took much pains to
assure me that there was no danger on whichever line we

might travel ; because, he observed, when that train had de

parted, there can be no engine except our own on either line
until five o'clock in the evening.

                                       Y2
   324 ESCAPES MEETING BRUNEL.

   Whilst we were conversing together, my ear, which had

   Ibecome peculiarly sensitive to the distant sound of an engine,
   told me that one was approaching.                            mentioned it to my
   railway official : he did not hear and said, " Sir,
           is                                                                                 impos
                                                                                            said, " an
                            it

                                     is
                                            a

                                                   it,

                                                I it
                                                                                          is
   sible."--" Whether  possible or impossible,"

   engine coming, and in few minutes we shall see its steam."

   The sound soon became evident to both, and our eyes were

   anxiously directed to the expected quarter. The white cloud

   of steam now faintly appeared in the distance                                            soon per
                                                                ;I
                                                                   I

                                                                              it
   ceived the line occupied, and then turned to watch my
                    it
                                             a
                                                       is,
   companion's countenance. In few moments more saw
   "Itslightly change, and he said,
                                                            indeed, on the north

   line."

   Knowing that would stop at the engine-house, ran as
                    it                                          I

                             I

                                                             a
   fast could to that spot.  found single engine, from
   I

   which Brunel, covered with smoke and blacks, had just de

   scended. We shook hands, and inquired what brought my
                       a

                                I
   friend here in such plight. Brunel told me that he had

   posted from Bristol, to meet the only train at the furthest

   point of the rail then open, but had missed it." Fortunately,
   he said, " found this engine with its fire up, so ordered
   II                  it
         I
                                              I
                                                    I

                                                                             it
   out, and have driven the whole way up at the rate of fifty

   miles an hour."

   then told him that but for the merest accident should

   have met him on the same line at the rate of forty miles, and

   that had attached to my engine my experimental carriage,

   and three waggons with thirty tons of iron.                  then inquired
                       a
                                    a

                                          if

                                          I
   what course he would have pursued                            he had perceived

   another engine meeting him upon his own line.

   Brunel said, in such case he should have put on all the

   steam he could command, with view of driving off the oppo

   site engine by the superior velocity of his own.

^

                                                                                                        A
                        SAILS ACROSS HANWELL VIADUCT.  325

If the concussion had occurred, the probability
                                            I          that
                                                            is,
Brunel's engine would have been knocked off the rail by the
                                                                 it
superior momentum of my train, and that my experimental

carriage would have been buried under the iron contained in

the waggons behind.

These rates of travelling were then unusual, but have now

become common. The greatest speed which have person

ally witnessed, occurred on the return of a train from
Bristol, on the occasion of the floating of the " Great Britain."

was in compartment, in conversation with three eminent
I

                    :a
engineers, when one of them remarked the unusual speed of

the train my neighbour on my left took out his watch, and

noted the time of passage of the distance posts, whence

appeared that we were then travelling at the rate of seventy-

eight miles an hour. The train was evidently on an incline,

and we did not long sustain that dangerous velocity.

One very cold day found Dr. Lardner making experi
                            aI
ments on the Great Western Railway. Ho was drawing a

series of trucks with an engine travelling at known velocities.

At certain intervals,         truck was detached from his train.

The time occupied by this truck before came to rest was
the object to be noted. As Dr. Lardner was short of assist
ants, and my son offered to get into one of his trucks and
I                                           it
note for him the time of coming to rest.
                         ;                       I
                                                        I

                                                            I
Our truck having been detached, came to rest, and had
                                    a

                                        it
noted the time. After waiting few minutes, thought

perceived a slight motion, which continued, though slowly. It

then occurred to me that this must arise from the effect of

the wind, which was blowing strongly. On my way to the

station, feeling very cold, had purchased three yards of coarse
blue woollen cloth, which wound round my person. This
                            it I I                       I

now unwound we held up as sail, and gradually acquiring
                                    a
326 THE BATTLE OF THE GAUGES.

greater velocity, finally reached and sailed across the whole
of the Hanwell viaduct at a very fair pace.

   The question of the best gauge for a system of railways is

yet undecided. The present gauge of 4-8J was the result of
the accident that certain tram-roads adjacent to mines were

of that width. When the wide gauge of the Great Western

was suggested and carried out, there arose violent party

movements for and against it. At the meeting of the British

Association at Newcastle, in 1838, there were two sources of
anxiety to the Council -- the discussion of the question of

Steam Navigation to America, and what was called "The

battles of the Gauges." Both these questions bore very

strongly upon pecuniary interests, and were expected to be

fiercely contested.

On the Council of the British Association, of course, the

duty of nominating the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of its

various sections devolves. During the period in which 1
took an active part in that body, it was always a principle, of

Iwhich was ever the warm advocate, that we should select

those officers from amongst the persons most distinguished

for their eminence in their respective subjects, who were

born in or connected with the district we visited.
IIn pursuance of this principle,
                                  was deputed by the

Council to invite Mr. George Stephenson to become the Pre

sident of the Mechanical Section. In case he should decline

iIt,

               it
                                         ;

                                I it

                                                           it

                                                 I
was then empowered to offer to Mr. Buddle, the emi

nent coal-viewer and in case of these both declining, was

to propose to the late Mr. Bryan Donkin, of London, a
native of that district, and connected with by family ties.

On my arrival at Newcastle,  immediately called on

George Stephenson, and represented to him the unanimous

wish of the Council of the British Association. To my great
         BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT NEWCASTLE.                    327

Isurprise, and to my still greater regret, found that he at

once declined the offer. All my powers of persuasion were

exercised in vain. Knowing that the two great controverted

questions to be discussed most probably formed the real
I Iobstacle, mentioned them, and added that, as should be
Ione of his Vice-Presidents, would, if he wished
                                                  I it,       take the

Chair upon either or upon both the discussions of the Gauges

and of the Atlantic Steam Voyage, or upon any other occasion

that might be agreeable or convenient to himself:             found

him immoveable in Ins decision.  made another attempt the
                                 :I I
next day, and renewed the expression of my own strong

feeling, that we should pay respect and honour to the most

distinguished men of the district we visited.  then told him
                                               I

                                                           1
the course was instructed by the Council to pursue.
         II
                    I
My next step was to apply to Mr. Buddie.                      need not

repeat the arguments employed        was equally unsuccessful

with each of the eminent men the Council had wished to

honour.  therefore now went back to George Stephenson,

told him of the failure of my efforts, and asked him, he
                                       a

                                                      ;

                                                 I if
                                                      I
still persisted in declining the Chair, would he do me
the favour to be one of the Vice-Presidents, as the Council

had now no resource but to place me in the Chair, which

had hoped would have been occupied by more competent

person.
   To this latter application he kindly acceded and felt

that, with the assistance of George Stephenson's and Mr.

Donkin's professional knowledge, and their presence by my
side, should be able to keep order in these dreaded dis
I
      I

                             a
cussions.                                                     :I

   The day before the great discussion upon Atlantic Steam          ;
Navigation, had short conversation with Dr. Lardner
told him that in my opinion some of his views were hasty
328 RAILWAY DISCUSSION.

but that much stronger opinions had been assigned to him

Ithan those he had really expressed, and recommended him

to admit as much as he fairly could.

   At the appointed hour the room was filled with an ex
pectant and rather angry audience. Dr. Lardner's beautiful

apparatus for illustrating his views was before them, and the
Doctor commenced his statement. He was listened to with

the greatest attention, and was really most judicious as well as
very instructive. At the very moment which seemed to me
the most favourable for he turned to the explanation of the

instruments he proposed to employ, and having concluded his
statement, became my duty to invite discussion upon the
I

              it
                                    it,
question.
       did so in very few words, merely observing that several

opinions had been attributed to Dr. Lardner which he had
never maintained, and that additional information had induced

him candidly to admit that some of those doctrines which he

had supported were erroneous.            added, that nothing was
                                         I

                                                  :

                                                 it

                                                           a;
                                                                               a
more injurious to the progress of truth than to reproach any

man who honestly admitted that he had been in error.

The discussion then commenced            was continued with

considerable energy, but with great temper and after long

and instructive debate the assembled multitude separated.

Some few who attended in expectation of scene were sorely

disappointed. As was passing out, one of my acquaintance
a

    I
       I

               II
remarked, "You have saved that           Lardner:" to
which replied, " have saved the British Association from

scandal."

   Before terminate this Chapter on Railways, will perhaps
be expected by some of my readers that should point out

such measures as occur to me for rendering this universal
system more safe. Since the long series of experiments
                                         I

                                                 it

                                                         I
MEANS OF SAFETY FOR TRAINS.                                                      329

Imade in 1839, have had no experience either official or

professional upon the subject. My opinions, therefore, must

Ibe taken only at what they are worth, and will probably be
regarded as the dreams of an amateur.                                 have indeed formed

very decided opinions upon certain measures relative to rail

roads ; but my hesitation to make them public arises from

Ithe circumstance, that by publishing them may possibly

delay their adoption. It may happen, as is now happening

to my system of distinguishing lighthouses from each other,

and of night telegraphic communication between ships at sea
-- that although officially communicated to all the great mari

time governments, and even publicly exhibited for months
during the Exhibition of 1851, it will be allowed to go to

sleep for years, until some official person, casually hearing of

I it,                                                               shall have interest with the
          I

                                   a

                                it

                                                     it,
                                                                   a
or perhaps re-inventing

higher powers to get quietly adopted as his own invention.

have given, in former page, list of the self-registering

apparatus employed in my own experiments.

   In studying the evidence given upon the inquiries into the

various lamentable accidents which have occurred upon rail

I

                                                   by
ways, have been much struck                                           the discordance of that

evidence as to the speed with which the engines were travel

ling when they took place.

Even the best and most unbiassed judgment ought not to

le trusted when mechanical evidence can be produced.                             The

first rule propose   that --
of

  I
      of I

                    a
                                      is,

                                                                        a
                                                                              a

                                            I
Every engine should have mechanical self-registering means

recording its own velocity at every instant during the whole

course its journey.

In my own experiments this was the first point attended

to. took powerful spring clock, with chronometer move

ment, which every half second lifted peculiar pen, and left
330 SELF-RECORDING MEANS.

a small dot of ink upon the paper, which was moving over a
table with the velocity given to it by the wheels of the car

riage.

Thus the comparative frequency of these dots indicated the

rate of travelling at the time. But the instrument was sus

ceptible of giving different scales of measurement. Thus it

might be that only three inches of paper passed under the

pen in every mile, or any greater length of paper, up to sixty

feet per mile, might be ordered to pass under the paper

during an equal space. Again, the number of dots per

second could, if required, be altered.

The clock was broken four or five times during the earliest

Iexperiments. This arose from its being fixed upon the plat
form carrying the axles of the wheels.  then contrived a
Ikind of parallel motion, by which was enabled to support

the clock upon the carriage-springs, and yet allow it to im

press its dots upon the paper, which did not require that

advantage. After this, the clock was never injured.

   The power of regulating the length of paper for each mile
was of great importance ; it enabled me to examine, almost
microscopically, the junctions of the rails. When a large
scale of paper was allowed, every joining was marked upon

the paper.

  I find, on referring to my paper records, that on the

3rd March, 1839, the "Atlas" engine drew my experimental

                   ;

                                                          it,
carriage, with two other carriages attached behind             from

Maidenhead to Drayton, with its paper travelling only eleven

feet for each mile of journey whilst from Drayton to Slough,

forty-four feet of paper passed under the pen during each

mile of progress.

The inking pens at first gave me some trouble, but after

successively discovering their various defects, and remedying
            THEIR REMARKABLE EFFECT.  331

them at an expense of nearly £20, they performed their

work satisfactorily. The information they gave might be

fully relied upon.

We had an excellent illustration of this on one occasion

when we were returning, late in the evening, from Maiden

head, after a hard day's work. The pitchy darkness of the

night, which prevented us from seeing any objects external to

our carriage, was strongly contrasted with the bright light of
Ifour argand lamps within it.
                               was accompanied by my

eldest son, Mr. Herschel Babbage, and three assistants. A

roll of paper a thousand feet in length was slowly unwinding

itself upon the long table extended before us, and winding

itself up on a corresponding roller at its other extremity.

About a dozen pens connected with a bridge crossing the

middle of the table were each marking its own independent

curve gradually or by jumps, as the circumstances attending
our railway course was dictating. The self-feeding pens, which
the self-acting roller of blotting-paper continually followed, but

never overtook, were quietly marking their inevitable courses.

All had gone on well for a considerable time amidst perfect
silence, if the steady pace of thirty miles an hour, the dogged

automatic action of the material, and the muteness of the

living machinery, admitted of such a term. Being myself

Ientirely ignorant of our position upon the rail, disturbed

this busy repose by inquiring whether any one knew where

we were? To this question there was no reply. Each con

tinued to watch in silence for the duties which his own de

partment might at any moment require, but no such demands

were made.
IAfter some minutes, as was watching the lengthening
Icurves, perceived a slight indication of our position on the
Irailroad.
            instantly looked at my son, and saw, by a faint
332 TRACTIVE POWER REGISTERED.

smile on his countenance, that he also perceived our situation
Ion the line.
               had scarcely glanced back at the growing

curves upon the paper, to confirm my interpretation, when

each of my three assistants at the same instant culled out
" Thames Junction."

  IAt the period speak of the double line of a small railway,

called the Thames Junction, crossed the Great Western line

on a level at between two and three miles from its terminus.

The interruption caused certain jerks in several of our curves,

which, having once noticed, it was impossible to mistake.

  I would suggest that every engine should carry a spring

clock, marking small equal intervals of time by means of a

needle-point impinging upon paper, the speed of whose

transit should be regulated by the speed of the engine. It

might, perhaps, be desirable to have a differently-formed
mark to indicate each five minutes. Also, two or more studs

on the driving-wheel should mark upon the same paper the
number of its revolutions. Besides this, it might be im

perative on the engine-driver to mark upon the paper a dot

upon passing each of certain prescribed points upon the rail

way. This latter is not absolutely necessary, but may occa

sionally supply very valuable information.        is,  that --

  IThe second point which consider of importance

Between every engine and its train there should he interposed

         by
                               is,
                                  a
a dynamometer, thai                  powerful spring to measure the force

exerted  the engine.

It may, perhaps, be objected that this would require a

certain amount of movement between the engine and its

train. A very small quantity would be sufficient, say half

an inch, or less. The forces in action are so very large, that

even still smaller amount of motion than this might be
a

sufficiently magnified. Its indications should be marked by
                  CURVE OF PROGRESS REGISTERED.             333

self-acting machinery governing points impinging upon the

paper on which the velocity is marked.

    Whenever any unusual resistance has opposed the progress

of the train, it will thus be marked upon the paper. It will

indicate in some measure the state of the road, and it will

assuredly furnish valuable information in case an accident
happens, and the train or the engine gets off the rails.

  IThe third recommendation have to make is--

   That the curve described by the centre of the engine itself upon

Ithe plane of the railway should be laid down upon the paper.
   Finding this a very important element, caused a plate of

hardened steel to be pressed by a strong spring against the inner

edge of the rail. It was supported by a hinge upon a strong

piece of timber descending from the platform supporting the
carriage itself. The motion of this piece of steel, arising from
the varying position of the wheels themselves upon the rail,

was conveyed to a pen which transferred to the paper the
curve traversed by the centre of the carriage referred to the

plane of the rail itself.
   The contrivance and management of this portion of my

apparatus was certainly the most difficult part of my task,
Iand probably the most dangerous.
                                        had several friendly
Icautions, but knew the danger, and having examined its

various causes, adopted means of counteracting its effect.

After a few trials we found out how to manage    it,        and

                  often broke four or five times in the course of
although  it

                 it,
the day's work, the fracture inevitably occurred at the place

intended for          and my first notice of the fact often arose

from the blow the fragment made when suddenly drawn

by a strong rope up to the under side of the floor of our

experimental carriage.
       have very strong opinion that the adoption of such
I

               a
334 GEORGE STEPHENSON'S REAL OPINION

mechanical registrations would add greatly to the security of

railway travelling, because they would become the unerring

record of facts, the incorruptible witnesses of the immediate

antecedents of any catastrophe.

  I have, however, little expectation of their adoption, unless

Directors can be convinced that the knowledge derived from

them would, by pointing out incipient defects, and by acting

as a check upon the vigilance of all their officers, consider

ably diminish the repairs and working expenses both of the

Iengine and of the rail. Nor should be much surprised even

if they were pronounced impracticable, although they existed

very nearly a quarter of a century ago.

   The question of the gauges has long been settled. A small

portion of broad gauge exists, but it is probable that it will

ultimately be changed. The vast expense of converting the

engines and the rolling stock for use on the narrower gauge

presents the greatest obstacle.

  It may, however, be interesting to learn the opinion of

the father of railways at an early period of their progress.

I have already mentioned the circumstances under which

my acquaintance with George Stephenson began. They

were favourable to that mutual confidence which immediately
Iarose.
         was naturally anxious to ascertain the effect of the
Iexisting experience upon his own mind, but waited patiently

until a favourable opportunity presented itself.

   At a large public dinner, during the meeting of the British

IAssociation at Newcastle, sat next to George Stephenson.

It occurred to me that the desired opportunity had now
Iarrived.
           said little about railways until after the first glass
               I1 mentioned several that had travelled
of champagne.
Iupon, and the conclusions
Imechanical department.     had drawn relative to the

                         then referred to the economy of
ON THE QUESTION OF THE GAUGES.                   335

management, and pointed out one railway in which the

Iaccounts were so well arranged, that had been able to
Iarrive at a testing point of an opinion had formed from

my own observations.

One great evil of the narrow gauge was, that when some

trifling derangement in the engine occurred, which might be

repaired at the expense of two or three shillings, it fre

quently became necessary to remove uninjured portions of

the machine, in order to get at the fault ; that the re-making

the joints and replacing these parts thus temporarily removed,

frequently led to an expense of several pounds.

The second glass of champagne now interrupted a conver
Isation which was, hope, equally agreeable to both, and was
Icertainly very instructive for me.
                                     felt that the fairest
Iopportunity could desire of ascertaining my friend's real

opinion of the gauge had now arrived. Availing myself of

the momentary pause after George Stephenson's glass was

Iempty, said --
   " Now, Mr. Stephenson, will you allow me to ask you to

suppose for an instant that no railways whatever existed, and
yet that you were in full possession of all that large amount

of knowledge which you have derived from your own ex

perience. Under such circumstances, if you were consulted

Jrespecting the gauge of a system of railways about to be

inaugurated, would you advise the gauge of 4 feet 8 inches?"
   " Not exactly that gauge," replied the creator of railroads ;

I" would take a few inches more, but a very few."
  I Iwas quite satisfied with this admission, though confess

it reminded me of the frail fair one who, when reproached by
her immaculate friend with having had a child -- an ecclesi

astical licence not being first obtained -- urged, as an

extenuating circumstance, that it was a very small one.
336 RAILWAYS OF THE FUTURE.

   In this age of invention, it is difficult to predict the rail

roads of the future. Already it has been suggested to give up
wheels and put carriages upon sledges. This would lower the
centre of gravity considerably, and save the expense of wheels.
On the other hand, every carriage must have an apparatus to
clean and grease the rails, and the wear and tear of these
latter might overbalance the economy arising from abolishing

wheels.

    Again, short and much-frequented railways might be

formed of a broad, continuous strap, always rolling on. At

each station means must exist for taking up and putting down
the passengers without stopping the rolling strap.

    The exhaustion of air in a continuous tunnel was proposed
many years ago for the purpose of sucking the trains along.
 This has recently been applied with success to the transmis
 sion of parcels and letters.

    Possibly in the next International Exhibition a light railway
 might be employed within the building.*

    1st. A quick train to enable visitors to get rapidly from

 end to end, avoiding the crowd and saving time, say at the
 expense of a penny.

    2nd. A very slow train passing along the most attractive

 line, and occasionally stopping, to enable persons not capable
 of bearing the fatigue of pushing on foot through crowds.

   If such railways were considered in the original design of

 the building, they might be made to interfere but little with
 the general public, and would bring in a considerable revenue

 to the concern.

    * A gallery, elevated about seven feet, in the centre of each division of

  the new National Gallery, might be used either for a light railway, or for
  additional means of seeing the pictures on the walls.
           CHAPTER XXVI.

           STREET NUISANCES.

Various Classes injured --Instruments of Torture -- Encouragers ; Servants,
   Beer-shops, Children, Ladies of elastic virtue -- Effects on the Musical
   Profession -- Retaliation -- Police themselves disturbed --Invalids dis
   tracted -- Horses run away -- Children run over -- A Cab-stand placed in
   the Author's street attracts Organs -- Mobs shouting out his Name --
   Threats to Burn his House--Disturbed in the middle of the night when
   very ill --An average number of Persons are always ill -- Hence always
   disturbed -- Abusive Placards -- Great Difficulty of getting Convictions --
   Got a Case for the Queen's Bench -- Found it useless --A Dead Sell --
   Another Illustration --Musicians give False Name and Address --Get
   Warrant for Apprehension -- They keep out of the way--Offenders not
   yet found and arrested by the Police --Legitimate Use of Highways --
   An Old Lawyer's Letter to The Times -- Proposed Remedies; Forbid
   entirely -- Authorize Police to seize the Instrument and take it to the
   Station --An Association for Prevention of Street Music proposed.

During the last ten years, the amount of street music has
so greatly increased that it has now become a positive

nuisance to a very considerable portion of the inhabitants of

London. It robs the industrious man of his time ; it annoys

the musical man by its intolerable badness ; it irritates the

invalid ; deprives the patient, who at great inconvenience
has visited London for the best medical advice, of that repose

which, under such circumstances, is essential for his recovery,
and it destroys the time and the energies of all the intellec
tual classes of society by its continual interruptions of then-

pursuits.

                              z
               STREET NUISANCES.

Instruments of torture permitted by the Government to be in
           daily and nightly use in the streets of London.

Organs.                     Bagpipes.

Brass bands.                Accordions.

Fiddles.                    Halfpenny whistles.

Harps.                      Tom-toms.

Harpsichords.               Trumpets.

Hurdy-gurdies. The human Shouting out objects for sale.

Flageolets     voice in < Religious canting.

Drums.         various forms. Psalm-singing.

I have very frequently been disturbed by such music after

eleven and even after twelve o'clock at night. Upon one

occasion a brass band played, with but few and short inter

missions, for five hours.

               Encouragers of Street Music.

Tavern-keepers.             Ladies of doubtful virtue.
Public-houses.
                            Occasionally titled ladies ;
Gin-shops.                     but these are almost in
Beer-shops.                    variably of recent eleva-
Coffee-shops.                  vation, and deficient in
Servants.                      that taste which their sex
Children.                      usually possess.
Visitors from the country.

   The habit of frequenting public-houses, and the amount of

intoxication, is much augmented by these means. It there

fore finds support from the whole body of licensed victuallers,
and from all those who are interested, as the proprietors of

public-houses.
   The great encouragers of street music belong chiefly to the

lower classes of society. Of these, the frequenters of public-
houses and beer-shops patronize the worst and the most
          STREET NUISANCES.  339

noisy kinds of music. The proprietors of such establishments
find it a very successful means of attracting customers.
Music is kept up for a longer time, and at later hours, before

the public-house, than under any other circumstances. It

not unfrequently gives rise to a dance by little ragged
urchins, and sometimes by half-intoxicated men, who occa
sionally accompany the noise with their own discordant voices.

   Servants and children are great admirers of street music ;
also people from the country, who, coming up to town for a
short time, often encourage it.

   Another class who are great supporters of street music,
consists of ladies of elastic virtue and cosmopolitan tendencies,
to whom it affords a decent excuse for displaying their
fascinations at their own open windows. Most ladies resident
in London are aware of this peculiarity, but occasionally
some few to whom it is not known have found very unpleasant
inferences drawn, in consequence of thus gratifying their
musical taste.

                        Musical Performers.

Musicians.                     Instruments.

Italians  ...              Organs.
                           Brass bands.
Germans   ...              Tom-toms.
                           Brass bands, fiddles, &c.
Natives of India .  .      Bands with double drum.

English . . .

The lowest class of clubs

   The most numerous of these classes, the organ-grinders, are

natives of Italy, chiefly from the mountainous district,

whose language is a rude patois, and who are entirely un

acquainted with any other. It is said that there are above

a thousand of these foreigners usually in London em
ployed in tormenting the natives. They mostly reside in

                                                          z2
340 STREET NUISANCES.

the neighbourhood of Saffron Hill, and are, of course, from

their ignorance of any other language than their own, entirely
in the hands of their padrones. One of these, a most perse
vering intruder with his organ, gave me a false address.

Having ascertained the real address, he was sought for by
the police for above a fortnight, but not discovered. His
padrone becoming aware of his being " wanted," sent him on a

Icountry circuit. once met, within a few miles of the Land's
IEnd, one of these fellows whom had frequently sent away

from my own street.
    The amount of interruption from street music, and from other

occasional noises, varies with the nature and the habits of its

victims. Those whose minds are entirely unoccupied receive
it with satisfaction, as filling up the vacuum of time. Those
whose thoughts are chiefly occupied with frivolous pursuits or
with any other pursuits requiring but little attention from the
reasoning or the reflective powers, readily attend to occasional

street music. Those who possess an impaired bodily frame,
and whose misery might be alleviated by good music at proper
intervals, are absolutely driven to distraction by the vile and
discordant music of the streets waking them, at all hours, in
the midst of that temporary repose so necessary for confirmed
invalids.

    By professional musicians its effects are most severely

felt. It interrupts them in their own studies, and entirely

destroys the value of the instructions they are giving their
domestic pupils. When they leave their own house to give
 lessons to their employers, the " infernal " organ still pursues
them. Their Belgravian employer is obliged, at every
lesson, to bribe the itinerant miscreant to desist -- his charge
for this act of mercy being from a shilling to half-a-crown
for each lesson.
             STREET NUISANCES.     341

It however, right to hint to the members of the
is,
musical profession, that their immediate neighbours do not
    Iquite so much enjoy even the most exquisite professional music
             I
when filtered through brick walls, or transmitted circuitously

and partially through open windows into the houses of their

neighbours.  know of no remedy to propose for the benefit

of the latter class, but think that proper self-respect should
                          is a
induce the professional musician himself to close his windows,
and even to suffer the inconvenience of heat, rather than

permanently annoy his neighbours.
   The law of retaliation, which only justified when other

arguments fail, was curiously put in force in case which wasa
brought under my notice few years ago. An artist of con
                a

siderable eminence, who resided in the west end of London,

had for many a year pursued his own undisturbed and undis-

turbing studies, when one fine morning his professional

studies were interrupted by the continuous sound of music

transmitted through the wall from his neighbour's house.
   Finding the noise continuous and his interruption complete,

he rang for his servant, and putting his maul into the man's

hand desired him to continue knocking against the wall from
whence the disturbance proceeded until he returned from
walk in the Park. He added that he should probably be
absent for an hour, and that any person called and wished
to see him, he should be at home at the end of that time.
             a

                     by if

                              a
                                                                                        a
On his return he was informed that the new tenant of the

adjacent house had called during his absence, and that on being

informed of the hour of his master's return, he had expressed

his intention of calling again. A short time after this the new

tenant of the adjacent house was introduced. He apolo

gized for this visit to stranger, but said that during the last

hour he had been annoyed  most extraordinary knocking
 342 STREET NUISANCES.

against the wall, which entirely interrupted his professional

 pursuits.
    To this the artist replied in almost precisely the same words,

that during the previous hour he had been annoyed by a most
extraordinary and unusual sound which entirely interrupted
his professional pursuits. After some discussion it was settled
that the piano should be removed to the opposite wall,
and that it should be covered with a stratum of blankets.

    This arrangement went on for a few months ; but the
pupils and their relatives disapproving of a dumb piano
gradually left the professor, who found it desirable to give up
the house and retire to a more music-tolerating neighbourhood

In this case the evil was equal on both sides, and it was

reasonable that the new comer should retire.

   In my own case it has often been suggested to me to retaliate ;

and as many of my interruptions have been intentional, that
course might be justifiable. But as they have been confined

Ito one or two of the lowest persons in the neighbourhood,

thought it not right to disturb my more respectable neigh
bours. The means at my command for producing the most
hideously discordant noises are ample, having a considerable

collection of shrill organ pipes, with appropriate bellows, and
an indefatigable steam engine ever ready to work them whilst

I might be " taking a walk in the Park." I hope by the

timely amendment of the law no person may be driven to
practise what it refuses to prevent, and thus test the laws of
the country by the reductio ad absurdum.

   It is difficult to estimate the misery inflicted upon thousands

of persons, and the absolute pecuniary penalty imposed upon
multitudes of intellectual workers by the loss of their time,
destroyed by organ-grinders and other similar nuisances.

  I have witnessed much and suffered more ; many commu-
                   STREET NUISANCES.            343

I Inications on the subject have reached me, and fear that
Imay appear to have neglected several of them.
                                                hope,

however, that the great sacrifice of my own time, which has

Ibeen forced upon me in order to secure the remainder, may
be accepted as my excuse.  will now mention some few of

the results.

   Even policemen have frequently told me that organs are a
great nuisance to them personally. A large number of the

police are constantly on night duty, and of course these can

only get their sleep during the day. On such occasions their

rest is constantly broken by the nuisance of street music.

  A lady, the wife of an officer on half-pay, writes to me,

stating her own sad case. Her husband, suffering under a

painfully nervous affection, is brought up to London for the

benefit of medical advice. Under these circumstances a

sensible improvement takes place, but it requires time and
constant attention to advance the cure. In order to profit by

the eminent skill which London supplies, the lady and her

husband, at considerable sacrifice, take a very small house in a

very quiet little square. Unfortunately, the organ-grinders

had possession of
it

                         ; it,

                                                                       :
                                                                                    a

                                              I
                   and no entreaties would banish them.

The irritation produced on the invalid was frightful, and

feel some relief not to have known its almost inevitable

termination.

   Various accidents occifr as the consequence of street music.

It occasionally happens that horses are frightened, and perhaps

their riders thrown that carriages are run away with, and

their occupiers dreadfully alarmed and possibly even bruised.

   The following casualties were reported, about three years

ago, in most of the daily newspapers --

   " Shocking Occurrence. -- Six Children Run Over and Mutilated.
-- Yesterday afternoon, shortly after four o'clock, German band, whilst
344 STREET NUISANCES.

performing in the Old St. Pancras Road, was the cause of a most dreadful
accident. At the time mentioned, the band referred to was playing at the

corner of Aldenham Terrace, when a man named Charles Field was driving

one of Atcherley's (the horse-slaughterer's) carts down Aldenham Street.

At the end of Aldenham Street there is a great declivity into the St. Pancras

                                                it,

                                                     a
                                                                        a
Road, and just as the cart was turning          laden with dead horse, the big

drum was beaten with extraordinary violence. A cart was standing on the

opposite side of the road, to avoid which short turn on the part of the

driver of Atcherley's cart was necessary. The sudden beating of the drum

caused the horse to take fright, and the driver being pitched head foremost

from his seat, caused him to lose control over the animal he was driving,

which dashed in amongst the children and others who were standing in the

road listening to the music, knocking them down right and left. When

the consternation created by the occurrence had subsided, no less than six

poor children were found lying on the ground in helpless condition, the
                                                ;
vehicle having passed over some part of their persons. They were conveyed; 4,

as fast as possible into the adjacent surgery of Dr. Sutherin, of 28, Alden2,
                                                                      ;a
ham Terrace, who, with his assistant, promptly attended upon them.
   " William Hill, aged nine years, of 34, Stanmore Street, who had sus

tained fractured ribs aud other injuries and
   " Charles Harwood, aged eleven years, of Clarendon Square, with frac

ture of the left arm and groin, as well as right leg, caused by the vehicle

passing over them, were removed, by direction of Dr. Sutherin, to University

Col"legTehe  Hospital.              are Robert  Thwaites, of  St. Pancras Square, aged
              other sufferers

sev"enJamyeeasrs,Giunnjunr,y    to  leg and one of his feet   toes
                              34,   Stanmore Street, crushed
" William Young,
                              8,    Percy Terrace, aged six years, contnsion         to head and

face; and                                                                 attribute  any blame
   " A child, name unknown, considerably injured.
   " The persons who witnessed the occurrence do not

to the driver but as soon as took place the German band were off with
             ;                      it

as little delay as possible." -- Daily Tekgrapfi, Oct.        3,          1861.

If this sad accident had fortunately happened in Belgravia,

there can be little doubt that the law would have been

altered, in order to prevent the recurrence of such frightful

misery.
   No attempt, however, has yet been made to remove the

cause and have myself more recently seen German brass
band playing in very narrow, crowded street, close to the
;

    I

                   a
                                                                   a
                    STREET NUISANCES.                                             345

Bank of England, at three o'clock in the afternoon, making
it difficult to pass, as well as dangerous to one's pocket.

On another occasion, at two o'clock, a German band was

playing in Piccadilly, at that crowded part, the Circus. In

both instances the police were looking on, and seemed to enjoy

the music they were not directed to stop.
I have obtained, in my own country, an unenviable cele
Ibrity, not by anything
                         have done, but simply by a deter

mined resistance to the tyranny of the lowest mob, whose

love, not of music, but of the most discordant noises, is so

great that it insists upon enjoying it at all hours and in every

IBtreet. It may therefore be expected that should in this

volume state at least the outline of my own case.

  I Iclaim no merit for this resistance ; although am quite
Iaware that am fighting the battle of every one of my

countrymen who gains his subsistence by his intellectual                          is,

Ilabour. The simple reason for the course have taken

that however disagreeable         has been, would have been
                           it         a

                                is        1 it
still more painful to have given up great and cherished

object, already fully within my reach.          have been com

pelled individually to resist this tyranny of the lowest mob,
because the Government itself notoriously afraid to face it.

On careful retrospect of the last dozen years of my life,
I
     Ia
have arrived at the conclusion that speak within limit
                                      I
                                             I
when state that one-fourth part of my working power has

been destroyed  by  the nuisance against which have pro

tested. Twenty-five per cent, rather too large an additionalis

income-tax upon the brain of the intellectual workers of this

country, to be levied by permission of the Government, and

squandered upon its most worthless classes.

   The effect of uniform and continuous sound, in distracting
the attention or in disturbing intellectual pursuits, almost
                a
                                                                              is
346 STREET NUISANCES.

insensible. Those who reside near a waterfall-- even Niagara

--have their organs soon seasoned and adapted to its mono
tony. It is the change from quietness to noise, or from one

kind of noise to another, which instantly distracts the atten

tion. It would be equally distracted by the reverse -- by the

sudden change from the hum of the busy world to the still

ness of the desert.

The injurious effect of noisy interruptions upon our atten

tion also varies with the nature of the investigations upon
Ifwhich we are engaged.
                             they are of a kind requiring but a

very small amount of intellectual effort, as, for instance, the
routine of a public office, they will be little felt. If, on the

other hand, those subjects are of such a character as to require

the highest efforts of the thinker, then their examination is

interrupted by the slightest change in the surrounding cir

cumstances.

   When the work to be done is proportioned to the powers
of the mind engaged upon the painful effect of interruption
                             it,
felt as deeply by the least intellectual as by the most highly
is                            I
      itgifted. The condition which determines the maximum ofit
interruption -- that the mind disturbed, however moderateit is
             is,
its powers, shall be working up to its full stretch.is is is
   Finding, many years ago, the increasing interruption of my
                       it
pursuits from street music, as                 now tolerated, deter
mined to endeavour to get rid of               by putting in force our
                                                 it
imperfect law, as far goes.  soon found how very imperis

fect is.                                                 I

   The first step to require the performer to desist, and to

Ifassign illness or other sufficient reason for the request.

a female servant           sent on this mission  quite useless.

The organ-player scarcely ever acquainted with more than

four or five words of our language but these always the most
                             :
                            STREET NUISANCES.                                           347

Ifvulgar, the most offensive, and the most insulting.                                   a man

servant is sent, the Italians are often very insolent, and con

stantly refuse to depart. But there are multitudes of sufferers

who are ill and are in lodgings, and have no servant to send.

Besides, the servants must occasionally be absent, being sent

Iby their employers on their various duties.
   The principle on which proposed to act
                            is ;               whenever

can be fully carried out, usually very effective. It was simply:
this --to make more unprofitable to the offender to do the
I                                                       ; is,
wrong than the right.                                          ;a
                       a
   Whenever, therefore, an itinerant musician disturbed me,      it
                      ; it
   immediately sent out, or went out myself, to warn him away.

At first this was not successful but after summoning and

convicting few, they found out that their precious time was

wasted, and most of them deserted the immediate neighbour

hood. This would have succeeded had the offenders been

few in number but their name legion upwards of thou

sand being constantly in London, besides those on their circuit

in the provinces.

  It was not, however, the interest of those who deserted my

station to inform their countrymen of its barrenness conse

quently, the freshly-imported had each to gain his own ex

perience at the expense of his own and of my time. Perhaps

Imight have succeeded at last in banishing the Italian nui

sance from the neighbourhood of my residence but various

other native professors of the art of tormenting with discords

increased as the licence of these Italian itinerants was en

couraged. Another event, however, occurred, which added

much more seriously to my difficulty.

   Many years before had purchased house in very quiet
I
                   I

                                                                   a

                                            I
                                                                                     a
locality, with an extensive plot of ground, on part of which

had erected workshops and offices, in which might carry
348 STREET NUISANCES.

on the experiments and make the drawings necessary for the

construction of the Analytical Engine. Several years ago the

Iquiet street in which resided was invaded by a hackney-

coach stand. I, in common with most of the inhabitants, re

monstrated and protested against this invasion of our comfort
and this destruction of the value of our property. Our

remonstrance was ineffectual : the hackney-coach stand was

established.

The immediate consequence was obvious. The most re
Ispectable tradesmen, with some of whom
                                                       had dealt for

five-and-twenty years, saw the ruin which was approaching,

and, wisely making a first sacrifice, at once left their deterio
rated property as soon as they could find for it a purchaser.
The neighbourhood became changed : coffee-shops, beer-shops,
and lodging-houses filled the adjacent small streets. The
character of the new population may be inferred from the

taste they exhibit for the noisiest and most discordant music.

  I have looked in vain for any public advantage to justify

this heavy injury to private property. It will scarcely be

believed that another hackney-coach stand actually exists

within two hundred yards,* namely, that in Paddington

Street, which has a very large space unoccupied by any

houses on either side of the street, and which had frequently

cabs on it plying for hire during the whole night.

In endeavouring to put in force the existing law, imperfect

as it  have met with sundry small inconveniences which-
aa

     is,I

                                  is
                                                                    a

                                                                I
Cabinet Minister might perhaps think trivial, but which, in

slight degree, try the temper even of philospher.

* The distance of the most eastern cab on the stand in Dorset Street

from the spot in Paddington Street, on which cabs might stand without being

opposite any houses,  in reality less than 140 yards.                  am not aware of

any two cab-stands placed so near each other as those in question.
         STREET NUISANCES.                                                                 349

Some of my neighbours have derived great pleasure from

inviting musicians, of various tastes and countries, to play
before my windows, probably with the pacific view of ascer

taining whether there are not some kinds of instruments

which we might both approve. This has repeatedly failed,

even with the accompaniment of the human voice divine,
from the lips of little shoeless children, urged on by their
ragged parents to join in a chorus rather disrespectful to their

philosophic neighbour.
   The enthusiasm of the performer, excited by such applause,

has occasionally permitted him to dwell too long upon the

Ialready forbidden notes, and have been obliged to find a

policeman to ascertain the residence of the offender. In the

meantime the crowd of young children, urged on by their

Iparents, and backed at a judicious distance by a set of vaga

bonds, forms quite a noisy mob, following me as pass along,

Iand shouting out rather uncomplimentary epithets. When
Iturn round and survey my illustrious tail, it stops ; if move
         recedes the elder branches are then quiet --
towards  it,
            it

                                        :

                                        is

                            I

                                                                 a
                                                                                      a
sometimes they even retire, wishing perhaps to avoid my
future recognition. The instant turn, the shouting and the

abuse are resumed, and the mob again follow at respectful
distance. The usual result that the deluded musicians find

themselves left in the lurch at the police-court by their en

thusiastic encouragers, and have to pay heavier fine for

having contributed to collect this unruly and ungenerous

mob.

Such occurrences have unfortunately been by no means

rare. In one case there were certainly above                                               hundred
I
                                                                                        a
persons, consisting of men, women, and boys, with multitudes
of young children, who followed me through the streets before

  could find a policeman. To such an extent has this annoy
350 STREET NUISANCES.

I Ianco of shouting out my name, without or with insulting

epithets, been carried, that can truly affirm, unless am

detained at home by illness, no week                  ever passes without
many instances of it.                                 " who are put up to

   The police tell me that the children,

Ithe trick by their parents," belong chiefly to several ragged-
schools in my neighbourhood.      have myself repeatedly

traced numbers of them into the Portman Chapel School,

in East Street. IIn one instance went into that school and

made a formal complaint to the teacher, who expressed great

            it,                                       could see any of the

                   I
                                                   ;
                                 iIf
regret for  and requested me,

offenders, to point them out but amongst the number of

children then present was unable to identify the offenders.

The insults arising from boys, set on by their parents, and

from other older, and therefore less pardonable offenders,

shouting out my name under my windows, or as pass along
I
     II

                                                                                 :

                               II
                                   IIIa
                                            I
the streets, and even in the middle of the night, are of almost

constant occurrence. Of course,   always appear to take

no notice of such circumstances. Only few days ago, whilst

was engaged upon the present chapter, had occasion to

pass down Manchester Street when was about half way

down, heard from that end of the street had left, loud and

repeated cries of " Stop thief."  naturally turned round,

when saw two young fellows at the corner, who repeated

the cry twice, as loudly as they could, and then ran, as hard

as they were able, round the corner out of my sight. There

could be no mistake that this was intended to annoy me,

because     happened at time when there was no person
         it

                                         a
                                             a

                                                                                      a
except myself in the upper part of the street.

Another source of annoyance, fortunately only of very

limited amount, arises from perverse disposition of some of

my neighbours, who, in two or three instances, have gone to
                     STREET NUISANCES.                      351

the expense of purchasing wopn-out or damaged wind instru

ments, which they^are^jncapable of playing, but on which
they produced a discordant noise for the purpose of annoying
me. One of these appearing at the police-court as a witness

for an organ-grinder, was questioned by the magistrate, and

informed that he would render himself liable to an indictment

by the continuance of such conduct. Another foolish young

fellow purchased a wind instrument with a hole in with
                                           a
which he made discordant noises purposely to annoy me.a
Travelling in third-class carriage to Deptford, he described,
       a                                            it,
                                                           it,
with great zest to the person sitting opposite to him, the

instrument, its price, and the use he made of it. The listener

to this confidence was one of the best of my own draughts

men, who was quite as much disturbed by the street music

as myself. The police were made acquainted with the fact,

and believe still have, from time to time, their eyes upon the
II I
young vagabond.

Another wilful disturber of my quiet, was  workman

inhabiting an attic in street which overlooked my garden.
                     I
When he returned daily to his dinner, this fellow, possessinga

a penny tin whistle, opened his window, and leaning out of

blew his shrill instrument in the direction of my garden for

about half-an-hour.        simply noted the fact in memo

randum book, and then employed the time he thought he was

destroying, in taking my daily exercise, or in any other out

door mission my pursuits required. After a perseverance in

this course during many months, he discontinued the annoy

ance, but for what reason never knew.
                     II
At an early period when was putting the law in force, as

far as could, for the prevention of this destruction of my

time,  received constantly anonymous letters, advising,

and even threatening me with all sorts of evils, such as
352 STREET NUISANCES.

destruction of my property, burning my house, injury to my
Iself.
          was very often addressed in the streets with similar
Ithreats. On one occasion, when was returning home from
Ian affair with a mob whom the police had just dispersed,

met, close to my own door, a man, who, addressing me, said,if
" You deserve to have your house burnt, and yourself in
" and will do for you, you old villain." asked him he           it,

had any objection to give me his address. Of course he
I

   I
                it

                                                      a

                                   I
refused.           then followed him at short distance, looking out

for a policeman. Whenever he saw one at a distance he turned

rapidly up the next street this chase continued above half-
                             it ;
an-hour he was then joined             companion, an ill-looking
I                               I by
            a;fellow. They still continued to turn off into another streeta
                  awhenever constable became visible in the distance. At last
                                      I
we saw             great crowd, into which they both rushed, and

further pursuit became impossible.
     will not describe the smaller evils of dead cats, and other

offensive materials, thrown down my area of windows from
                                           ;

time to time purposely broken, or from occasional blows from

                        unseen hands.
stones projected        by

                          I
The last annoyance shall mention, occurred in the month

of December of the past year. had been suffering consider
ably from ill-health, and became necessary that should
                                                         II
undergo a painful surgical operation. Late in the night of      a

that day, got into refreshing sleep, when at one o'clock in
a                       a

the morning was suddenly awakened by the crash of brassI

    I
band, which continued playing whilst was unable to move,

and was compelled passively to submit to the tormentors.

By most singular accident, many weeks after, became

possessed of evidence, that the musicians held a consultation
in Manchester Square about going to the top of the street to

wake me up.          I  am glad, however, to add, for the credit of
                   STREET NUISANCES.

human nature, that one of the party advised them not to do

it, and that he himself immediately left them.

  It  has been found, upon undoubted authority, by returns

from benefit societies, that in London, about 472 persons per
cent, are constantly ill. This approximation may be fairly

assumed as the nearest yet attained for the population of

London. It follows, therefore, that about forty-seven out of

every thousand inhabitants are always ill. The number of
persons per h6use varies in different parts. In my own dis

trict averages ten to each house in neighbouring district
    it
                 is

                                                                             ;

                                                            a
the average thirteen per house.

   In Manchester Street, which faces my own residence, there

are fifty-six houses. This, allowing the above average of ill-

health, will show that about twenty-six persons are usually

ill in that street. Now the annoyance from street music
                                                                                         is
by no means confined to the performers in the street in which                                  is
  house situated. In my own case, there are portions of five
a

           it is

                                A by

                                                             a
other streets in which street music constantly interrupts me
Ifin my pursuits.
                   the portions of these five streets are con

sidered to be only equal in population to that of Manchester
Street, will appear that upwards of fifty people who are ill,

are constantly disturbed  the same noises which so fre

quently interrupt my own pursuits.                                                       far

  The misery inflicted upon those who are really ill

greater than that which arises from the mere destruction of

time, however valuable.   friend of mine, himself an excel

lent magistrate, suffering under severe and fatal complaint,

was almost driven to distraction during the last six months of

his painful existence, by the constant occurrence of the organ

nuisance, which he was entirely unable to stop.

    have at times made attempts to register the number of
I

                                                                                   ;

                                                                               2
such interruptions in my pursuits but these have been very

                                                                                      A
354 STREET NUISANCES.

Ipartial and imperfect.   find by some notes, that during about
Ieighty days, registered one hundred and sixty-five instances,
the greater part of which I went out myself to put a stop to

the nuisance. In several of these cases my whole day's work

Iwas destroyed, for they frequently occurred at times when

was giving instruction to my workmen relative to some of the

most difficult parts of the Analytical Engine.

  IAt one period after had succeeded in getting two or

      three convictions, some of my neighbours put themselves to

.1

      the expense of having large placards printed, in which they

abused me for having put the law in force against the de

stroyers of my time. These placards they stuck up in the
windows of their little shops, at intervals from Edgware Road

to Tottenham Court Road. Some of them attempted verse

and thought it poetry ; though the only part really imagina

tive was their prose statements.                             ,

   Unfortunately for my comfort, a few years ago, Mr. X

--one of the magistrates of Marylebone Office, was succeeded

by Mr. Y --. Now the taste of the new magistrate, like

that of his predecessor, was favourable to the Italian organ :

his predecessor might, however, have been excused, as he
was deaf. Possibly Mr. Y
                          thinks that all Italian music

is high art, and therefore ought to be encouraged.

  I soon discovered that it was useless to bring any musical
Ioffender before him, and had for some time to endure the

most intolerable interruption of my pursuits.

  IUpon one occasion, when had summoned an organ-grinder

before him, his decision was, in my opinion, so unsatisfac

Itory, that determined to address to the Home Secretary a

remonstrance against it.

The case was heard by Mr. Y  about the middle of

July. My letter to Sir George Grey, accompanied by a series
                   STREET NUISANCES.          355

of the placards, was sent to the Home Office about the middle

Iof August. waited patiently for a reply, but, receiving none,
I took it for granted that my letter could not have reached
Ithe Home Secretary. At last, on the 17th of December,

wrote to his private secretary, in order to ascertain the fact :

the reply to my note was --the simple admission that the letter
Ihad been received.
Icalculations.       confess that this event baffled all my

                had observed that high officials, distinguished

by their intellectual powers, were occasionally oblivious upon

minor points ; but that high officials distinguished only by

the office they held were usually most rigidly courteous and

exact.

  IAfter this abstained for a long time from bringing any
case before Mr. Y
                     . At last a case occurred, which it
Iappeared to me could not be resisted.
                                         brought it before

that magistrate ; it was heard, and the charge was dismissed.

IBelieving the decision to be erroneous in law, consulted a

solicitor who had much experience in the Metropolitan Police

Courts, with the view of getting the opinion of the Court of

Queen's Bench upon the subject.
   My legal adviser had no doubt that the decision would be

favourable, but urged upon me the great expense, and

advised me not to proceed. On inquiry as to the probable

Iamount, he suggested that it might reach fifty pounds.

immediately replied that it would be good economy to pur

Ichase my own time at that expense, and desired him to take

the necessary steps.
   The first was to get some housekeeper to enter with me

into a bond for twenty pounds to pay the magistrate's costs,

Iin case failed. Having wasted some time upon this, the

magistrate granted a case for the Queen's Bench, a copy of

which my solicitor immediately sent me.

                                         2A2
350 STREET NUISANCES.

The grounds of Mr. Y  's decision, were--

1st. That the man was not legally in custody.

2nd. That he was not within reasonable distance of my

house.

3rd. That he did not understand the English language.

IOn receiving this, felt quite relieved, and thought that a

clear decision upon these three points would be very cheaply

purchased by an expenditure of fifty pounds.

However, on mentioning the subject to several of my per

sonal friends, who were themselves high in the profession of
I Ithe law, was destined to be grievously disappointed.
                                                         was

informed that the Court of Queen's Bench would not decide

upon any one of the questions, but would decide generally

that the magistrate's decision was right or was wrong, without

giving me the least intimation on which of the grounds it rested.
I now perceived the dodge that had been practised upon me,
Iand felt compelled to admit that Mr. Y
                                               was a clever

fellow. A regard for truth, however, forbids me to extend

the application of this observation to anybody else concerned

in this matter.

  I have spared neither expense nor personal trouble in en

deavouring to put a stop to this nuisance. During one twelve

month those expenses amounted, within a few shillings, to
Ione hundred and four pounds.
                               was not, however, the only

sufferer ; that amount would otherwise have been expended

in giving a year's employment to a skilled workman, whose

Iwages are about two pounds a week.
      shall now give one illustration from my own experience

of the utterly imperfect state of the law for suppressing the
nuisance of street music : --

   On Monday, the 29th of February, in the present year, at
3 P.M., in the midst of a thick fog, a brass band struck up
              STREET NUISANCES.                         357

Iclose under my windows.  was in ill-health, and engaged in
Ia subject requiring much attention.
                                      knocked at the win

dow ; but the band continued their performance. Then 1

opened the window and desired them to desist ; they still con

Itinued, and then sent my servant to desire them to go away.

Having finished their tune, they removed about five doors

from my residence, and commenced another performance.

IMy patience being exhausted, then went out myself to

desire my tormentors to depart. My servant went on to the
station before he could get a constable. In the meantime

the band had removed about six doors further, and began

another tune. At last my servant arrived with a policeman,

who took down the names and addresses of the nine musicians

constituting the band.

  IThe next day paid twenty-seven shillings for summonses.

The day after, the police informed me that all the addresses

given, which were either in Richmond or Brentford, were false.
I applied to the police, who watched at certain haunts ; but
Ithey only succeeded in identifying two of them.
                                                        then

obtained warrants to apprehend those two, and came up
from the country expressly to attend at the police-court ; but

Ithe men were not to be found. am still waiting in the hope

that our police is not quite so inefficient as to allow them to
Iescape.
          have already been put to the charge of employing

a solicitor and to other expenses. But the band itself
                                      it
believe, still going about in London and playing every day.
                                          is,I
Now,a         had been legal for the police to have taken

      if
          it
possession of the instruments of those disturbers of the public

peace, false address would have been useless, for would

have been cheaper to have paid the penalties than to have

lost their instruments.

   It presume, admitted that streets and high roads are not
iIs,
358 STREET NUISANCES.

the property of those who use them. They are the Queen's

highways, and were devoted to the public for certain uses only.

The public have an undoubted right to traverse them, and

convey over them persons, goods, materials, &c. The ad

jacent householders must bear any amount of noise which is

fairly required for the legitimate use of roads ; but no indi

vidual has any right to use them for other purposes,   as for

instance --
   Theatrical representations --as Punch, Gymnastics.

Playground and games.

Religious services.

Music --as Organs and Brass Bands.

These not merely interfere with their proper use, but disturb

the householders and are in most cases a positive nuisance.
   The following letter, from an " Old Lawyer," recently

appeared in The Times. It states the law briefly, and with
authority :--

          STREET MUSIC.

          To the Editor of The Times.

"Sir, --Whether street music in London ought to be put

down or not, I, living in the country, am not concerned to
Ianswer.
          suppose it is a question, like smoking, on which the

public will always be divided ; but as the law on the subject is

Iso clear and simple, am surprised how legislators and justices

can be puzzled about it.
   " Every public road or street belongs to the Sovereign, as

embodying the nation, and is accordingly called the King's or

Queen's highway. The interest of each individual is limited
to a right of passing and repassing over such highway, and he
is no more entitled to use it for business or amusement than

he is to build upon it or dig for ore beneath its surface.
                      STREET NUISANCER                       359

Hence the keeping of stalls for sale is illegal, and, though

often winked at, is sometimes denounced and punished.

Hence, the police are justified in desiring you to ' move on,'

if you loiter, iu looking at a shop window or conversing with

a friend, so as to bar the progress of passengers. A fortiori, a

band of musicians has no locus standi on the ground.

"There                in my neighbourhood, right of way over
            is,           a                                      a

                      I
gentleman's park. But have only the privilege of passage,

and none of remaining on the path for the purpose of reading,

sketching,  or playing the violin.
             " am, Sir, your obedient Servant,
            I
                                             " An Old
                                                       Lawyer."

At most, the tolerance of noisy occupants of the streets,

such as organ-grinders, German bands, hoc genus omne,
                                            et

                                                   a
                                                                           is
on sufferance only, and neither the municipal law nor common

sense justifies the invasion or curtailment of man's liberty

to use his brain, and exert his mental energies as the occasion

may require and that, too, even within the very recesses of
the " Englishman's castle."
            it
With respect to the remedies against street music, am not;
                          it

                                  is
                                                        is,

                                         I
at all sanguine. The only one which certain            positively

to forbid in all cases, and with also that varied multitude

of vocal noises made  by  persons parading the streets singing,

relating tales, praying, offering trifling articles for sale,it,

&c, all of them with the transparent object of begging.
   In all these cases which admit of the police ought to be

directed to take possession of the offensive instrument and

convey to the police-court, there to await the decision of
:
the magistrate.
   it
Certain street nuisances re-appear periodically every few

years thus the game called tip-cat again prevails.
                          '
                                         '
360 STREET NUISANCES.

   After a certain number of eyes have been knocked out, the

police will probably have orders to stop the nuisance. It will

then be put down in a few weeks, and, perhaps, after a year
or two it may break out afresh, and be again as easily put

down.

   A similar cycle occurs with children's hoops: they are

trundled about until they get under horses' legs. Now as
                                                       is if,
                                                             is
frequently happens, they are made of iron, not only the
a it
rider thrown as well as the horse, but the poor animal
                 a
                                               aalmost sure to have his leg broken.

                                                byIn these and other similar cases, the offending instrument

should invariably be detained                       the police and taken to the

station to be destroyed, or only to be returned on payment of

small fine by the offending party within three days after the

seizure.                  multitude of daily street nuisances

  If this were the case,

would very soon disappear. Boys with accordions and other
noisy instruments, small children with shrill tin whistles would

then be obliged to ask their parents to go to the police-office

and pay fine for the recovery of toys, and the parents them

selves would prevent their children from destroying the time

of other persons as soon as they were made to feel that      ; it

incurred an equal penalty on their own.

Every kind of noisy instrument, whether organ or harp, or

trumpet or penny whistle, sounded, should be seized by the
                          it if
police and taken to the station, also all hoops and instru;

ments for playing games. The effect of this would ultimately

be to diminish the labours of the police. At first they would

have some additional trouble but few months would make
                                        a
                                             a
the disturbers feel that was very unprofitable practice

and after that,  if  the police did their duty, they would

only occasionally have to seize stray instrument or two.a
                       STREET NUISANCES.                                          3(>1

Proper warning of this intention to enforce the law ought to

be given. The multitude of music-halls now established in

all parts of London is such that those who enjoy street music
may have a much larger quantity of and of better kind,
a

  I
                            is
                                                     it,
                                                                            a
at cheaper rate than that which in their own street disturbs

all their neighbours.
If street music
                       to be at all tolerated by law, against

which protest in the strongest manner, then every per

former ought to carry on his back or upon his instrument his

name and address, or an authorized number, by which the

public might be saved from wasting their time by false ad

dresses, now so frequently given.

have received several suggestions about organizing
it is I                a
     it I                         a

                  a                      a

                                                    it,
                                                    it

                                                                   it
                                                                          it a
society, to endeavour to put stop to these street nuisances.

My reply has been that such combination well managed

would probably have very considerable effect, but that

would be impossible for me to give up to any of my own

time.              would willingly subscribe to                    and offer      any

suggestions that might assist its operations. Its most im

portant duty would be to ascertain whether the present law

sufficient to put down the nuisance. In case                                   not, then
                                   it
                                                  it
                                                          is
would become necessary to get amended, and for that

purpose to consult with influential Members                        about the intro
                                                                   following -- The
duction of Bill for that purpose.                                              :

   Amongst the legal difficulties are the

magistrates in different districts interpret the law differently.

Might not be expedient that police magistrates should

meet from time to time and discuss such differences of

opinion, and agree to act upon that of the majority? Or

ought they not to apply to the Home Secretary for his

authority how to interpret

  If am right in the opinion which
I                                                                  confirmed in the
                                  it
                                                     ?
                                                               is
362 STREET NUISANCES.

letter of the " Old Lawyer," that the Queen's highways can only
be legally used by her subjects for the passage of themselves
and the transport of their property, then it is desirable to

ascertain how that principle of the common law can be

enforced. Hitherto all proceedings have been under certain

clauses of the Metropolitan Police Act.

   In case any Association should be formed to endeavour to
procure an Act of Parliament to put an end to the music
nuisance, it would be desirable to apply distinctly to each of
the Members for the Metropolitan Boroughs, in order that it

might be known on which side of the question they intended

to vote.

   As upon all other subjects, men differ upon street nui
sances. An ancient philosopher divided all mankind into two

sections, namely, fools and philosophers ; and, unhappily for

the race, the one cannot enjoy his whistle except at the
Iexpense of the other.
                         was once asked by an astute and
Isarcastic magistrate whether seriously believed that a man's

brain would be injured by listening to an organ ; my reply

was, "Certainly not;" for the obvious reason that no man

having brain ever listened to street musicians.

          " The opera, like the pillory, may be said

                To nail the ears down, but expose the head."  of

I believe that the greater part of the householders

London would gladly assist in putting a stop to street-music.

The proportion of cases prosecuted compared with the number

                   is,
                                is
of interruptions,  in my own case, less than one in a thou
Ifsand.
          the annoyance             not absolutely prohibited by law,

the number of the police must be at least double, to give

quiet working people any repose.
CHAPTER XXVU.

WIT.

Poor Dogs-- Puns Double and Triple--History of the Silver Lady --Disap
   pointed by the Milliner -- The Philosopher performs her functions -- Lady
   Morgan's Criticism --Allsop's Beer--Sydney Smith -- Toss up a Bishop --
   Lady M . . . and the Gipsy in Spain -- Epigram on the Planet Neptune --

    Epigram on Henry Drummond's attack upon Catholics in the House of

   Commons --On Catholic Miracles.

It has often struck me that an analysis of the causes of

wit would be a very interesting subject of inquiry. With that

Iview collected many jest-books, but fortunately in this one
Iinstance had resolution to abstain from distracting my atten

tion from more important inquiries.

  I may, however, note some illustrations of it which occur

to my memory. The late Sir Harris Nicolas used to practice
Irather strongly upon some of his friends.
                                            was not an un

willing victim. The pleasure derived from the wit far
exceeded any pain it inflicted. Indeed, Sir Harris himself

one day expressed his disappointment at my insensibility, by

saying that he had never in his whole life been able really to
hit me.

The late Lord S . . . . was sitting with him one morning

listening to a very astute but rather dry explanation of some

matter about which his Lordship had inquired. At last he
threw himself back in his arm-chair and said, " My dear

INicolas, am very stupid this morning : my brains are all
364 A TRIPLE PUN.

gone to the dogs." On which Sir Harris pathetically ex
claimed, --" Poor dogs !"

  It is evident in this case, that the wit of the reply arose

from sympathy expressed on the wrong side. The peer ex

pected sympathy from the knight : but the knight gave it to

the dogs.

Another remarkable feature of jokes formed upon this prin

   is,
                                a

                                                                               :

                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                is,
ciple that they generally depend upon the intimate mean

ing of the words employed, and not either upon their sound

or their arrangement; consequently, they possess the rare

quality of being translatable into all languages.

One of the principles of discovery in many subjects

to generalize from the individual case up to the species, and

thence to descend to other individual instances.

Puns are detestable. The greater number of them depend

on the double meaning of the same word, or on the similar

pronunciation of words differently spelt.  The following may

serve as an example of triple pun --

A gentleman calling one morning at the house of lady

whose sister was remarkably beautiful, found her at the

writing-table. Putting his hand upon the little bell used for

calling the attendant, he inquired of the lady of the house

what relationship existed between his walking-stick, her sister,

and the instrument under his finger.

                           (cane                                      beUja(a
                                        the brother of belle
                                   .
   His walking-stick  was  j^,                              lAbel.
                             a

                                  |, I
I     mentioned, in an early chapter, my boyish admiration of
an automaton in the shape of silver lady, who attitudinized
in the most graceful manner. Her fate was singular at the:
death of her maker she was sold with the rest of his collection
           THE SILVER LADY.  365

of mechanical toys, and was purchased by Weekes, who had a
mechanical exhibition in Cockspur Street. No attempt ap

pears to have been made to finish the automaton; and it

seems to have been placed out of the way in an attic unco

vered and utterly neglected.

  IOn the sale by auction of Weeke's Museum, met again

Ithe object of my early admiration. Having purchased the

silver figure, proceeded to take to pieces the whole of the

mechanism, and found a multitude of small holes which had

been stopped up as not having fulfilled their intended object.

In fact, it appeared tolerably certain that scarcely any

drawings could have been prepared for the automaton, but
that the beautiful result arose from a system of continual

trials.

  I myself repaired and restored all the mechanism of the

Silver Lady, by which title she was afterwards known to my
Ifriends.
           placed her under a glass case on a pedestal in my

drawing-room, where she received, in her own silent but grace

ful manner, those valued friends who so frequently honoured

me with their society on certain Saturday evenings.
   This piece of mechanism formed a striking contrast with the

unfinished portion of the Difference Engine, No. 1, which
was placed in the adjacent room : the whole of the latter

mechanism existed in drawings upon paper before any portion

of it was put together.

   The external surface of the figure, which was beautiful in

form, was made of silver. It was, therefore, necessary to

supply her with robes suitable to her station. This would

have been rather difficult for a philosopher, but it was made

easy by the aid of one or two of my fair friends who kindly

intervened. These generously assisted with their own pecu
liar skill and taste at the toilette of their rival Syren.
366 LADY MORGAN'S CRITICISM.

Sketches were made and modiste of the purest water were

employed.  The result was, upon the whole, highly satis

factory. One evening, however, the arrival of the new dress

Iwas postponed to so late a period, that feared it had entirely

escaped the recollection of the executive department. The

hour at which my friends usually arrived was rapidly ap

proaching.

   In this difficulty it occurred to me that there were a few

remnants of beautiful Chinese crape in the silver lady's ward

robe. Having selected two strips, one of pink and the other

Iof light green, hastily wound a platted band of bright auburn

hair round the block on which her head-dresses were usually

constructed, and then pinned on the folds of coloured crape.

This formed a very tolerable turban, and was not much un

like a kind of head-dress called a toke, which prevailed at

that period. Another larger piece of the same pink Chinese
I Icrape wound round her person, which thought showed
Iit off to considerable advantage. Fortunately,
                                                 found in

her wardrobe a pair of small pink satin slippers, on each of

Iwhich fixed a single silver spangle: then placing a small
I Isilver crescent in the front of her turban, felt had accom

  plished all that time and circumstances permitted.
      The criticisms on the costume of the Silver Lady were

  various. In the course of the evening, Lady Morgan commu

  nicated to me confidentially her own opinion of the dress.
     Holding up her fan, she whispered, " My dear Mr. Babbage,

 I think your Silver Lady is rather slightly clad to-night ; shall

I Ilend her a petticoat ?" to which replied, " My dear Lady

IMorgan, am much indebted for your very considerate offer,

Ibut fear you have not got one to spare."
   This retort was not a pun, but merely a " double-entendre."
It might mean either that her Ladyship had on invisibles, but
              ALLSOP'S BEEK.

not enough to be able to spare one : or it might imply that,

having no garment of that kind, she was unable to lend one

to a friend.

About the time of the attempt to assassinate the Emperor

of the French by Orsini, an Englishman named Alsop was

arrested in London, and afterwards tried and acquitted of a

connection with the assassins.

At a distinguished dinner-party, amongst whom was the

Attorney-General of that day, there arose a question as to
who Mr. Alsop was. One of the company asked, " Whether it

was Allsop's beer ?" meaning, whether the prisoner was the

concoctor of that delightful beverage. The gentleman to

whom the question was addressed, immediately replied, " It

is not at present Allsop's beer, but," said he, turning to the

Attorney-General, " if your prosecution succeeds, it is very

likely to become Alsop's bier."

Sydney Smith occasionally called upon me in the morning,

and was ever a most welcome visitor. The conversation

Iusually commenced upon grave subjects, and was always

desirous of profiting by the light his powerful mind threw upon

the most difficult questions.

When railways first came into existence much reasonable

alarm arose from the rapidity of the trains and the immense

masses of matter in motion. One morning my friend called
Iand asked my opinion on the subject.
                                       pointed out what

then appeared to me the chief sources of danger, and entered

upon some of the precautions to be attended to, and of re

Imedies to be applied.             did not go and inform
   Sydney Smith then asked me why

the Government of the danger and of the means of remedying

it. My answer was, that such a mission would be a pure

waste of time, that nothing whatever would be done until
308 OPINION ON DUELLING.

some great man, a prime minister for instance, were smashed.

I then continued, " Perhaps a bishop or two would do ; for

you know," said I, looking slyly at my friend, " they are so

Imuch better prepared for the change than we are."
      have heard this view of the subject assigned to Sydney

Smith. It is very probable that it should have occurred to

Ihim, although scarcely imagine he would have given the
Ireason did for the preference. His celebrated suggestion to

the person who asked him how a man could find which way the

wind blew when there was no weathercock in sight,* adds to

the probability of Sydney Smith's originality. On the other

Ihand, may support my own pretensions to independent in
Ivention by referring to a parallel remark made many years

before : --

At a large dinner party the subject of duelling was dis

cussed. Various opinions were propounded as to its absolute
Inecessity.
             had made no remark upon the question, but

during a slight pause somebody on the opposite side of the

table asked my opinion on the subject. My reply was,

I always wished that the injured man should fall. On
Ibeing asked my reason for that wish, answered, " Because

he is so much better prepared for the change than the wrong
Idoer."
         afterwards learned, with great satisfaction, that

when the ladies retired to the drawing-room, the discussion

was much criticized and my reply highly applauded.

The late Lady M    , having a great desire to see

Mr. Borrow, asked me to invite him to one of my Saturday
Ievening parties.
                   expressed my regret that, not having
Ithe
Imy                                                 him to
pleasure of his acquaintance,    was unable to ask
house, as never made " lions
                               " of my guests.

A short time after, a friend who was coming to me on the

                   * Toss up a bishop.
                A SLIGHT MISTAKE.                       869

following Saturday, called to ask me to allow him to

bring Mr. Borrow who dined with him on that day, to my

Iparty in the evening. Of course, willingly gave the invita

tion, and then wrote a note to inform Lady M

of the occurrence of the opportunity she wished for.

On the following Saturday evening Lady SI               was

announced, and immediately asked me whether Mr. Borrow
Ihad arrived.
Ifurther room. said that he had, and that he was in the

                then added, that in the course of a few
Imoments should have great pleasure in presenting to her

Mr. Borrow.

Lady M          , who had several other engagements that
evening, said, " Only tell me what sort of a person he
                                            !"
and will go and find him out myself."                         a
aII
      observed that he was remarkably tall, straggling person,a          a is,
with very intelligent countenance. With these instructions

her ladyship left me, and finding, as she imagined, exactly

the man had described, immediately accosted him. The
         I

conversation was highly interesting, and included     great

variety of widely different subjects. It concluded by Lady

M expressing her delight with her new acquaint
ance, from whom she parted with this remark, "What

delightful gipsying life you must have led

A  slight mistake had, however, occurred, which was not

discovered until long after: the person thus addressed

was not Mr. Borrow, but Dr. Whately, the Archbishop of

Dublin.

In this chapter may be placed one or two epigrams which,

though upon subjects of transitory interest, may amuse those

who are acquainted with the attending circumstances.

  It will be remembered that great discussion arose about

the conflicting claims of Adams and Le Verrier to the dis

                                            2
                                                B
370 WINKING STATUES.

--covery of the planet Neptune. A great controversy resulted,

which was at last summed up in the following couplet :

                    " When Airy was told, he wouldn't believe it ;
                         When Challis Haw, he couldn't perceive it."

   The clever and eccentric member for East Surrey, the late
Henry Drummond, who founded a professorship of Political
Economy at Oxford, made in the House of Commons a most
amusing, though rather strong speech against the modern
miracles of the Roman Catholic Church, in which he spoke
of "their bleeding pictures, their winking statues, and the
Virgin's milk." On this some profane wag wrote the following
couplet :--

                  " Sagacious Drummond, explain, with your divinity :
                       Why reject the milk, yet swallow the virginity ?"

   Probably some clever fellow of that faith was at the bottom

Iof this mischief ; for have observed that the cleverest fellows

seem to think that the merit of adhering to a cause entitles
them to the right of quizzing it.

  I Iwas particularly struck with this idea when saw, for the

first time, at Cologne, the celebrated picture of St. Ursula
and her eleven thousand virgins. The artist has quietly
made every one of them more or less matronly.
                    CHAPTER XXVIII.

                    HINTS FOR TRAVELLERS.

New Inventions -- Stomach Pump -- Built a Carriage -- Description of
Thames Tunnel   --  Barton's Iridescent Buttons -- Chinese
-- Manufactory  of                                          Orders of Nobility
                     Gold Chains at Venice--Pulsations       and Respirations
of Animals -- Punching a
of an Enormous Smash --     Hole    in Glass without cracking it-- Specimen
field -- Wentworth House.  Proteus    Anguineus-- Travellers' Hotel at Shef

IIn this chapter      propose to throw together a few sugges

tions, which may assist in rendering a tour successful for its

objects and agreeable in its reminiscences.
IMoney is the fuel of travelling.
                                    can give the traveller
Ia few hints how to get money, although never had any skill

in making it myself.

  IIn one tour, extending over more than a twelvemonth,
Itook with me two letters of credit, each for half the sum

should probably require. My reasons for this were, that in
case one was lost the other might still be available. One of
these was generally kept about my person, the other concealed

Iin my writing-case. Another reason was, that if were un

luckily carried off and detained for a ransom, it might thus

be mitigated.

  It is of great advantage to a traveller to have some acquaint
ance with the use of tools. It is often valuable for his

own comfort, and sometimes renders him able to assist a
Ifriend.
          met at Frankfort the eldest son of the coaehmaker

                                             2 B2
372 TRAVELLING CAREIAGE.

of the Emperor of Russia. He had been travelling over the

western part of Europe, and showed me drawings he had made

of all the most remarkable carriages he had met with. Some

of these were selected for their elegance, others for the re

verse ; take, as an example, the Lord Mayor's.

  IWe travelled together to Munich, and took that oppor

tunity of discussing, seriatim, with my very intelligent young

friend, every part of the structure of a carriage.

  I Imade notes of certain portions in case should find

occasion to have a carriage built for my own use.

The young Russian was on his way to Moscow, and was

very anxious to prevail on me to accompany him thither, for

I Iwhich purpose he offered to wait my own time at Munich.

As, however, wished to reach Italy as soon as possible,

declined his proposition with much regret.

  IHowever, in the following year, profited by the informa
Ition then gained. 1 had built for me at Vienna, from my
Iown design, a strong light four-wheeled caleche in which

could sleep at full length. Amongst its conveniences were a

Ilamp by which occasionally boiled an egg or cooked my

breakfast. A large shallow drawer in which might be placed,

without folding, plans, drawings, and dress-coats. Small

pockets for the various kinds of money, a larger one for

travelling books and telescopes, and many other conveniences.

It cost somewhat about sixty pounds. After carrying me

during six months, at the expense of only five francs for repair,

I sold it at the Hague for thirty pounds.

  It is always advantageous for a traveller to carry with him

anything of use in science or in art if it is of a portable

nature, and still more so if it has also the advantage of
          IAt the time started on a lengthened tour the
novelty.

stomach-pump had just been invented. It appeared to give
           DESCRIPTION OF THAMES TUNNEL.                 373

Ipromise of great utility.    therefore arranged in a small box

the parts of an instrument which could be employed either

as a syringe, a stomach-pump, or for cupping. As a stomach-

pump, it was in great request from its novelty and utility.

I had many applications for permission to make drawings of

    to which always most willingly acceded. At Munich,
it,
        it,

          I
                    I

                                         it
Dr. Weisbrod, the king's physician, was greatly interested

with and at his wish lent to the chief surgical instru

ment-maker who produced for him an exact copy of the

whole apparatus.

   Having visited the Thames Tunnel day or two before
                                                   a     II I

started for the Continent, purchased a dozen copies of the
                      I

very lucid account of that most interesting work. Six of

the copies were in French and the other six in the German

language.     frequently lent copy, and upon some occasions
           I                  a

I  gave one away but I if       had had twice that number
                  ;          1

should have found that might have distributed them with

advantage as acknowledgments of the many attentions

received.

   Another most valuable piece of travelling merchandise

consisted of dozen large and dozen small gold buttons
           a
                                                a

stamped by Barton's steel dies. These buttons displayed the

most beautiful iridescence, especially in the light of the sun.

They were formed by ruling the steel die in parallel lines

in various forms. The lines were from the four to the ten

thousandth of an inch apart.

   possessed a die which Mr. Barton had kindly given me.
it I
   I

                    I

                                               a

                                                                               ;

                                 I

                                                                                                   a

                                                                                                                                                         ;
This kept in my writing-case but had had a small piece

of steel ruled in the same way, though not with quite the

same perfection, which always kept in my waistcoat pocket

   was also accompanied by small gold button in sandal

wood case. These were frequently of great service. The
371 IRIDESCENT BUTTONS.

mere sight of them procured me many little attentions in

diligences and steamboats.

  IOf course never appeared to be the possessor of more

than one of these treasured buttons ; so that if any one had

saved my life, its gift would have been thought a handsome
I IIfacknowledgment.
                       had travelled in the East, as had

originally intended until the battle of Navarino prevented

me, my buttons might have given me unlimited success in

the celestial empire.

The Chinese, like ourselves, have five orders of nobility.

They are indicated by spherical buttons. The Chinese

nobles, however, wear them on the top of their caps, whilst
our nobility wear their pearls and strawberry-leaves in their

armorial bearings.

  It is a curious circumstance that the most anciently

civilized nation should have invented an order of knighthood
almost exactly similar to our own--the order of the Pea
cock's Feather -- which, like our own Garter, is confined to cer

tain classes of nobility of the highest rank. Of the two the

decoration of the Chinese noble is certainly the more graceful.

  IOne out of many illustrations may show the use made of
Ia button. During my first visit to Venice wished to see a

manufactory of gold chains for which that city is justly cele
Ibrated.
          readily got permission, and the proprietor was so
Igood as to accompany me round his factory.
                                             had inquired

the price of various chains, and had expressed my wish to

Ipurchase a few inches of each kind ; but was informed that

they never sold less than a braccia of any one chain. This

Iamount would have made my purchase more costly than
Iproposed, so gave it up.

   In the meantime we proceeded through several rooms in

which various processes were going on. Observing some
         THE VALUE OF A BUTTON.                      375

Itools in one of the shops, took up a file and asked whence

it was procured. This led to a conversation on the subject,

in which the proprietor gave me some account of files from

various countries, but concluded by observing that the

ILancashire files, when they could be got, were by far the
best.    took this opportunity of asking him whether he had

seen any of our latest productions in steel: then pulling

out of my waistcoat-pocket the piece of hardened steel, ruled
Iby a diamond, put it into his hands. The sun was shining
Ibrightly, and he was very much interested with it.
                                                     re

marked that in a darkened room, and with a single lamp, it
would be seen with still greater advantage. A room was soon

darkened, and a single lamp produced, and the effect was

still more perfect. My conductor then observed that his ma

Inaging man was a very skilful workman, and if could afford

the time, he should much wish to show him this beautiful
Isight.
         said it always gave me pleasure to see and converse
Iwith a skilful workman, and that considered it as time

well spent. The master sent for his superintendent, who,
being of a judicious turn of mind, was lavish in admiring

what his master approved. The master himself, gratified by
this happy confirmation, turning to me, said that he would let
me have pieces of any or all of his gold chains of any length,

Ihowever short might wish them to be.
  I thanked him for thus enabling me to make my country

men appreciate the excellence of Venetian workmanship, and
purchased small samples of every kind of chain then manu

Ifactured. These, on my return to London, weighed and

measured, and referred to them in the economy of manufac
tures as illustrations of the different proportions in which
skilled labour and price of raw material occur in the same

class of manufactured articles.
376 PULSATIONS AND INSPIRATIONS.

A friend of mine, then at Venice, again visited that city about

five years afterwards. He subsequently informed me that
Ihe had purchased, at the manufactory
                                                                    visited, samples of

gold chains about an inch or two long, fixed on black velvet,

and that it formed a regular article of trade in some demand.

A man may, without being a proficient in any science, and

indeed with only the most limited knowledge of a small

portion of yet make himself useful to those who are most
I
      Iinstructed. However limited the path he may himself pursue,

                      it,he will insensibly acquire other information in return for

that which he can communicate.          will illustrate this one    a
                           I
of my own pursuits.                                                  I
                                 It                                          by

                                       I
                           possess the slightest possible acquaint

ance with the vast fields of animal life, but at an early period

was struck by the numerical regularity of the pulsation

and of the breathings.     appeared to me that there must

exist some relation between these two functions. Accord

ingly, took every opportunity of counting the numbers of

the pulsations and of the breathings of various animals. The

pig fair at Pavia and the book fair at Leipsic equally placed

before me menageries in which could collect such facts.
                                I
Every zoological collection of living animals which visited
                                    it
thus gained an additional interest, and occasionally excited

the attention of those in charge of to making collection

of facts relating to that subject. This led me at another

period to generalize the subject of inquiry, and to print a

skeleton form for the constants of the class mammalia. It

was reprinted by the British Association at Cambridge in

1833, aud also at Brussels in the 'Travaux du Congress

General de Statistique,' Brussels, 1853.

I

                                                                by
have so frequently been mortified                                   having the utterly-
HOW TO PUNCH A HOLE IN GLASS.  377

Iundeserved reputation of knowing everything that was led

to inquire into the probable grounds of the egregious fallacy.

The most frequent symptom was an address of this kind :--
" Now Mr. Babbage, will you, who know everything, kindly
" explain to me -- -- -- ." Perhaps the thing whose expla

nation was required might be the metre of some ancient
Chinese poem : or whether there were any large rivers in the

planet Mercury.
    One of the most useful accomplishments for a philosophical

I Itraveller with which am acquainted, learned from a work

man, who taught me how to punch a hole in a sheet of glass
without making a crack in it.

   The process is very simple. Two centre-punches, a ham
mer, an ordinary bench-vice, and an old file, are all the
tools required. These may be found in any blacksmith's shop.
Having decided upon the part of the glass in which you

wish to make the hole, scratch a cross (X) upon the desired
spot with the point of the old file ; then turn the bit of glass
over, and scratch on the other side a similar mark exactly

opposite to the former.

   Fix one of the small centre-punches with its point upwards
in the vice. Let an assistant gently hold the bit of glass

with its scratched point exactly resting upon the point of the

centre-punch.
    Take the other centre-punch in your own left hand and

place its point in the centre of the upper scratch, which is of

course nearly, if not exactly, above the fixed centre-punch.

Now hit the upper centre-punch a very slight blow with
the hammer: a mere touch is almost sufficient. This must

be carefully repeated two or three times. The result of these
blows will be to cause the centre of the cross to be, as it were,

gently pounded.
37S CUTTING A HOLE IN GLASS.

Turn the glass over and let the slight cavity thus formed

rest upon the fixed centre-punch. Repeat the light blows

upon this side of the glass, and after turning it two or three

times, a very small hole will be made through the glass. It

not unfrequently happens that a small crack occurs in the

glass ; but with a little skill this can be cut out with the

pane of the hammer.
   The next process is to enlarge the hole and cut it into the

required shape with the pane of the hammer. This is accom

plished by supporting the glass upon the point of the fixed
centre-punch, very close to the edge required to be cut. A

light blow must then be struck with the pane of the hammer

upon the edge to be broken. This must be repeated until

the required shape is obtained.

The principles on which it depends are, that glass is a

material breaking in every direction with a conchoidal frac

ture, and that the vibrations which would have caused crack

ing or fracture are checked by the support of the fixed centre-

punch in close contiguity with the part to be broken off.
IWhen by hastily performing this operation have caused
Ithe glass to crack,
                        have frequently, by using more care,

cut an opening all round the cracked part, and so let it drop

out without spreading.

This process is rendered still more valuable by the use of
Ithe diamond.
               usually carried in my travels a diamond

Imounted on a small circle of wood, so that could easily cut

out circles of glass with small holes in the centre. The de

scription of this process is sufficient to explain it to an
experienced workman ; but if the reader should wish to

        it,
                                                                                       a
employ  his readiest plan would be to ask such person to

show him how to do it.

The above technical description will doubtless be rather
        THE GRATEFUL GLAZIER.  379

Idry and obscure to the general reader ; so hope to make

him amends by one or two of the consequences which have

resulted to me from having instructed others in the art.

  IIn the year 1825, during a visit to Devonport, had apart
Iments in the house of a glazier, of whom one day inquired

whether he was acquainted with the art of punching a hole

in glass, to which he answered in the negative, and expressed
great curiosity to see it done. Finding that at a short dis

tance there was a blacksmith whom he sometimes employed,

we went together to pay him a visit, and having selected

Ifrom his rough tools the centre-punches and the hammer,

proceeded to explain and execute the whole process, with

which my landlord was highly delighted.

  IOn the eve of my departure asked for the landlord's ac

count, which was duly sent up and quite correct, except the
Iomission of the charge for the apartments which had agreed
Ifor at two guineas a week.
                             added the four weeks for my

Ilodgings, and the next morning, having placed the total

amount upon the bill, sent for my host in order to pay him,

remarking that he had omitted the principal article of his

Iaccount, which had inserted.

He replied that he had intentionally omitted the lodgings,

as he could not think of taking payment for them from a

Igentleman who had done him so great a service. Quite un

conscious of having rendered him any service, asked him to

Iexplain how had done him any good. He replied that he

had the contract for the supply and repair of the whole of

Ithe lamps of Devonport, and that the art in which had in

structed him would save him more than twenty pounds a
Iyear.
        found some difficulty in prevailing on my grateful

landlord to accept what was justly his due.

  I IThe second instance shall mention of the use to which
380 MODESTY REWARDED.

tarned this art of punching a hole in glass occurred in Italy,

at Bologna.

  I spent some weeks very agreeably in that celebrated uni

versity, which is still proud of having had the discoverer of

the circulation of the blood amongst its students. One

morning an Italian friend accompanied me round the town,

to point out the more remarkable shops and manufactories.

Passing through a small street, he remarked that there was a
very well-informed man who kept a little shop for the sale of

needles and tape and a few other such articles, but who also

made barometers and thermometers, and had a very respect
Iable knowledge of such subjects.
                                   proposed that we should

look in upon him as we were passing through the street. On

Ientering his small shop, was introduced to its tenant, who

conversed very modestly and very sensibly upon various ma

thematical instruments.

  I had invited several of my friends and professors to spend

the evening with me at my hotel, for the purpose of examin
I Iing various instruments had brought with me.
                                                 knew that

the sight of them would be quite a treat to the occupier

Iof this little shop, so mentioned the idea to my friend, and

inquired whether my expected guests in the evening would

Ithink had taken a liberty with them in inviting the humble

constructor of instruments at the same time.

My friend and conductor immediately replied that he was

well known to most of the professors, and much respected by

them, and that they would think it very kind of me to give

Ihim that opportunity of seeing the instruments possessed.
I therefore took the opportunity of asking him to join the

very agreeable party which assembled in my apartments in

the evening.

We now made a tour of the city, and reached the factory
                PRETENSION REPRESSED.                     . 281

of the chief philosophical instrument-maker of Bologna.
He took great pleasure in showing me the various instru
ments he manufactured; but still there was a certain air

of presumption about him, which seemed to indicate a
Iless amount of knowledge than should otherwise have
Iassigned to him.
                   had on the preceding day mentioned to

my Italian friend, who now accompanied me, that there

existed a very simple method of punching a hole in a piece

of glass, which, as he was much interested about
                                           it             pro

mised to show him on the earliest opportunity. I
                                                    it,I

                                                         I
      Finding myself in the workshop of the first instrument

maker in Bologna, and observing the few tools wanted,

thought ;     good opportunity to explain the process to my

           it

            Ia
friend but could only do this by applying to the master

for the loan of some tools.  also thought possible that the
                             I
method was known to him, and that, having more practice,
                                        ;
he would do the work better than myself.

I it I  therefore mentioned the circumstance of my promise,

and asked the master whether he was acquainted with the
process. His reply was, " Yes we do every day."
                                           it             then

                                                       I

handed over to him the punch and the piece of glass, de

claring that mere amateur, who only occasionally practised
         a

      could not venture to operate before the first instrument-

maker in Bologna, and in his own workshop.

      had observed certain shade of surprise glance across the
                a
face of one of the workmen who heard the assertion of thisa

                                           it I
                                                               a
                                                                iIt,
daily practice of his master's, and, as had my doubts of

contrived to put him in such position that he must either
                             a

retract his statement or else attempt to do the trick.

      He then called for flat piece of iron with small hole in

it. Placing the piece of glass upon the top of this bit of

iron, and holding the punch upon directly above the aper
382 AWFUL SMASH.

ture, he gave a strong blow of the hammer, and smashed the

glass into a hundred pieces.

  I Iimmediately began to console him, remarking that did

not myself always succeed, and that unaccountable circum

stances sometimes defeated the skill even of the most accom
Iplished workman.
                   then advised him to try a larger* piece
Iof glass. Just after the crash had put my hand upon a
Iheavier hammer, which immediately withdrew on his per

ceiving it. Thus encouraged, he called for a larger piece of

glass, and a bit of iron with a smaller hole in it. In the

meantime all the men in the shop rested from their work to

witness this feat of every-day occurrence. Their master now
Iseized the heavier hammer, which
                                   had previously just

touched. Finding him preparing for a strong and decided

Iblow, turned aside my head, in order to avoid seeing him

blush --and also to save my own face from the coming cloud

of splinters.

  I just saw the last triumphant flourish of the heavy hammer

waving over his head, and then heard, on its thundering fall,
the crash made by the thousand fragments of glass which it

scattered over the workshop.

  I still, however, felt it my duty to administer what consola
I Ition could to a fellow-creature in distress ; so repeated to

him (which was the truth) that I, too, occasionally failed. Then

looking at my watch, and observing to my companion that
Ithese tools were not adapted to my mode of work, reminded
Ihim that we had a pressing engagement.
                                         then took leave

of this celebrated instruruent-maker, with many thanks for all

he had shown me.

  IAfter such a misadventure, thought it would be cruel to

   * The larger the piece of glass to be punched the more certainly the pro
cess succeeds.
          ROUGH GLASS MADE TRANSPARENT.                       383

invite him to meet the learned professors who would be as

I Isembled at my evening party, especially as knew that

should be asked to show my friends a process with which he

had assured me he was so familiar. The unpretending maker
of thermometers and barometers did however join the party ;
and the kind and considerate manner in which my guests of

the university and of the city treated him raised both parties

Iin my estimation.
      will here mention another mode of treating glass, which

may occasionally be found worth communicating.

Ground glass is frequently employed for transmitting light

into an apartment, whilst it effectually prevents persons on

the outside from seeing into the room. Rough plate-glass is
now in very common use for the same purpose. In both

these circumstances there is a reciprocity, for those who are

within such rooms cannot see external forms.

   It may in some cases be desirable partially to remedy this

Idifficulty. In my own case, cut with my diamond a small

disc of window-glass, about two inches in diameter, and ce

mented it with Canada balsam to the rough side of my rough
Iplate-glass.
               then suspended a circular piece of card by a

thread, so as to cover the circular disc. When the Canada

balsam is dry, it fills up all the little inequalities of the rough

glass with a transparent substance, of nearly the same re

fracting power ; consequently, on drawing aside the suspended

card, the forms of external objects become tolerably well

defined.

   The smooth surface of the rough plate-glass, not being

perfectly flat, produces a slight distortion, which might, if it

were worth while, be cured by cementing another disc of
glass upon that side. In case the ground glass itself happens

to be plate-glass, the image of external objects is perfect.
384 THE CAVES OF ADELSBURG.

IOccasionally met, in the course of my travels, with

various things which, though not connected with my own
Ifpursuits, might yet be highly interesting to others.
                                                        the

cost suited my purse, and the subject was easily carried, or the

Ispecimen of importance, have in many instances purchased

them. Such was the case with respect to that curious creature

the proteus anguineua, a creature living only in the waters of

I Idark caverns, which has eyes, but the eylids cannot open.
   When visited the caves of Adelsburg, in Styria, in

quired whether any of these singular creatures could be
I Iprocured.
purchased all could get, being six in number.
I Iconveyed them in large bottles full of river water, which

changed every night. During the greater part of their journey

the bottles were placed in large leathern bags lashed to the

barouche seat of my calash.

   The first of these pets died at Vienna, and another at
Prague. After three months, two only survived, and reached

IBerlin, where they also died -- fear from my servant having

supplied them with water from a well instead of from a river.

   At night they were usually placed in a large wash-hand

basin of water, covered over with a napkin.

   They were very excitable under the action of light. On

Iseveral occasions when have visited them at night with a

candle, one or more have jumped out of their watery home.

   These rare animals were matters of great interest to many

Inaturalists whom visited in my rambles, and procured for

me several very agreeable acquaintances. When their gloomy

Ilives terminated preserved them in spirits, and sent the spe

cimens to the collections of our own universities, to India, and

some of our colonies.

IWhen was preparing materials for the ' Economy of Manu
             GUESSES AT MY VOCATION.  385

Ifacturcs,'  bad occasion to travel frequently through our
Imanufacturing and mining districts. On these occasions

found the travellers' inn or the travellers' room was usually

the best adapted to my purpose, both in regard to economy

Iand to information. As my inquiries had a wide range,

found ample assistance in carrying them on. Nobody doubted

Ithat was one of the craft ; but opinions were widely dif
Iferent as to the department in which practised my vocation.

  IIn one of my tours passed a very agreeable week at the

Commercial Hotel at Sheffield. The society of the travellers'

room is very fluctuating. Many of its frequenters arrive at

night, have supper, breakfast early the next morning, and

are off soon after : others make rather a longer stay. One

evening we sat up after supper much later than is usual, dis

cussing a variety of commercial subjects.

  I IWhen came down rather late to breakfast, found only

one of my acquaintance of the previous evening remaining.

IHe remarked that we had had a very agreeable party last

night, in which cordially concurred. He referred to the

Iintelligent remarks of some of the party in our discussion,

and then added, that when left them they began to talk
I Iabout me.
             merely observed that felt myself quite safe in

Itheir hands, but should be glad to profit by their remarks.

It appeared, when retired for the night, they debated about

Iwhat trade travelled for. "The tall gentleman in the

corner," said my informant, " maintained that you were in

the hardware line ; whilst the fat gentleman who sat next to

you at supper was quite sure that you were in the spirit

trade." Another of the party declared that they were both

mistaken : he said he had met you before, and that you were

Itravelling for a great iron-master. " Well," said I, " you,

presume, knew my vocation better than our friends." --" Yes,"
                                                          2c
                   386 THE PHILOSOPHER FOUND OUT.

            Isaid my informant, " knew perfectly well that you were in

                   the Nottingham lace trade." The waiter now appeared with
                   his bill, and announced that my friend's trap was at the door.

             I had passed nearly a week at the Commercial Inn without

                   having broken the eleventh commandment ; but the next day

           I was doomed to be found out. A groom, in the gay livery

                  of the Fitzwilliams, having fruitlessly searched for me at all
                   the great hotels, at last in despair thought of inquiring for

             Ime at the Commercial Hotel. The landlady was sure was

                  not staying in her house ; but, in deference to the groom's

           Iurgent request, went to make inquiries amongst her guests.
                       was the first person she questioned, and was, of course,
                    obliged to admit the impeachment. The groom brought a
                  very kind note from the late Lord Fitzwilliam, who had
                  heard of my being in Sheffield, to invite me to spend a week
                    at Wentworth.

              I gladly availed myself of this invitation, and passed it very

                  agreeably. During the few first days the party in the house
                  consisted of the family only. Then followed three days of
                    open house, when their friends came from great distances,
                    even as far as sixty or eighty miles, and that at a period

                      when railroads were unknown.
                        On the great day upwards of a hundred persons sat down

                  to dinner, a large number of whom slept in the house. This
                    was the first time the ancient custom of open house had been
                  kept up at Wentworth since the death of the former Earl, the
                  celebrated Whig Lord Lieutenant of Yorkshire.

>

                                         M
                  CHAFfER XXIX.

                          MIRACLES.

Difference Engine set ro as to follow a given law for a vast period -- Tims
   to change to another law of equally vast or of greater duration, and so
  on -- Parallel between the successive creations of animal life -- The
   Author visited Dublin at the first Meeting of the British Association -- Is
  the Guest of Trinity College --Innocently wears a Waistcoat of the wrong
  colour--Is informed of the sad fact -- Rushes to a Tailor to rectify it --
   Finds nothing but party-colours -- Nearly loses his Breakfast, and is
   thought to be an amazing Dandy -- The Dean thinks better of the Philo
   sopher, and accompanied him to Killarney -- The Philosopher preaches a
   Sermon to the Divine by the side of the Lake.

After that portion of the Difference Engine which was

completed had been for some months promoted from the work

Ishop to my drawing-room, met two of my friends from Ire

Iland --Dr. Lloyd, the present Provost of Trinity College, and
Dr. Robinson, of Armagh.  invited them to breakfast, that

they might have a full opportunity of examining its structure.

I invited also another friend to meet them -- the late Pro

fessor Malthus.                                        I then
    After breakfast we adjourned to the drawing-room.

proceeded to explain the mechanism of the Engine, and to

cause it to calculate Tables. One of the party remarked
two axes in front of the machine which had not hitherto been

performing any work, and inquired for what purpose they
Iwere so placed.
                  informed him that these axes had been so

placed in order to illustrate a series of calculations of the

                                     2c2
ass LAWS CHANGING

Imost complicated kind, to which they contributed.   ob

served that the Tables thus formed were of so artificial and

Iabstract a nature, that could not foresee the time when

they would be of any use.

This remark additionally excited their curiosity, and they

requested me to set the machine at work to compute such a

table.                                 kind,  I set the Engine

   Having taken a simple case of this
to do its work, and then told them --

That it was now prepared to count the natural numbers ;

but that it would obey this law only as far as the millionth

term.

That after that term it would commence a series, following

a different, but known law, for a very long period.

That after this new law had been fulfilled for another long

period, it would then suddenly abandon
                  I                           and calculate the
                      it I
terms of series following another new law, and so on through
       a                             a
out all time.                                   it,
              it
Of course was impossible to verify these assertions byit

making the machine actually go through the calculationsI
                                                                 it
                                                                                                             ;
but, after having made the Engine count the natural numbers

for some time, proceeded to point out the fact, that was
               I

impossible, by its very structure, that the machine could

record any but the natural numbers before reached the

number 999,990. This made evident to my friends, by
showing them the actual structure of the Engine. Having

demonstrated this to their entire satisfaction,      put the

machine on to the number 999,990, and continued to work

the Engine, when the result had predicted soon arrived.

After the millionth term a new law was taken up, and my

friends were convinced that  must, from the very struc

ture of the machine, continue for very long time, and then
           AT VERY DISTANT INTERVALS.               389

inevitably give place to another new law, and so on through

out all time.

  IWhen they were quite satisfied about this fact, observed

Ithat, in a new engine which was then contemplating, it

would be possible to set it so that--
   1st. It should calculate a Table for any given length of

time, according to any given law.
   2nd. That at the termination of that time it should cease

to compute a Table according to that law ; but that it should
commence a new Table according to any other given law that

might be desired, and should then continue this computation

for any other given period.
   3rd. That this succession of a new law, coming in and con

tinuing during any desired time, and then giving place to
other new laws, in endless but known succession, might be

continued indefinitely.

  I Iremarked that did not conceive the time ever could

arrive when the results of such calculations would be of any
Iutility.
           added, however, that they offered a striking pa

rallel with, although at an immeasurable distance from, the

successive creations of animal life, as developed by the vast
epochs of geological time. The flash of intellectual light

which illuminated the countenances of my three friends at

this unexpected juxtaposition was most gratifying.

   Encouraged by the quick apprehension with which these

Iviews had been accepted, continued the subject, and pointed

out the application of the same reasoning to the nature of

miracles.

The same machine could be set in such a manner that

these laws might exist for any assigned number of times,
whether large or small ; also, that it was not necessary that

these laws should be different, but the same law might, when
390 MIRACLES AND PROPHECY.

the machine was set, be ordered to reappear, after any desired

interval.

Thus we might suppose an observer watching the machine,

to see a known law continually fulfilled, until after a length

ened period, when a new law has been appointed to come in.
This new law might after a single instance cease, and the first
law might again be restored, and continue for another inter

val, when the second new law might again govern the
machine as before for a single instance, and then give place

to the original law.

   This property of a mere piece of mechanism may have a
parallel in the laws of human life. That all men die is the

result of a vast induction of instances. That one or more

men at given times shall be restored to life, may be as much
a consequence of the law of existence appointed for man at

his creation, as the appearance and reappearance of the iso

lated cases of apparent exception in the arithmetical machine.
   But the workings of machinery run parallel to those of in

tellect. The Analytical Engine might be so set, that at defi

nite periods, known only to its maker, a certain lever might

become moveable during the calculations then making. The
consequence of moving it might be to cause the then existing

law to be violated for one or more times, after which the original
law would resume its reign. Of course the maker of the Cal

culating Engine might confide this fact to the person usingif
who would thus be gifted with the power of prophecy he
                                                       it,

foretold the event, or of working miracle at the proper time,
                      a

he withheld his knowledge from those around until the
if

               is
moment of its taking place.
   Such the analogy between the construction of machinery

to calculate and the occurrence of miracles.  A  further illus

tration may be taken from geometry. Curves are represented
SINGULAR POINTS OP CURVES.                           391

by equations. In certain curves there are portions, such as
ovals, disconnected from the rest of the curve. By properly

assigning the values of the constants, these ovals may be

reduced to single points. These singular points may exist

upon a branch of a curve, or may be entirely isolated from it ;

yet these points fulfil by their positions the law of the curve

as perfectly as any of those which, by their juxtaposition and

continuity, form any of its branches.

Miracles, therefore, are not the breach of established laws,

but they are the very circumstances that indicate the exist

ence of far higher laws, which at the appointed time produce

their pre-intended results.                          I had

   In 1835, the British Association visited Dublin.

been anxious to promote this visit, from political as well
                        I had several invitations to the
as scientific motives.
Iresidences of my friends in that hospitable country ; but
Ithought could be of more use by occupying apartments in

Trinity College, which had kindly been placed at my disposal

by the provost and fellows.

  IAfter had enjoyed the college hospitality during three or
Ifour days, was walking with an intimate friend, who sug
Igested to me that was giving great cause of Offence to my

learned hosts. Not having the slightest idea how this could

I Ihave arisen, anxiously inquired by what inadvertence had
Idone so. He observed that it arose from my dress. looked

at the various articles of my costume with a critical eye, and

Icould discover nothing exaggerated in any portion of it.
Ithen begged my friend to explain how had unconsciously
offended in that respect. He replied, " Your waistcoat is of
Ia bright green."
                        became still more puzzled, until he
Iremarked that was wearing O'Connell's colours in the midst
Iof the Protestant University, whose guest was.
392 DIFFICULTY OF CHOOSING

  I thanked my friend sincerely, and requested him to ac
Icompany me to my rooms, that might change the offending

waistcoat. My travelling wardrobe was not large, and, unfor
tunately, we found in it no entirely unobjectionable waistcoat.

I therefore put on an under-waistcoat with a light-blue border,
Iand requested him to accompany me to a tailor's, that
Imight choose an inoffensive colour. As was not to remain
Ilong in Dublin, wished to select a waistcoat which might do

double service, as not too gay for the morning, and not too
dull for the evening.

   On arriving at the tailor's, he placed before me a profusion

Iof beautiful silks, which was assured contained all the
Inewest and most approved patterns. Out of these selected

Iten or a dozen, as best suiting my own taste. then requested

him to remove from amongst them any which might be con
sidered as a party emblem. He took each of them rapidly
up, and tossing it to another part of the counter, pronounced

the whole batch to appertain to one party or the other.

  IThus limited in my choice, was compelled to adopt a

Iwaistcoat of all work, of rather gayer colours than good taste
would willingly have selected for morning use.  explained

to the knight of the thimble my dilemma. He swore upon

the honour of his order that the finished waistcoat should be

at my rooms in the college punctually as the clock struck

eight the next morning.

  IDuring the rest of the day buttoned up my coat, and the

broad light-blue border of my thin under-waistcoat was alone
visible. My modesty, however, was a little uneasy, lest it

Ishould be thought that was wearing the decoration of a

Guelphic knight.

  I rose early the next morning : eight o'clock arrived, but

no waistcoat. The college breakfast in the hall was punctual
A DECENT WAISTCOAT.                                    393

at a quarter past eight ; 8-20 had arrived, but still no waist

coat. At last, at half-past eight, the squire of the faithless

knight of the thimble arrived with the vest.

  IThus equipped, rushed to the hall, and found that my
Icollege friends had waited for my arrival. explained to the
IDean* that had been detained by an unpunctual tailor, who

had not brought home my waistcoat until half an hour after

the appointed time. We then commenced the serious busi

ness which assembled us together. The breakfast was superb,
Iand the society delightful.
                              enjoyed them both, being for

tunately quite unconscious that every eye was examining
Ithe artistic and aesthetic garment with which had been so
Irecently invested.
                     thus acquired for a time the character

of a dandy of the first water. It has not unfrequently been

my fate in life to have gained a character for worth or worth-

Ilessness upon grounds quite as absurd, which have afterwards

seldom taken the trouble to explain.

   The Dean, however, quickly saw through the outer cover

Iing, and before the meeting was over felt that a friendship

had commenced which time could only strengthen. One day,

whilst we were walking together, MacLean told me that he

had heard with great interest from one of his colleagues of

some views of mine relative to miracles, which he wished

much to hear from my own lips.

  I remarked that the explanation of them would require

much more time than we could afford during the bustle of

Ithe Association ; but that should afterwards, at any quiet

time, be delighted to discuss them with him.

  IAfter the meeting of the British Association terminated,

made a short tour to visit some of my friends in the North of

IIreland. On my return to Dublin again found MacLean,

* The Rev. S. J. MacLean, Fellow Trin. Coll., Dublin.
394 THE AUTHOR PREACHES A

and had the good fortune to enjoy his society in a tour which

we took to Killarney.

One fine morning, as we were walking together, it heing

I ISunday, MacLean, looking somewhat doubtfully at me, asked
whether had any objection to go to church.  replied,
" None whatever," and turned towards the church. Before
Iwo reached it an idea occurred to my mind, and said,
" MacLean, you asked me, in the midst of the bustle at

Dublin, about my views respecting miracles. Have you any

objection to take a walk with me by the side of the lake, and

I will give you a sermon upon that subject." --" Not the least,"

replied my friend ; and we turned immediately towards the

banks of that beautiful lake.

  I then proceeded to explain that those views of the appa

rently successive creations opened out to us by geology are

Iin reality the fulfilment of one far more comprehensive law.
  pointed out that a miracle, instead of being a violation of a
law, is in fact the most eminent fulfilment of a vast law--that

it bears the same relation to an apparent law that singular

points of a curve bear to the visible form of that curve. My

Ifriend inquired whether had published anything upon these

subjects. On my answering in the negative, he strongly
Iurged me to do so.
                       remarked upon the extreme difficulty

of making them intelligible to the public. Reverting again

Ito the singular points of curves, observed that the illustra
Ition, which in a few words had placed before him, would be

quite unintelligible even to men of cultivated minds not

familiar with the doctrine of curves.

We had now arrived at a bench, on which we sat. MacLean

wrapt up in the new views thus opened out to his mind,

remained silent for a long interval. At last, turning towards
me, he made these remarks : " How wonderful it is ! Here
         SERMON ON THE BANK OF KILLARNEY.        395

" am I, bound by the duties of my profession to inquire into
" the attributes of the Creator ; bound still more strongly by an
" intense desire to do so ; possessing, like yourself, the same

" powerful science to aid my inquiries ; and yet, within this
" last short half hour, you have opened to me views of the

I" Creator surpassing all of which have hitherto had any con-

" ception !"

These views had evidently made a very deep impression on

his mind. Amidst the beautiful scenery in the South of Ire

land he frequently reverted to the subject ; and, having ac

companied me to Waterford, offered to cross the Channel

Iwith me if could spend one single day at Milford Haven.

Unfortunately, long previous arrangements prevented this
Idelay.
         parted from my friend, who, though thus recently

acquired, seemed, from the coincidence of our thoughts and
Ifeelings, to have been the friend of my youth.
                                                 little
Ithought, on parting, that one whom so much admired, so

highly esteemed, would in a few short months be separated

for ever from the friends who loved him, and from the society

he adorned.
                          CHAPTER XXX,

                                           RELIGION.

                 " JScfore thy holy altar, sacred Truth,
                    I bow in manhood, as I kuelt in youth ;

                   There let me bend till this frail form decay,
                         And my last accents hail thine opening day."

The a jrriori proof of the existence of a Deity -- Proof from Revelation --Dr.
   Johnsons definition of Inspiration -- Various Meaning assigned to the
   word ' Revelation '-- Illustration of transmitted Testimony -- The third
   sonrco of proof of the existence of a Deity -- By an examination of His
   Works -- Effect of hearing the Athanasian Creed read for the first time.

There are three sources from which it is stated that man can
arrive at the knowledge of the existence of a Deity.

   1. The d priori or metaphysical proof. Such is that of
Dr. Samuel Clarke.

   2. From Revelation.
   3. From the examination of the works of the Creator.

   1. The first of these, the a priori proof, is of such a nature
that it can only be apprehended in a high state of civilization,
and then only by the most intellectual. Even amongst that
very limited class it does not, as an argument, command

universal assent.
   2. The argument deduced from revelation is advanced in

many countries aud lor several different forms of faith.
WILFUL ABUSE OF LANGUAGE.  397

When it is sincerely adopted it deserves the most respectful

examination. It must, however, on the other hand, be sub

mitted to the most scrutinizing inquiry. As long as the
believer in any form of revelation maintains it by evidence or
by argument, it is only by such means that it ought to be

questioned.
    When, however, professed believers dare to throw doubt

upon the motives of those whose arguments they are unable
to refute, and still more, when, availing themselves of the
imperfections of language, they apply to their opponents
epithets which they can defend in one sense but know will

be interpreted in another --when they speak of an adversary

as a disbeliever, because, though he believes in the same
general revelation, he doubts the accuracy of certain texts,

or believes in a different interpretation of others -- when they

apply the term infidel, meaning thereby a disbelief in their
own view of revelation, but knowing that it will be under

stood as disbelief in a Deity, --then it is at least allowable to

remind them that they are richly paid for the support of their
own doctrines, whilst those they revile have no such motives

 to influence or to mislead their judgment.
    Before, however, we enter upon that great question it is

 necessary to observe that belief is not a voluntary operation.
 Belief is the result of the influence of a greater or less pre
 ponderance of evidence acting upon the human mind.

   It ought also to be remarked that the word revelation
 assumes, as a fact, that a Being exists from whom it pro

 ceeds ; whilst, on the other hand, the existence of a Deity is
 possible without any revelation.

     The first question that arises is the meaning of the word

 revelation. In its ordinary acceptation it is said to be a

 direct communication from the Deity to an individual human
308 INSPIRATION.

being. Dr. Johnson remarks :-- " Inspiration is when an
" overpowering impression of any propositions is made upon
" the mind by God himself, that gives a convincing and
" indubitable evidence of the truth and divinity of it." Be
it so ; but then, as such, it is not revelation to any other

human being. All others receive it from the statement of

the person to whom the revelation was vouchsafed. To all
others its truth depends entirely on human testimony. Now
in a certain sense all our faculties being directly given to
us by the Supreme Being might be said to be revelations.
But this is clearly not the religious meaning of the word. In
the latter sense it is a direct special communication of know
ledge to one or more persons which is not given to the rest
of the race.

    Before any person can admit the truth of a revelation
asserted by another, he must have clearly established in his
own mind what evidence he would require to believe in a
special revelation to himself.

    But when he communicates this revelation to his fellow-

creatures that which may truly be a revelation to hini is not

revelation to them. It is to them merely human testimony,

which they are bound to examine more strictly from its abnor
mal nature.

   Let us now suppose that this believer in his own special
revelation offers to work a miracle in proof of the truth of his

doctrine, and even, further, that he does perform a miracle.

Those who witness it have now before them far higher evi
dence of inspiration than that of the prophet's testimony.
They have the evidence of their own senses that an act con
trary to the ordinary laws of nature has been performed.

    But even here the ainount of conviction will be influenced
by the state of knowledge the spectator of the miracle him
                      REVELATION.  399

self possesses of the laws of nature which he believes he has

thus seen violated.*

   Granting him, however, the most profound knowledge, the
evidence influencing his own mind will be inferior to that

which acts upon the mind of the inspired worker of the
Ifmiracle.
            there are more witnesses than one thus qualified,

this will to a certain extent augment the evidence, although

a large number might not give it a proportional addition of

weight.

  It would be profane to compare evidence derived directly

from the Almighty, which must necessarily be irresistible,

with the testimony of man, which must always be carefully
weighed by taking into account the state of his knowledge,

his prejudices, his interests, and his truthfulness. On the
other hand, it would lead to endless confusion, and be destruc

tive to all reasoning on the subject, to apply the same word

' Eevelation ' to things so different in their nature as --

   The immediate act of the Deity.
   The impression produced by that act on the mind of

the person inspired.

   The description of it given by him in the language of

the people he addressed.

   The record made of his description by those who
heard it.

   The transmission of this through various languages

and people to the present day.

    We have now arrived at the highest external evidence man
can have --the declaration of inspiration by the prophet, sup-

  I* have adopted in the text that view of the nature of miracles which

prevailed many years ago. In 1838, 1 published, in the " Ninth Bridgewatcr
Treatise," my own views on those important subjects --the nature of miracles
and of prophecy. Those opinions have been received and adopted by many
of the mast profound thinkers of very different religious opinions.
400 TRANSMITTED TESTIMONY.

ported by an admitted miracle performed before competent
witnesses, to prove tbo truth of his inspiration.

But to all who were not present, the evidence of this is

entirely dependent on the truth and even upon the accuracy

of human testimony.

At every step of its transmission it undergoes some varia

tion in the words in which it is related ; and without the

least want of good faith at any stage, the mere imperfection

of language will necessarily vary the terms by which it is

described. Even when written language has conveyed it to

paper as a MSS., there may be several different manuscripts
by different persons. Even in the extraordinary case of two

MSS. agreeing perfectly there remains a perpetual source of

doubt as to the exact interpretation arising from the conti

nually fluctuating meaning of the words themselves.

   Few persons who have not reflected deeply, or had a very
wide experience, are at all aware of the errors arising from

this source.
   There is a game occasionally played in society which

eminently illustrates the value of testimony transmitted with

the most perfect good faith through a succession of truthful
Itpersons.
            is called Russian Scandal, and is thus played :--

    One of the party writes a short simple tale, perhaps a

single anecdote. The original composer of the tale, whom we
will call A, retires into another room with B, to whom he

communicates it. A then returns to the party, and sends in
C, who is told by B the tale he had just learnt. B then

returns to the party and sends in D, who is informed of the

anecdote by C, and so on until the story has been transmitted

through twelve educated and truthful witnesses.

The twelfth then relates to the whole party the story he has

just heard : after that the original written document is read.
RUSSIAN SCANDAL.  401

The wit or fun of the transmitted story is invariably gone,

and nothing but an unmeaning platitude generally remains.

    One very interesting case occurred a few years ago in
which the wit of the original story had evidently been lost, but
had afterwards been revived in a different form in the latter
part of its transmission. The story at starting consisted of

the following anecdote :--
   The Duke of Rutland and Theodore Hook having dined

with the Lord Mayor, were looking for their hats previously
to their departure. The Duke, unable to find his own, said to

Ihis friend : " Hook, have lost my castor." The Lord Chief

Baron, Sir Frederick Pollock, was at that moment passing
down the stairs. Hook perceiving him, replied instantly,
" Never mind, take Pollock's " (Pollux).

    The story told at the conclusion, after a dozen transmissions,
was thus :--

    Theodore Hook and the Duke of Rutland were dining with
the Bishop of Oxford. Both being equally incapable of finding
their respective hats, the Duke said to the wit, " Hook, you

I Ihave stolen my castor." " No," replied the prince of jokers,

" haven't stolen your castor, but should have no objection
to take your beaver ;" alluding to Belvoir Castle, the splendid
seat of the Duke of Rutland, which in the language of the
day is pronounced precisely in the same way as the name of
that animal whom man robs of his great-coat in order to

make a covering for his own skull.

   It requires considerable training to become an accurate

witness of facts. No two persons, however well trained, ever
express, in the same form of words, the series of facts they

have both observed.

3. There remains a third source from which we arrive at

                                                                                       2D
402 THE BELIEF IN THE CREATOR FROM nlS WORKS.

the knowledge of the existence of a supreme Creator, namely,
from an examination of his works. Unlike transmitted testi
mony, which is weakened at every stage, this evidence derives
confirmation from the progress of the individual as well as
from the advancement of the knowledge of the race.

   Almost all thinking men who have studied the laws which
govern the animate and the inanimate world around us,
agree that the belief in the existence of one Supreme
Creator, possessed of infinite wisdom and power, is open to far
less difficulties than the supposition of the absence of any
cause, or of the existence of a plurality of causes.

   In the works of the Creator ever open to our examination,
we possess a firm basis on which to raise the superstructure of

an enlightened creed. The more man inquires into the laws
which regulate the material universe, the more he is con
vinced that all its varied forms arise from the action of a few

simple principles. These principles themselves converge, with
accelerating force, towards some still more comprehensive
law to which all matter seems to be submitted. Simple as
that law may possibly be, it must be remembered that it is
only one amongst an infinite number of simple laws: that
each of these laws has consequences at least as extensive as
the existing one, and therefore that the Creator who selected
the present law must have foreseen the consequences of all
 other laws.

    The works of the Creator, ever present to our senses, give a
living and perpetual testimony of his power and goodness far

surpassing any evidence transmitted through human testimony.
 The testimony of man becomes fainter at every stage of trans
 mission, whilst each new inquiry into the works of the
 Almighty gives to us more exalted views of Ins wisdom, his

 goodness, and his power.
               THE ATHANASIAN CREED.                                       403

I IWhen was between sixteen and seventeen years of age,
Iheard, or rather attended, for the first time, to the words of
Ithe Athanasian Creed.
                             felt the utmost disgust at the direct

Icontradiction in terms which its words implied ; and during

several weeks recurred, at intervals, to the Prayer-Book to

Iassure myself that rightly remembered its singular and self-
Icontradictory assertions. On inquiry amongst my seniors,

was assured that it was all true, and that it was part of the

Christian religion, and that it was most wicked to doubt a
Isingle sentence of it. Whereupon
                                   was much alarmed,
Iseeing that found it absolutely impossible to believe
                               I                                           and
                                     I
                                          II

                                                                      it,
Iconsequently,               were an essential dogma, clearly did not

    Ibelong to that faith.

          IIn the course of my inquiries, met with the work upon the

                    ifTrinity, by Dr. Samuel Clarke. This carefully examined,
                         it
and although very far from being satisfied, ceased from

further inquiry. This change arose probably from my having

acquired the much more valuable work of the same author,

on the Being and Attributes of God. This studied, and felt
                               I
                                         I
that its doctrine was much more intelligible and satisfactory

than that of the former work.  may now state, as the result

of a long life spent in studying the works of the Creator, that

  am satisfied they afford far more satisfactory and more con
vincing proofs of the existence of supreme Being than any
                               a

evidence transmitted through human testimony can possibly

supply.

  If were to express my opinion of the Athanasian Creed

merely from my experience of the motives and actions of

                               it

                                                            by
                                                               a
mankind, should say that was written                              clever, but

most unscrupulous person, who did not believe one syllable of

the doctrine, --that he purposely asserted and reiterated pro

positions which contradict each other in terms, in order that

                                                    2d2
404 THE BASIS OF VIRTUE IS TRUTH.

in after and more enlightened times, he should not be sup
posed to have believed in the religion which he had, from

worldly motives, adopted.

   The Athanasian Creed is a direct contradiction in terms :

if three things can be one thing, then the whole science of

arithmetic is at once annihilated, and those wonderful laws,

which, as astronomers have shown, govern the solar system, are

mere dreams. If, on the other hand, it is attempted to be

shown that there may be some mystic sense in which three

and one are the same thing, then all language through which

alone man can exert his reasoning faculty becomes useless,

because it contradicts itself and is untrue.*
   The great basis of virtue in man is truth --that
                                                     is            the con
                                                              is,
stant ajjplication of the same word to the same thing.
                                                     number--the
The first element of accurate knowledge

foundation and the measure of all he knows of the material

world.

   believe these views of the Athanasian Creed are
I                                 is                                no

                                                it

                                                                by
means singular, --that they are indeed very generally held,
Ifalthough vefy rarely asserted.
                                  such the case, were wise

to take the opportunity which the new Commission for the

revision of the Liturgy presents, to remove from the Rubric

doctrines so thoroughly destructive of all true religion, and
about which the author, doubtless in mockery, so compla
cently tells us, that whosoever does not believe them " without

doubt, he shall perish everlastingly."
   The true value of the Christian religion rests, not upon

speculative views of the Creator, which must necessarily
be different in each individual, according to the extent of the
knowledge of the finite being, who employs his own feeble

powers in contemplating the infinite but rests upon those
        *
                                                  :

                                       it
        See Appendix, Note B.
       IDENTITY DEPENDS ON MEMORY.     405

doctrines of kindness and benevolence which that religion

claims and enforces, not merely in favour of man himself, but
of every creature susceptible of pain or of happiness.

   A curious reflection presents itself when we meditate upon

a state of rewards and punishments in a future life. We

must possess the memory of what we did during our existence

upon this earth in order to give them those characteristics.

   In fact, memory seems to be the only faculty which must
of necessity be preserved in order to render a future state

possible.

  If memory be absolutely destroyed, our personal identity is

lost.

   Further reflection suggests that in a future state we may, as
it were, awake to the recollection that, previously to this our

present life, we existed in some former state, possibly in many

former ones, and that the then state of existence may have

been the consequences of our conduct in those former stages.

   It would be a very interesting research if naturalists could

devise any means of showing that the dragon-fly, in its three
stages of a grub beneath the soil -- an animal living in the

water -- and that of a flying. insect --had in the last stage any

memory of its existence in its first.

Another question connected with this subject offers still

greater difficulty. Man possesses five sources of knowledge

through his senses. He proudly thinks himself the highest

work of the Almighty Architect ; but it is quite possible that
Ifhe may be the very lowest.
                              other animals possess senses

of a different nature from ours, it can scarcely be possible

that we could ever be aware of the fact. Yet those animals,

having other sources of information and of pleasure, might,

though despised by us, yet enjoy a corporeal as well as an
intellectual existence far higher than our own.
CHAPTER XXXI.

A VISION.

How, when, and where this vision occurred it is unnecessary

for me at present to state. It did not ariso under tho action

of the laughing-gas or of chloroform, but by some much
Imore real and immediate spiritual action.
                                            had no per
I Iception of body or of matter, yet felt that was in the

presence of a reasoning being of a different order from man.

Language was not the means of our communication ; yet it

Ibecame necessary, in order to bo intelligible, when wrote

down the facts immediately after that singular event --but

language itself is quite insufficient to give an adequate idea

of its immense apparent duration.

  ITho first difficulty felt in this communion with an un

earthly Spirit was the notion of space. Our views of it

differed widely. On many points, as, for instance, measure,

we apprehended each other perfectly, for each referred to
the height of an individual of his own race -- of course about

Isix feet. At last discovered that my idea of space, which

was founded upon vacuity, was exactly the reverse of that
Iof the Spirit, which was based upon solidity.
                                                will now,
I Ias far as can, place before my reader the information

received.

  IThe first desire expressed to the Spirit was to learn, if

possible, his view of the origin of all things. lie stated that
THE CONSEQUENCES OF DOUBT.  407

the records of his race, which he declared was the highest in
creation, went hack, with great certainty, for myriads of
years before all other created beings : that previously to this,
their history was somewhat obscure, but had recently been

placed upon a much surer footing by some of their most

prominent Spirits.

   (a.) In the beginning all space was fluid--apparently one
universal whitish liquid extended in all directions through

Iwhat we should call space ; so thought at first that this might

have some relation to the " milky way." Its temperature

was considerable ; and in about every thousand years a torrent
of this fluid, of a still higher temperature, passed through

space with a kind of gushing rush. It was peopled by

myriads of happy spirits floating about in it.

   After long ages of happiness a dispute arose between two

Spirits as to the possibility of the existence of matter under
any other form than that of a fluid. The Power which
controlled their destiny, justly angry at their presumption,

threw into the fluid a very small piece of what, as far as

I could understand, wras like organic matter.

    (b.) The effect was astounding : all the fluid in contact with
this intrusive piece of matter gradually lost its fluidity, and a
new state of matter or of space arose which had been un

known in all past time. The change advanced slowly but

certainly, on every side of the intruded matter. In its new

Iform, as far as could make out, space became elastic gela

tinous matter. The two quarrelsome Spirits were the first
to be surrounded in it. None in the immediate presence of

this new kind of space could move away, and absorption went
on rapidly imprisoning millions of beings.

   A great controversy arose as to the state of those embedded

i n the jelly. Some supposed that they were miserably squeezed,
   408 SPACE TOO LARGE FOR ITSELF.

   and maintained that they deserved to be thoroughly wretched.

   Whilst others asserted, that being entirely relieved from
   movement, theirs must be a state of perfect blessedness, their

   whole faculties being absorbed in contemplation. In the
   midst of these discussions the process of jellification was

   advancing more and more rapidly, and in ten thousand years

   the whole of infinite fluidity throughout all space, with all

   its myriads of Beings embedded in                                      was transformed into
   a
          (c)

                    I
                                                                     it,
   tlns new form of space. From the description conveyed to

   me by the Spirit, should infer that the whole of what we

   call infinite space had now become more nearly like "blanc

   mange than any other sub-aerial substance.

   After a state of repose of many hundred thousand years

      new catastrophe occurred. Space became too large even

   for itself. Itj then suffered, for many hundred thousand

   years, enormous compression. During this long period all

   its embedded Spirits perished, and space itself, during six

   hundred thousand years, became one vast and solid desert,

   containing no living beings.

      But the vast periods of the past were as nothing compared
   with the long series of cycles which now succeeded --each

   in itself comprising millions of years.

   About this time recorded history began, and believed,                  is
                                                                                               of by
   the Spirit with whom was in conference, to be as authentic
   I

   as the nature of the circumstances admit.

   One solitary survivor seems to have escaped the crash

   systems and the condensation of space. He- proceeded to cut

   himself into two parts, and to advise each part to follow out

   the same course, directing them to transmit the command of

   their first parent throughout all time. Alone, in the midst            of

   infinite solidity, the newly-severed beings, setting themselves

   back to back, exerted force. Thus urged, matter itself gave

L
CONVERSION OF ATTICS INTO CELLARS.  409

way, and they occupied an elongated hollow space. Then
again bisecting themselves, they further lengthened the path.
After ten thousand years they began to exert their energies
in the transverse directions of that path, and thus widened it.
The race then began to form chambers, each for himself, into
which he might retire for abstruse calculations, the nature of
which seemed almost beyond the remotest reach of utility,
although not beyond the power of the Analytical Engine.
Thus vast cities, as it were, became formed, penetrating in
every direction through solid space.

    (d.) After millions of years of industry quietness and calcula

tions, a most extraordinary catastrophe occurred. It was with

Ithe greatest difficulty that could discover its nature, or how
Ito explain it in ordinary language. The nearest approach

can make towards its explanation is this :--It seemed, from

what my spiritual informant communicated, that the whole

universe was lifted up bodily, and then borne rapidly back
with a great shock, thus disarranging everything, and destroy
ing millions of their race.

   But the most incomprehensible part of this historic narra
tion was, that on the survivors recovering their senses, they
found that everything which had formerly been on their right
hand was now on their left. They also observed, to their still
greater dismay, that every abode in the universe was turned
topsy-turvy, so that the surviving philosophers, who had
retired to their attics to study, suddenly found themselves in
their cellars.

  I have conveyed, as carefully as the nature of the subject

admits, the impressions this relation made upon me, some
times assisted in my slow apprehensions by another unem-

Ibodied Spirit, whom, to distinguish from the relator, shall

call Mathesis.
410 TI1E TRUE USE OF FIGURES.

Whenever a man can get hold of numbers, they are in

valuable : if correct, they assist in informing his own mind,

but they are still more useful in deluding the minds of others.

Numbers are the masters of the weak, but the slaves of the
Istrong.
          therefore earnestly pressed for more exact informa

tion as to the possible number of years; but it appeared

                                                even within a few
beyond the Spirit's power to estimate           it
                                                    is it,
millions. He mentioned incidentally that the last vast period
                                                                     a
he had just described was merely one of many others of
                                                                               ; it
similar extent: also, that though these periods were not

actually equal, the difference, which even in extreme cases

only reached hundred thousand years, was not worth con
I
                          a
                                    by

                                             a
sidering.
   To gratify my longing desire for information on this most

important subject, the Spirit proceeded to inform me that
their histories recorded large number of these successive
catastrophes, and that they were succeeded by new and
more terrible one, which he was proceeding to explain, when

interrupted him       asking for an approximate estimate of

their number. Aware of my anxious desire for numerical

accuracy, he said he could, in this one instance, gratify
fully. " If there is," said my informant, " any one point
" better established than all others,
                                                that there had oc-

" curred exactly one hundred and twenty-one of these avatars

" of destruction."

now felt as           had discovered one solitary fixed point in
I

                   a

              iIf
the vast chaos of time. My guide described to me that, after

the termination of this system of one hundred and twenty-
one cycles, new and more terrific system of events fol

lowed each other.

   First, however, he said he must mention an interreg
num, irregular in its progress, but still of vast duration
                VARIOUS SHAKES AND SMASHES.                          411

in fact, some of his race had been able to prove that it

occupied at least three times as long as any one of those just

described.

   (e.) It commenced by a motion very like that to which

space itself had been submitted at the end of each avatar,

finishing with a smash, and followed by a period of repose

of about ten thousand years. It however differed from those

avatars inasmuch as there was no inversion of the position of

cellar and attic.

  (/.) A new form of shaking of universal solid space now

arose, much more frequent but less destructive than the

former. It occurred about once in two years, and was re

peated many hundred thousand times.

(g.) Again a period exactly similar to that recorded in

(e)  occurred.

(h.) This was followed by long series of movements of all
                          a

                            I

                                                               a
                                                                it,
solidity, approaching, as far as could understand                    to an

oscillating or wave motion. This continued without inter

mission during exactly three of those cycles whose precise

number had been preserved.

   (*.) During the whole of this period there was great de

struction of the race. A universal sickness arose and con

tinued more or less, so that multitudes actually perished, and

those who escaped could scarcely carry on the ordinary calcu

lations necessary for their existence.

   (/.) Another period followed, ending with smash exces
sively like (e).

  (£.) Then followed period of shaking like that in (/).

   (Z.) Then another smash like (e).

   (m.) Period of long repose.
   After this came long state of absolute rest.
                a
                     a
                                                              a

Such was the dawn of the most terrible, as well as the
412 A COMMISSION SENT TO EXPLORE.

most recent, of these vast changes in the universe which had

been so well related by my ethereal guide.

   (w.) The temperature of the universe had been uniform
throughout many millions of years : it now began to change in

different isolated places. Increased cold in some parts drove

the inhabitants from their dwellings. This was followed by

torrents of invisible air, bringing infection and death to

millions of their race. Public opinion was roused, and their

academies of science and of arts were urged to devise

a remedy. An expedition was sent by their school of

Science and of Geology to endeavour to trace the origin of

this plague.

The Commission, after long investigation, reported that they

had penetrated solid space in their usual way, putting each

other back to back, and pressing the foremost forward. It

also stated that one of them had invented a method of

arrangement of the members in a kind of wedge form, which

they found much more effective for their object. The result

of this, however, was that the leader of the column got so

many squeezes, that all their best Spirits declined a position

for which coarser animals were better fitted. Consequently,

most of their Presidents of scientific bodies were selected from

what we should call the " Demi-monde " of science.

The first report of this Commission stated that, after pene

trating space (by pushing) through many thousand miles,

they had reached the cause of all the evil. They had ascer

tained that it arose from the fact they had discovered, --that
space itself was discontinuous :--that they had reached a spot

              it
                                              it,

                                                                                                  :
where there was a kind of chasm in  into which some of

them tumbled, and were with difficulty extricated -- in fact,

they reported that was only necessary to send proper persons

to fill up this chasm in order to restore the universe to health.
WELL FED AND WELL PAID ON RETURN.                                                            413

Great rejoicings were made on the return of this Com

mission. Public meetings were held, speeches were made,

papers were read, and medals were lavished. Those who

had interest used their services on this committee to justify

their promotion, each in his own different line. Those who

had no interest as well as those who had, were anointed

Idaily during twelve months with what can but very im

perfectly describe by calling it lip-salve. All this while they

Iwere fed at the public expense with royal food, which was

highly coveted ; but as far as could make out, its taste

must have been somewhat intermediate between rancid butter

and flummery. Whatever this may have been, they relished
it highly, and in truth it seems to have been well suited to

their organs of digestion.

Time, however, went on ; the pestilence increased. Strange

reports arose : first, that space itself was decaying ; then, that
there existed somewhere in decayed space an immense

dragon whose breath produced the pestilence, and who swal

lowed up thousands of Spirits at each mouthful.
   Another Commission was sent, with instructions to fill up

the hole in space. This was supposed to be a great step in

advance. Having penetrated a very short distance beyond

the celebrated chasm, they found another just like and on
(
            ).

                                                                     :

                                                      a

                                                 it
                                                                                        it,
the same level. They found the first chasm slightly curved,

which had indeed been remarked by an unpretending member

of the former Commission but so simple a remark was not

thought worth reporting. The second chasm also was found
slightly curved, but its curvature was in an opposite direction,

presenting rudely the appearance of two parentheses, thus
             Upon this discovery the Commission were inclined

to return and report that series of chasms occurred in

advance of the first, and that  would be useless --indeed,
414 THE MODEL CHAIRMAN.

that it would bo highly dangerous -- to open more chasms.

One of the most modest of the Commissioners, who had been

snubbed on the former occasion, suggested, however, that

these slightly-curved chasms might possibly bo portions of

some vast circular crack : an idea which was ridiculed as a

wild hypothesis by the chairman, quizzed by the secretary,
and laughed at by all the rest. Fortunately they were per

suaded to excavate a few yards more on the second vertical

chasm or crack, when it became probable that the single

dissentient was right. It soon became certain, and before

half the circle had been uncovered, each member of the com

mission thought  he had himself been the first to discov*er its
circular shape.

But the chairman was a person of large experience. He

quietly left the Commissioners to fight amongst themselves

about the discovery of the circle, and if they chose, even about

its quadrature. On his return, however, he reported that

from some very extensive calculations of his own he had

anticipated an elliptic cavity ; that he had directed the atten
tion of the Commissioners to the subject ; and that they had
succeeded in verifying his prediction. He also stated that
the same theory led him to the knowledge of the fact, that

in certain cases the ellipse might approach very nearly to a

circle, although it could never actually reach  whilst on
                                                it,
                                                                    a
the other hand       might become 60 flat as to approach
a
straight line --an approximation to which nobody ever sug
                 it
gested that the chairman himself could have attained. The

chairman then, with singular modesty, alluding in his report

to one of his colleagues possessing high rank, great influence

and very moderate knowledge of science, remarked that     it

was fortunate for him (the chairman) that that distinguished

member had been so fully occupied with much more valuable
THE COMMISSIONERS OUT-MAN03UVRED.  415

investigations, otherwise he would certainly have anticipated
the important discovery it had fallen to his own lot to make.

   In the meantime the Commissioners, who had each wished

to appropriate to himself the discovery of the circle, now

thought that this usurpation of it by their chairman was most

unjust towards the unpretending member who had really
made it. They therefore advised him to claim his own dis
covery, and promised to back him in asserting it.

   But their chairman really was a clever fellow* and deep
as Silurian rocks. Aware of the importance of the discovery
thus appropriated, he had already visited the modest Com
missioner --had overwhelmed him with compliments, and had
also prevailed upon that other influential Commissioner whom
he had so well buttered in his Report, to give him a small
piece of preferment, which had been accepted by his victim :
--thus putting a padlock upon his lips, which his brother
Commissioners were unable either to unlock or to pick.

   After the Report was presented, more speeches were made
--more medals given, but the plague continued, and their

universe was depopulated.

   A third Commission was afterwards sent, who reported that

they found at the spot previously reached, on either side,

two vast circles, the diameter of each of which was one

hundred times the height of an ordinary individual ; that the
material occupying space within the circle differed slightly

from that without it; and that it appeared as if a vast

cylinder of space had been pushed through without disturbing

the matter external to it. They also reported that the former

Commissioners had never approached the origin of the mis
chief, but had simply worked their way, at light angles, to a

   · A clever fellow may occasionally snatch our applause ; but a clever

 man can alone command our respect.
416 DISTURBED VISION.

line which might terminate in it at the distance of a thousand
miles, more or less, either on the right or on the left hand of
the point they had reached.

   At this moment a sound like the roll of distant thunder

recalled me to this lower world, and interrupted my interest
ing communion with the world of Spirits. That noise arose
from the chimes of the cathedral clock. Spending a few

Idays at Salisbury, had wandered into the cathedral, and

being much fatigued, had selected the luxurious pew of the
Dean as a place of temporary rest. Reposing on elastic
cushions, with my head resting on an eider-down pillow, the

Ivision have related had taken place.
  IOn removing the pillow observed a small piece of matter

beneath it. This, upon examination, turned out to be a mor
sel of decayed Gloucester cheese. The whole vision was now
very clearly explained. The verger had evidently retired to
the most commodious pew to eat his dinner, and had inad

Ivertently left the small bit of cheese upon the very spot had

selected for my temporary repose. It was clear that my

Spirit had been put, en rapport, with the soul of a mite, one
of the most cultivated of his race.

  If the reader will glance over the following brief explana

tion, he will be fully convinced that my solution of this vision
is the true one.

  Parallel Passages in the Creation of the Universe and in the
             Birth and Education of a Gloucester Cheese.

 References.

       a. Milk gushing into the milk-pail at the rate of twenty
                gushes per minute. Alternations of greater and

                 less heat.

       b. Rennet being thrown in, the mUk curdles.
        c. Curds compressed into cheese.
               EXPLANATION.                             417

References.                                             dairy

      d. Cheese turned over daily during 121 days.

          A few minutes' difference in the time of the

man's attendance to perform this operation made

the days slightly unequal.

e. Cheese lifted up and pitched into a cart.

/. Cheese jolted in cart during half a day on its way to

to be shipped at Gloucester.

g. Cheese pitched from cart into ship.

h. Ship sails with the cheese for Southampton.

t. The motion of the waves makes the mites sea-sick for

         three days. Multitudes die.

j. Cheese taken from ship and pitched into a cart ; as in

the period e.

k. Cheese conveyed in cart to cheesemonger at Salisbury

       --the mites dreadfully jolted.

I. Cheese pitched into cheesemonger's shop, as in e.

m. Long period of repose of the cheese on the cheese

        monger's shelf.

n. A cylindrical cavity made and piece taken out for a
       customer to taste. Portion of cylinder replaced.
       Air being let in, a part of the cheese becomes

rotten, in which large worms are produced, giving

rise to the story of the dragon.

   In order to discover the month in which the cheese was

Imade, remarked that, since it was turned over on its shelf

in the cheese-room exactly 121 times, it must have been
first placed there in some month which, together with the
three succeeding months, had a number of days exactly equal

to 121.

                                        2E
418 CALCULATION.

I then computed the following Table :--

Table of the number of Days contained in each four months,
   commencing on the first day of each month and ending on
   the last day of the fourth following month.

       1 January to 30 April         Number of Days.
                                             120

       1 February ,, 31 May              120
                                         122
       1 March      ,, 30 June

       1 April      ,, 31 July           122

       1 May        ,, 31 August         123

       1 June       ,, 30 September      122
       1 July       ,, 31 October        123

       1 August     ,, 30 November       122

       1 September ,, 31 December        122

       1 October ,, 31 January           123

       1 November ,, 28 February         120

       1 December ,, 31 March            121

Now, from the preceding Table it appears that there is

only one month in the year fulfilling this condition, namely,

the month of March. It follows, therefore, that the cheese

       I
                       I

                                                                                     :

                                                                    a

                                                                   of

                                                                                      is,
must have been made four months before, that                                               in the

month of December.

Shortly after this vision received visit from that great

geologist, the erudite Professor Ponderdunder,* a member of

all existing Academies, and Secretary of the most celebrated

How-and-wi Academy for the Reconstruction                                                Primeval

Time.  was anxious to have the opinion of this learned

person upon my recent experience but he was evidently
envious of my vision, which he treated disrespectfully. Pos-

   * Author of the celebrated Treatise " On the Entity of Space," the basis

of all sound metaphysical reasoning.
          THE LEARNED PONDERDUNDER.                                            419

Isessed of an intellect which was anything but precocious,

had with much labour at last made him apprehend the arith

Imetic by which had discovered the exact month of December
Iin the date of the great series of 121 cataclysms, and felt

much mortified that he did not appreciate my ingenuity.

All of a sudden he seemed intuitively to perceive the use

that might be made of this vision. He then asked me with
Igreat earnestness whether
                               had communicated this new

method of reasoning to any other person. On my answering

in the negative, he entreated me not to say a word a"bout it.
He was especially anxious that Gardner Wilkinson, Layard,

                               it

                                          by
                                               it,
and Rawlinson should not get hold of                lest they might

anticipate the discovery which would enable him to com

plete. He assured me that he could,  visiting Nineveh, and

taking the Pyramids and Jericho on his road, with the aid of

my formula, restore the true chronology from the creation.

Having given him this promise, he left me, and immediately

telegraphed to very influential friend, the Vice-President
a
                            a
who managed the How-and-wi Academy, suggesting that not

moment should be lost in authorizing him to set out on

this expedition, which although painfully laborious to himself

personally and not without peril, he was willing to undertake

for the glory of the Academy, and from the religious convic

tion that would enable him to refute the frightful heresyit
of Bishop Colenso. Within twenty-four hours the faithful

telegraph brought him back the order to start and the
credit necessary for his equipment. He soon completed the

latter, and was en route within the time have mentioned.

  It with deep regret have now to state, that just ten
I is                           I
                                            I

                                                                        2
                                                                        e
                                                                            2
days after the active Secretary had started on his pious mis
sion, discovered that my reasoning about the month of

December with all its consequences was completely vitiated
420 STARTS FOR JERICHO.

by not having taken into consideration the existence of leap

years, in which case the magic number 121 occurs in no less

than four cases ; so that nothing at all is decided by it.

  I can only add my hope that, if any of my readers should

become acquainted with the whereabouts of the learned

Ponderdunder, he would kindly communicate by electric

telegraph this painful intelligence to that energetic traveller.

  I have subsequently been informed that Professor Ponder-

dunder's honorarium is only £800 a-year, and the payment

of all travelling expenses. The former is doubled upon
Idangerous travel.
                    was told that he also enjoys a snug

sinecure of considerable value recently instituted in his own

country ; being at the head of the department for the pro
motion of " Small Science and Low Art." The family of the

Ponderdunders possess the peculiar gift of manipulating
learned bodies. The Flowery --Rhetorical, and the Zoo-Eth

nological Societies barely escaped perdition under their costly
Iautocracy.
             regret also to add, (but truth forbids me to

conceal the interesting fact) that Ponderdunder is not a

member of aU existing academies as his visiting card indi

cated.

On searching the list of the members of the Roman
IAcademy "Dei Lynxcii,"
                         find that he is not a Lynx.

This, the oldest of European academies, originally existed

in the time of Galileo. About a quarter of a century ago
1 had the honour of receiving its diploma.
                       CHAFfER XXXII.

                              VARIOUS REMINISCENCES.

             On Preventing! the Forgery of Bank-Notes.

In 1836 imitations of bank-notes were so easily made, and
the forgeries so pumerous, that the Directors of the Bank of
England resolved on appointing a small committee to

examine the subject, and advise them upon a remedy.

  IThe Governor of the Bank wrote to ask me whether

would consent to act upon that committee. Not being my

Iself a professional engineer, entertained some doubts whether

my presence would be agreeable to the profession. Having
consulted Sir Isambard Brunel and the late Mr. Bryan
Donkin, who had been also applied to, they both pressed me
to join them in the inquiry.

    We examined the existing means of preventing forgery,
which were certainly very defective. The system of the
Bank of Ireland which had recently been greatly improved,

Iwas then discussed. Not many months before, had carefully

examined the whole plan at Dublin. After a full deliberation

Ion the subject, drew up our Report, which unanimously

recommended its adoption. The identity of the steel plates
 from which the bank-notes were to be printed was secured
by Perkins's plan of multiplying the number of such plates by
impressing them all from one roll of hardened steel.

   This plan answered its purpose fully at that time. It has,
422 A QUIET EMEUTE IN PARIS.

Ihowever, been superseded within the last few years.  had,

through the kindness of the late Governor of the Bank of

England, an opportunity of examining their most recent

improvement. The discovery of the process of making fac

similes of a wood engraving, by means of the electro-chemical

deposit of copper, has now enabled the Bank to return to the

more rapid process of surface printing.

  It is probable, from the great progress of the mechanical

arts, that these periods for revising methods of preventing

forgery will occur at more frequent intervals.

  I derived great pleasure from being permitted, as an

amateur, to join in this interesting inquiry with my professional

Ifriends, whose knowledge and character highly valued.
  ISubsequently received the unexpected gratification of a

vote of thanks from the Governor and Company of the Bank
of England --an honour usually reserved for warriors and

statesmen.

                                      An Emeuie.

  IOn one of my visits to Paris had the pleasure of dining

at the Bank of France. During dinner, in the midst of an

interesting conversation, the Chairman received a note :

having glanced over it he put it down by his side on the table.

   On the occurrence of a pause in the conversation, thinking

Ithe note might possibly require an immediate reply, in

quired whether such was the case. " No," said my host, " it

is of no consequence. It is only an emeute;" which he

then informed me was occurring in a distant part of Paris.

                              Letters of Credit.
   Letters of credit are specially addressed to certain bankers
at various places with whom your own banker is in corre

spondence.
THE AUTHOE IN WANT OF CASH.                             423
                                                        .

It has on several occasions happened to me to want cash

either for myself or to accommodate some friend at places

I Iwhere my own letters were not addressed to any firm. At
Frankfort made a purchase of books.  had a certain

amount of the usual circular letters, but as these were payable
I Iin a great many cities, and as proposed visiting Egypt,
Idid not wish to part with them.
                                  therefore went to the

house of Rothschild, hoping to get an advance on my letter

Iof credit, although it was not addressed to that firm. But it

being Saturday, no business was done. therefore inquired for

another banker of reputation, and was directed to M. Koch.

  I accordingly called at his counting-house, stated my

reason for wanting the money, showed him my circular notes

and letters of credit, and asked whether, under these circum

stances, he would cash my check for twenty pounds. He

immediately remarked that he had frequently visited Eng

land, and that most probably we had several common friends,

as it soon appeared, for the first person he mentioned was

Professor Sedgwick.

M. Koch not only advanced me the money, but he was

so kind as to invite me to dinner on the following day, and to

give me a seat in his box at the opera on the first appearance

I Iof Madamoiselle Sontag on the Frankfort stage.       got
      remember at least three other occasions in which

money for some of my English friends at towns where my

letter of credit was not addressed to any banker. In those

Icases only asked them to take my cheque, send it to London,

I Iand when they had received the amount, to pay it over to me.
  also mentioned that was known to several persons resident

in Geneva and in Berlin where these occurrences happened.

In each case the banker immediately let me have the money

my friends wanted.
424 DIFFICULTY OF GETTING CASH,

IThe only instance in which was refused amused me very
I Imuch.
   spent a few weeks at Modena, where had pur

chased a microscope and several other philosophical instru

Iments. One morning went to the wealthy firm of Sangui-

netti, and mentioning my object to one of the partners, at the

same time showing him my letter of credit, asked under
               it

                   I
                          I

                                              it

                                                                          a
                                                                       if,
these circumstances, he would give me cash for draft of

twenty pounds on my banker in London. He replied very

courteously that was the rule of their house to give credit

only upon letters addressed to them by their own corre

spondent in London.  remarked that was quite necessary

in matters of business to adhere to fixed rules, and that when

made aware of their practice should be the last person to

ask them to deviate from it.

   Early the next morning a carriage drove up to the door of
my lodgings and an elderly gentleman was announced. This

was M. Sanguinetti, the senior partner of the firm. He told

me he came to apologize for the refusal of his junior partner

on the preceding day, and to offer to give me cash for my

cheque to whatever amount might require.
                           II

                                         a

                                       :I
                                            I

                                                              it
                                                               it
   replied that, a near relative of my own having formerly
I

         a

           it
been banker in London, was aware of the necessity of a

rigid observance of rules of business, and that his young

partner had not only done his duty, but, added, that he

had done in the most courteous manner. M. Sanguinetti

was so obliging and so pressing, that found difficult to

accept the advance of so small sum however, was all

arranged, and he left me.

I  then sent for my landlord and inquired whether he had

had any communication with M. Sanguinetti. He replied
that the old gentleman, the head of the firm, had called the
preceding evening, and asked him who was. " And what,"
                              I
HANDSOMELY REMOVED.  425

I Isaid to my landlord, " was your answer ?" --" told liim you
"Iwere a Milord Anglais," replied my host. -- am not a
IMilord Anglais," observed ; " but why did you tell him so?"

--" Because," said my landlord, " when the minister paid you

a visit, you sat down in his presence."
   The explanation of the affair was this. Soon after my

Iarrival at Modena, called on the Marquis Bangoni, a dis

tinguished mathematician, who had written a profound com

Iment on Laplace's ' Th&uie des Fonctions Generatrices.'

had not brought any letter of introduction, but had merely

sent up my card. The Marquis Rangoni received me very
cordially, and we were soon in deep discussion respecting
some of the most abstract questions of analysis. He returned
my visit on the following day, when he resumed the discussion,

I Iand showed him some papers connected with the subject.

was aware of the title of the Marquis Kangoni to respect, as
arising from his own profound acquaintance with analysis, but

I was now, for the first time, informed that he was a man of

great importance in the little Dukedom of Modena, for he
was the Prime Minister of the Grand Duke --in fact, the

Palmerston of Modena This at once explained the attention

I received from the wealthy banker.

                                          The Speaker.

    Ono Saturday morning an American gentleman who had
just arrived from Liverpool, where he had landed from the
United States on the previous day, called in Dorset Street.
Ho was very anxious to see the Difference Engine, and quite

Ifitted by his previous studies for understanding it well.

took him into the drawing-room in which the machine then
resided and gave him a short explanation of its structure.

IAs expected a large party of my friends in the evening,
426 A CONTRAST-- ENGLAND-- AMERICA.

Iamongst whom were a few men of science, asked him to

join the party.

   It so happened on that day that the Speaker had a small

dinner-party. The Silver Lady was accidentally mentioned,
and greatly excited the curiosity of the lady of the house.
As the whole of this small party, comprising three or four of
my most intimate friends, were coming to my house in the
evenirig, they proposed that the Speaker and his wife should
accompany them to my party, assuring them truly that 1
should be much gratified by the visit.

   The Silver Lady happened to be in brilliant attire, and
after mentioning the romance of my boyish passion, the
unexpected success of her acquisition, and the devoted

I Icultivation bestowed upon her education, proceeded to

set in action her fascinating and most graceful move

ments.

   A gay but by no means unintellectual crowd surrounded
the automaton. In the adjacent room the Difference Engine

stood nearly deserted: two foreigners alone worshipped at
that altar. One of them, but just landed from the United
States, was engaged in explaining to a learned professor from
Holland what he had himself in the morning gathered from

its constructor.

  ILeaning against the doorway, was myself contemplating

the strongly contrasted scene, pleased that my friends were
relaxing from their graver pursuits, and admiring the really
graceful movements produced by mechanism ; but still more
highly gratified at observing the deep and almost painful
attention of my Dutch guest, who was questioning his Ame

Irican instructor about the mechanical means had devised

for accomplishing some arithmetical object. The deep
thought with which this explanation was attended to, sud
           THE PHILOSOPHER AT A CONCERT.  427

denly flashed into intense delight when the simple means of
its accomplishment were made apparent.

   My acute and valued friend, the late Lord Langdale, who had
been observing the varying changes of my own countenance,
as it glanced from one room to the other, now asked me,
" What new mischief are you meditating ?"-- " Look," said I,
" in that further room -- England. Look again at this --

two Foreigners.

           Ancient Music.

Many years ago some friends of mine invited me to accom

pany them to the concert of ancient music, and join their

supper-party after it was over.

   My love of music is not great, but for the pleasure of the

Isociety accepted the invitation. On our meeting at the
Isupper-table, was overwhelmed with congratulations upon
Imy exquisite appreciation of the treat we had just had.

Iwas assured that though my expression of feeling was of the

quietest order, yet that was the earliest to approve all the

most beautiful passages.

  I accepted modestly my easily-won laurels, and perhaps my

taste for music might have survived in the memory of my

Ifriends, when my taste for mechanism had been forgotten.

will, however, confide to the public the secret of my success.

ISoon after had taken my seat at the concert, 1 perceived

Lady Essex at a short distance from me. Knowing well her

Iexquisitely sensitive taste, readily perceived by the expres

sion of her countenance, as well as by the slight and almost

involuntary movement of the hand, or even of a finger, those

passages which gave her most delight. These quiet indica

tions, unobserved by my friends, formed the electric wire
Iby which
           directed the expressions of my own counte
428 PHILOSOPHY OF INVENTION.

Inance and the very modest applause thought it prudent to

develop.

After receiving the congratulations of my friends upon
Imy great musical taste,
                          informed them how easily that

reputation had been acquired. Such are the feeble bases on

which many a publio character rests.

  IDuring my residence with my Oxford tutor, whiLst was
Iworking by myself on mathematics, occasionally arrived at

conclusions which appeared to me to be new, but which from

Itime to time afterwards found were already well known.
IAt first was much discouraged by these disappointments,

and drew from such occurrences the inference that it was

Ihopeless for me to attempt to invent anything new. After a

time saw the fallacy of my reasoning, and then inferred

Ithat when my knowledge became much more extended

might reasonably hope to make some small additions to my

favourite science.

This idea considerably influenced my course during my

residence at Cambridge by directing my reading to the

original papers of the great discoverers in mathematical
Iscience.
           then endeavoured to trace the course of their

minds in passing from the known to the unknown, and to

observe whether various artifices could not be connected

together by some general law. The writings of Euler were

eminently instructive for this purpose. At the period of my

Ileaving Cambridge began to see more distinctly the object

of my future pursuit.

  It appeared to me that the highest exercise of human

faculties consisted in the endeavour to discover those laws of

thought by which man passes from the known to that which
                EARLY ESSAYS.  429

was unknown. It might with propriety be called the phi

Ilosophy of invention. During the early part of my residence

in London, commenced several essays on Induction, Gene

ralization, Analogy, with various illustrations from different

I Isources. The philosophy of signs always occupied my atten

tion, and to whatever subject applied myself was ever on

the watch to perceive and record the links by which the new

was connected with the known.

  IMost of the early essays refer to were not sufficiently

Imatured for publication, and several have appeared without

any direct reference to the great object of my life. may,
however, point out one of my earlier papers in tho " Philo
sophical Transactions for 1817," which, whilst it made con

siderable additions to a new branch of science, is itself a

very striking instance of tho use of analogy for the purpose
Iof invention.  refer to tho " Essay on the Analogy between

the Calculus of Functions and other Branches of Analysis."
-- Phil. Trans. 1817.
             CHAPTER XXXIII.

   THK AUTHOR'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO HUMAN KNOWLEDGE.

   Scientific Societies -- Analytical Society -- Astronomical Society -- Grand
     Duke of Tuscany, Leopold II.-- Scientific Meeting at Florence -- Also at
      Berlin --At Edinburgh --At Cambridge--Origin of the Statistical Society
      --Statistical Congress at Brussels--Calculus of Functions-- Division of
      Labour --Verification part of Cost--Principles of Taxation --Extension to
      Elections --The two Pumps --Monopoly --Miracles.

   Of the part taken by the Author in the formation of various

             Scientific Societies.

   The origin of the Analytical Society has been already ex
   plained in the fourth chapter. In the year 1820 the Author

   of this volume, joining with several eminent men attached

   to astronomical pursuits, instituted the Royal Astronomical

   Society. At the present time only three of the original
   founders survive. The meetings, and still more the pub

   lications of that society, have contributed largely to extend

   the taste for astronomy.
   IIn 1827
             visited Italy, and during my residence at

   Florence had many opportunities of observing the strong

   feeling of the reigning Grand Duke Leopold II., not only for

   the fine arts, but for the progress of science, and for its appli

   cation to the advancement of the arts of life.

     IAfter a long tour in Italy, found myself in the following
   Iyear again in Florence, and again was received with a kind

   Iness and consideration which can never forget. . The Grand

^
THE GRAND DUKE OF TUSCANY.                              431

Duke was anxious to know my opinion respecting the state of

I Iscience in Italy. At one of the many interviews with which
   was honoured, he asked me whether could point out any

way in which he could assist its progress.

   The question was unexpected ; but it immediately recalled

Ito me a recent circumstance, which then mentioned, namely,
Ithat in three of the great cities of Italy had been consulted

confidentially by three distinguished men of science upon the

same subject, on which each was separately engaged without

being aware of the fact that the other two were employed on

Ithe same inquiry. The result, remarked, would probably be

that Italy would thus make one step in science, and that the

discovery might probably be accompanied by painful discus

sions respecting priority ; whilst with better means of inter

communication amongst its men of science Italy might have

made three steps in advance. The idea of a periodical meet

ing of men engaged in scientific pursuits naturally arose out

of these remarks. At parting, the Grand Duke requested me
Ito draw up a minute of the conversation.
                                           therefore drew
Iup a note on the subject, in which shadowed out an annual

meeting of learned men in the various cities of Italy.

On finally taking leave, previous to my visit to Germany,

the Grand Duke assured me that he had read the minute of

our conversation with much attention, that he saw the evils

pointed out, and agreed with me as to the remedy. He then
observed that "the time for such a meeting had not yet
arrived ; but," added the Grand Duke, " when it does arrive,

you may depend upon me."

Eleven years after, in ] 839, 1 was honoured by an invitation

from the Grand Duke of Tuscany to meet the men of science
of Italy, then about to assemble at Florence. In this com
munication it was observed, that " the time had now arrived."
432 BRITISH ASSOCIATION : ITS ORIGIN.

  IIn the autumn of 1828 reached Berlin, and unexpectedly

found, from M. Humboldt, that in the course of a few weeks

the philosophers of Germany were to hold a meeting in that

capital.

  I then learnt for the first time that, some years before,

Dr. Oken had proposed and organized an annual congress of
German naturalists, meeting in each succeeding year in some

Igreat town.
       remained to witness the enlarged meeting at Berlin,
which was very successful, and wrote an account of it to
Sir D. Brewster, who published the description of it in " The

IEdinburgh Journal of Science."* This was, believe, the first

communication to the English public of the existence of the

German Society.

   A few years after, Sir David Brewster, Sir John Robison,

Secretary of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and the Rev.
William Vernon Harcourt, undertook the foundation of a

similar periodical and itinerant society in our own country.

   It appeared to me that the original organization of the
British Association, as developed at York and at Oxford, was
defective, --that its basis was not sufficiently extended. In

fact, that other sciences besides the physical were wanting for
the harmony and success of the whole. There was no section
to interest the landed proprietors or those members of their
families who sat in either house of parliament. Nor was
there much to attract the manufacturer or the retail dealer.

A purely accidental circumstance enabled me to remedy one

of these defects.!

    * Vol. x., p. 225. 1829.

   It afterwards succeeded in getting the British Association to adopt the

 plan of having an exhibition of specimens of the various manufactures and
 commercial products of the districts it successively visited. This com
 menced at Newcastle in 1838, and was carried to a much greater extent in
THE STATISTICAL SOCIETY : ITS ORIGIN.   433

   At the Third Meeting of the British Association at Cam

Ibridge in 1833, happened, one afternoon, to call on my old

and valued friend the Rev. Richard Jones, Professor of Political

Economy at Haileybury, who was then residing in apartments

at Trinity College. He informed me that he had just had

a long conversation with our mutual friend M. Quetelet, who

had been sent officially by the Belgian Government to attend

the meeting of the British Association. That M. Quetelet

had brought with him a budget of statistical facts, and that

as there was no place for it in any section, he (Professor

Jones) had asked M. Quetelet to come to him that even
ing, and had invited Sir Charles Lemon, Professor Malthus,

Mr. Drinkwater (afterwards Mr. Bethune),* and one or two

others interested in the subject, to meet him, at the same
Itime requesting me to join the party.
Ithis invitation and departed.          gladly accepted

                                had not, however, reached the

gate of Trinity College before it occurred to me that there

was now an opportunity of doing good service to the British
              I returned to the apartments of my friend,
Association.

explained to him my views, in which he fully coincided, and

I suggested the formation of a Statistical Section. We both

agreed that unless some unusual course were taken, it would be

impossible to get such a Section organized until the meeting
Iin the following year.
                         therefore proposed that when we

met in the evening we should consider the question of consti

tuting ourselves provisionally a Statistical Section, and after

Iwards, at the general meeting in the Senate House, that

should explain the circumstance which had arisen, and the

the following year at Birmingham. I am not aware that this fact » as ever

referred to hy those who got up the Exhibition of 1851.

  I* have reason to believe, from the Note Book of Mr. Drinkwater (Be

thune), that this meeting was held on Wednesday, 26th June, 1833.

                                                                                 2F
434 THE STATISTICAL SOCIETY : ITS ORIGIN.

great advantage to the British Association of rendering such a
Section a permanent hranch of its institution. After further
explanations its utility was fully admitted ; certain rather

stringent rules were laid down in order to confine its inquiries

to collections of facts. The sanction of the General Sleeting

was then given to the establishment of the Statistical Section,

and before the termination of the Congress, a larger audience

was collected in its meeting-room than in those of any of its

sister sciences.

The interest of our discussions, and the mass of materials

which now began to open upon our view, naturally indicated

the necessity of forming a more permanent society for their

collection. The British Association approved of the appoint
Iment of a permanent committee of this section.
                                                                              was re

quested to act as chairman, and Mr. Drinkwater as secretary.
On the 15th March, 1834, at a public meeting held in London,
the Marquis of Lansdowne in the Chair, it was resolved to

establish the Statistical Society of London.

   The Committee of the British Association, in reporting this

fact to the Council, observe that " though the want of such a
" society has been long felt and acknowledged, the successful
" establishment of after every previous attempt had failed,
                  a it,
                                                      it ;
                                                                    is
                                                                        a by
" has been due altogether to the impulse given                                the last
" meeting of the Association. The distinguished foreigner
" (M. Quetelet) who contributed so materially to the formation
" of the Statistical Section, was attracted to England princi-
" pally with a view of attending that meeting and the Com-
" mittee hail this as signal instance of the beneficial results

" to be expected from that personal intercourse among the
" enlightened men of all countries, which
                                                                            principal
" object of the British Association to encourage and facilitate."

M. Quetelet, on his return to his own country, continued to
CALCULUS OF FUNCTIONS.  435

direct by his counsel, and to advance, by his own indefatigable
industry, those statistical inquiries of which the Belgian
Government so well appreciated the advantage.

   At length the conviction of the importance of the value of
Statistical Science becoming widely extended in other coun
tries, M. Quetelet saw that a fit time had arrived for summon
ing a European Congress. The results of such meetings are
invaluable to all sciences, but more peculiarly to statistics, in
which names have to be defined, signs to be invented, methods
of observation to be compared and rendered uniform ; thus
enhancing the value of all future obvervations by making them
more comparable as well as more expeditiously collected.

    The proposal was adopted by the Belgian Government, and
the first International Statistical Congress was held at Brussels
in September, 1853.

    The result was most successful ; all the cultivators of Sta

tistical Science are deeply indebted to M. Qu6telet for the
unwearied pains he took to insure its success. He was assisted
in this arduous task by the ministers of the crown, and sup
ported by the high approbation of an enlightened sovereign.

                            Calculus of Functions.

  IThis was my earliest step, and is still one to which would

willingly recur if other demands on my time permitted.

IMany years ago recorded, in a small MS. volume, the facts,

and also extracts of letters from Herschel, Bromhead, and

I IMaule, in which believe have done justice to my friends

if not to myself. It is very remarkable that the Analytical

Engine adapts itself with singular facility to the development

and numerical working out of this vast department of analysis.

   In the list of my printed papers, at the end of this volume,

will be found my various contributions to that subject.

                                                                               2 F2
436 THE DIVISION OF LABOUR.

                  Political Economy.

   My contributions to Political Economy are chiefly to be
found in " The Economy of Machinery and 3Ianufactures,"
which consists of illustrations and developments of the
principles regulating a very large section of that important

subject.

                  Division of Labour.

   It is singular that in the analysis of the division of labour,

given by Adam Smith in " The Wealth of Nations," the most

efficient cause of its advantage is entirely omitted.  The three

causes assigned in that work are --

1st. The increase of dexterity in every particular workman.

2nd. The saving of time lost in passing from one species of

work to another.

3rd. The invention of a great number of machines which

facilitate and abridge labour, and enable one man to do the

work of many.

These are undoubtedly true causes, but the most important

cause is entirely omitted.

   The most effective cause of the cheapness produced by the
division of labour is this--

   By dividing the work to be executed into different pro
cesses, each requiring different degrees of skill, or of force,

the master manufacturer can purchase exactly that precise
quantity of both which is necessary for each process. Whereas

if the whole work were executed by one workman, that person

must possess sufficient skill to perform the most difficult, and

sufficient strength to execute the most laborious, of those
operations into which the art is divided.

   Needle-making is perhaps the best illustration of the over
powering effect of this cause. The operatives in this manu
THE PRINCIPLE OF TAXATION.  437

facture consist of children, women, and men, earning wages

varying from three or four shillings up to five pounds per

week. Those who point the needles gain about two pounds.
The man who hardens and tempers the needles earns from

five to six pounds per week. It ought also to be observed

that one man is sufficient to temper the needles for a large

factory ; consequently the time spent on each needle by the
most expensive operative is excessively small.

   But if a manufacturer insist on employing one man to

make the whole needle, he must pay at the rate of five pounds
a week for every portion of the labour bestowed upon it.*

                              Cost of any Article.

   Besides the usual elements which contribute to constitute the
price of any thing, there exists another which varies greatly

in different articles. It is this --

   The cost and difficulty of verifying the fact that the article is
exactly what it professes to he.

   This is in some cases very small ; but in many instances it
is scarcely possible for the purchaser to verify the genuineness
of certain articles. In these cases the public pay a larger
price than they otherwise would do to those tradesmen whose
character and integrity are well established.

                           Principles of Taxation.

  IIn a pamphlet printed in 1848, published my views of

taxation, especially with reference to an Income Tax.

   The principle there supported was entertained and
examined by the French Minister of Finance, M. Passy.
The pamphlet itself was subsequently translated into Italian
and published at Turin, under the auspices of the Sardinian

Finance Minister.
                         * See " Economy of Manufactures."
438 THE PRINCIPLE OF REPRESENTATION.

IThe principle there maintained admits, think, of an

extension to the election of representatives.

   In that case, each person would have one vote on the

ground of his personality, and other votes in proportion to

his income. Whenever any further extension of our repre

sentative system becomes necessary, the dangers arising from

the extension of the personal suffrage may fairly be

counterbalanced by giving a plurality of votes to property.

Such a course would have a powerful tendency to good, by

supporting the national credit and by preventing the
destructive waste of capital by war, and it might even make

us a highly conservative people.

As the subject of political economy will be considered
Irather dry by most readers,
                                  will endeavour to enliven

it by an extract from that pamphlet, which singularly

illustrates the question   of direct  and indirect taxation.
                          productive  pump of my Italian
I had mentioned the       Lansdowne,  who supplied me with

friend to the late Lord

the counterpart in the unproductive pump erected by the

late William Edgewortb, at Edgeworth Town, in Ireland.

That proprietor, whose country residence was much fre

quented by beggars, resolved to establish a test for dis

criminating between the idle and the industrious, and also to
obtain some small return for the alms he was in the habit of

bestowing. He accordingly added to the pump by which the
upper part of his house was supplied with water, a piece of
mechanism so contrived that, at the end of a certain number of

strokes of the pump-handle, a penny fell out from an aperture

to repay the labourer for his work. This was so arranged,

that labourers who continued at the work, obtained very

nearly the usual daily wages of labour in that part of the

country. The idlest of the vagabonds of course refused this
new labour test : but the greater part of the beggars, whose
STORY OF THE TWO PUMPS.  439

constant tale was that ' they could not earn a fair day's wages
for a fair day's work,' after earning a few pence, usually went

away cursing the hardness of their taskmaster.
   An Italian gentleman, with greater sagacity, devised a more

productive pump, and kept it in action at far less expense.
The garden wall of his villa adjoined the great high road lead
ing from one of the capitals of northern Italy*, from which it

 was distant but a few miles. Possessing within his garden a
fine spring of water, he erected on the outside of the wall a
pump for public use, and chaining to it a small iron ladle, he
placed near it some rude seats for the weary traveller, and by
a slight roof of climbing plants protected the whole from the

mid-day sun. In this delightful shade the tired and thirsty

 travellers on that well-beaten road ever and anon reposed and
 refreshed themselves, and did not fail to put in requisition

 the service of the pump so opportunely presented to them.
 From morning till night many a dusty and wayworn pilgrim
 plied the handle, and went on his way, blessing the liberal
 proprietor for his kind consideration of the passing stranger.

    But the owner of the villa was deeply acquainted with
 human nature. He knew in that sultry climate that the

 liquid would be more valued from its scarcity, and from the
 difficulty of acquiring it. He therefore, to enhance the value

 of the gift, wisely arranged the pump, so that its spout was of

 rather contracted dimensions, and the handle required a
 moderate application of force to work it. Under these

 circumstances the pump raised far more water than could

 pass through its spout ; and, to prevent its being wasted, the
 suqilus was conveyed by an invisible channel to a large

 reservoir judiciously placed for watering the proprietor's own
 house, stables, and garden, -- into which about five pints were
 poured for every spoonful passing out of the spout for the

                                               * Turin.
   440 MONOPOLY.

   benefit of the weary traveller. Even this latter portion was
   not entirely neglected, for the waste-pipe conveyed the part
   which ran over from the ladle to some delicious strawberry
   beds at a lower level. Perhaps, by a small addition to this

   ingenious arrangement, some kind-hearted travellers might
   be enabled to indulge their mules and asses with a taste of
   the same cool and refreshing fluid ; thus paying an additional
   tribute to the skill and sagacity of the benevolent proprietor.
   My accomplished friend would doubtless make a most popular
   Chancellor of the Exchequer, should his Sardinian Majesty
   require his services in that department of administration.

                                                 Monopoly.I it,

     IIn the course of my examination of this question arrived
   Iat what conceive to be a demonstration of the following

   principle :--
       That even under circumstances of the most absolute monopoly,

   ifthe monopolist will, he KNOWS his own interest and pursues

        sell the article he produces at exactly the same price as tlw

   freest competition would produce.
          devoted chapter to this subject in an edition which

   prepared several years ago for new Italian translation of the
   " Economy of Manufactures but am not aware whether

   has yet been published.
          a

                                 ;"
                                       a

                             I
                                                      it I

                    Miracles.

      The explanation which gave of the nature of miracles in
   " The Ninth Bridgewater Treatise," published in May, 1837,
          it

                   it I
                                               by a
                                                                 by
                                                                                   a
   has now stood the test of more than quarter of century,

   during which has been examined  some of the deepest

   thinkers in many countries. Its adoption  those writers

   who have referred to has, as far as my information goes,

   been unanimous.

^
                                    i

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

       THE AUTHOR'S FURTHER CONTRIBUTIONS TO HUMAN
                                         KNOWLEDGE.

Glaciers -- Uniform Postage --Weight of the Bristol Bags --Parcel Post--Plan
   for transmitting Letters along Aerial Wires --Cost of Verification is part
   of Price--Sir Rowland Hill --Submarine Navigation -- Difference Engine
  --Analytical Engine--Cause of Magnetic and Electric Rotations --Mecha
   nical Notation -- Occulting Lights --Semi-occultation may determine Dis
  tances -- Distinction of Lighthouses numerically --Application from the
   United States --Proposed Voyage -- Loss of the Ship and Mr. Reid-- Con
   gress of Naval Officers at Brussels in 1853 --My Portable Occulting Light
   exhibited --Night Signals -- Sun Signals--Solar Occulting Lights -- After
   wards used at Sebastopol --Numerical Signals applicable to all Dic
   tionaries -- Zenith Light Signals -- Telegraph for Ships on Shore --
   Greenwich Time Signals--Theory of Isothermal Surfaces to account for

    the Geological Facts of the successive Uprising and Depression of various

   parts of the Earth's Surface --Games of Skill--Tit-tat-to -- Exhibitions --

    Problem of the Three Magnetic Bodies.

                      Of Glaciers.

Much has been written upon the subject of glaciers. The

Iview which took of the question on my first acquaintance

with them still seems to me to afford a sufficient explanation

Iof the phenomena. It is probable that may have been

anticipated in it by Saussure and others ; but, having no time
Ito inquire into its history,
                               shall give a very brief state

ment of those views.

The greater part of the material which ultimately consti

tutes a glacier arises from the rain falling and the snow

deposited in the higher portions of mountain ranges, which
442 GLACIERS.

naturally first fill up the ravines and valleys, and rests on

the tops of the mountains, covering thetn to various depths.

   The chief facte to be explained are--first, the causes of

the descent of these glaciers into the plains; second, the

causes of the transformation of the opaque consolidated snow

at the sources of the glacier into pure transparent ice at its

termination.

The glaciers usually lying in valleys having a steep descent,

gravity must obviously have a powerful influence ; but its

action is considerably increased by another cause.

The heat of the earth and that derived from the friction

of the glacier and its broken fragments against the rock on

which it rests, as well as from the friction of its own frag

ments, slowly melts the ice, and thus diminishing the amount

of its support, the ice above cracks and falls down upon the

earth, again to be melted and again to be broken.

But as the ice is upon an inclined plane, the pressure from

above, on the upper side of the fragment, will be greater than

that on the lower ; consequently, at every fall the fallen mass

will descend by a very small quantity further into the valley.
Another consequence of the melting of the lower part of the

centre of the glacier will be that the centre will advance

faster than the sides, and its termination will form a curve

convex towards the valley.

  IThe above was, believe, the common explanation of the

formation of glaciers.  The following part explains my own
views :--

Of the Causes of the Transformation of Condensed Snow

                                  into Transparent Ice.

  It is a well-known fact that water rapidly frozen retains all

the air it held in solution, and is opaque.
OF TRANSPARENT AND OPAQUE ICE.  443

  It is also known that water freezing very slowly is trans

parent.
   Whenever, by the melting of the lower portion of any part

of a glacier, a piece of it cracks and falls to a lower level, the
friction of the broken sides will produce heat, and melt a

small portion of water. This water, trickling down very

slowly, will form a thin layer on the broken surface, and a
portion will be retained in the narrowest part of the crack.
But, since the temperature of a glacier is very near the freezing

point, that water will freeze very slowly. It will, therefore,

become transparent ice, and will, as it were, solder together
the two adjacent surfaces by a thin layer of transparent ice.

   But the transparent ice is much stronger and more difficult
to break than opaque ice ; consequently, the next time the
soldered fragments are again broken, they will not break in
the strongest part, which is the transparent ice : but the next
fracture will occur in the opaque ice, as it was at first.

    Thus, by the continued breaking and falling downward of
the fragments of the glacier, as it proceeds down the valley,
a series of vertical, rudely-parallel veins of transparent ice
will be formed. As these masses descend the valley, fresh
vertical layers of transparent ice will be interposed between
those already existing until the whole takes that beautiful

transparent cerulean tint which we so frequently see at the
 lower termination of a glacier. Another effect of this vertical
fracture at the surfaces of least resistance will be alternate

 vertical layers of opaque and transparent ice shading into each
other. This would, in some of its stages, give a kind of rib
 boned appearance to the ice. Probably traces of it would
 still be exhibited even in the most transparent ice. Speaking

 roughly, this ribboned structure ought to be closer together

the nearer the piece examined is to the end of the glacier. It
444 CRACKS IN GLACIERS PERPENDICULAR.

ought also to be more apparent towards the centre of the gla
cier than towards the sides. The effect of this progress down

ward is to produce a very powerful friction between the masses
of ice and the earth over which they are pushed, and, conse
quently, a continual accession to that stream of water which
is found issuing from all glaciers.

   The result of this continual breaking up is to cause all the
water melted by the friction of the blocks of ice which is not
retained in the interstices to fall towards the lowest part of the

descending valley, and thus increase the stream, and so take
away more and more of the support of the central part of the
glacier. Hence the advance of the surface of the glacier

will be much quicker towards its middle than near the

sides.

The consequence of these actions that cracks in the ice
        is
will occur generally in planes perpendicular to its surface.
                                  it
The rain which falls upon the glacier, the water produced
                                                         is,
                                                              by
                                                                             by

                                                               if by

                                                                                        by a
from its surface by the sun's rays and by the effect of the

temperature of the atmosphere, as well as the water produced

by the friction of its descending fragments, will penetrate

through these cracks, and be retained  capillary action on

the surfaces, and still more where the distance of the adjacent

surfaces very small. The rest of this unfrozen water will

reach the rocky bottom of the glacier, and give up some of its

heat to the bed over which passes, to be again employed in

melting away the lowest support of the glacier ice. Although

the temperature of the glacier should differ but                                              very

small quantity from that of the freezing point of water, yet

these films will only freeze the more slowly, and therefore be

come more solid and transparent ice. Their very thinness will

enable all the air to be more readily extricated  freezing.

The question of the regelation of pounded ice,                                                that
BURNING TOGETHER BRONZE.                        445

term is meant anything more than welding ice by heat, or of

joining its parts by a process analogous to that which is called

burning together two separate portions of a bronze statue, has

always appeared to me unsatisfactory.

   The process of " burning together " is as follows :-- Two

portions of a large statue, w'aich have been cast separately,

are placed in a trough of sand, with their corresponding ends
near to each other. A channel is made in the sand, leading

through the junction of the parts to be united.

   A stream of melted bronze is now allowed to run out from

the furnace through the channel between the contiguous ends
which it is proposed to unite. The first effect of this is to
heat the ends of the two fragments. After the stream of

melted metal has continued some time, the ends of those frag
ments themselves begin to melt. When a small quantity of

each end is completely melted, the further flow of the melted

metal is stopped, and as soon as the pool of melted metal

connects, the two ends of the pieces to be united begins to

consolidate : the whole is covered up with sand and allowed

to cool gradually. When cold, the unnecessary metal is cut

away, and the fragments are as perfectly united as if they

had been originally cast in one piece.

The sudden consolidation, by physical force, of pounded ice

or snow appears to me to arise from the first effect of the

pressure producing heat, which melts a small portion into
water, and brings the particles of ice or snow nearer to each

other. The portion of water thus produced then, having its

heat abstracted by the ice, connects the particles of the latter

more firmly together by freezing.

  If two flat surfaces of clear ice had a heated plate of metal

put between them, two very thin layers of water would be

Ifformed between the ice and the heated plate.  the hot
41G ICE FROZEN IN THE EXHIBITION, 1862.

plate were suddenly withdrawn, and the two plates of ice
pressed together, they would then be frozen together. This

would be equivalent to welding. In all these cases the tem
perature of the ice must be a very little lower than the freez
ing-point. The more nearly it approached that point the

slower the process of freezing would be, and therefore the

more transparent the ice thus formed.

   In the Exhibition of 1862 there were two different pro

cesses by which ice was produced in abundance, even in the
heat of the Machinery Annex, in which they were placed.

   In both the water was quickly converted into ice, and in

both cases the ice was opaque.

   In one of them the ice was produced in the shape of long

hollow cylinders. These were quite opaque, and were piled
up in stacks. The temperature of the place caused the ice to
melt slowly ; consequently, the interstices where the cylin
ders rested upon each other, received and retained a small
portion of the water, which, trickling down, was detained by
capillary attraction. Here it was very slowly frozen, and
formed at the junction of the cylinders a thin film of trans
parent ice. This gradually increased as the upper cylinders

Iof the ice melted away, and, after several hours' exposure,

have seen clear transparent ice a quarter of an inch thick,
where, at the commencement, there had not been even a

trace of translucency.
    On inquiring of the operator why the original cylinders

were opaque, he told me, because they were frozen quickly.

I then pointed out to him the small portions of transparent
Iice, which have described, and asked him the cause. He

immediately said, because they had been frozen slowly.

   It appeared to be an axiom, derived from his own experi

ence, that water quickly frozen is always opaque, and water
BOOK AND PARCEL POST.                               447

Islowly frozen always transparent.  pointed out this practi
Ical illustration to many of the friends accompanied in their

examination of the machinery of the Annex.

It would follow from this explanation, that glaciers on

lofty mountains and in high latitudes may, by their own

action, keep the surface of the earth on which they rest at a

higher temperature than it would otherwise attain.

                 Book and Parcel Post.

When my friend, the late General Colby, was preparing the

materials and instruments for the intended Irish survey, he

generally visited me about once a week to discuss and talk

over with me his various plans. We had both of us turned

our attention to the Post-office, and had both considered aud

advocated the question of a uniform rate of postage. The

ground of that opinion was, that the actual transport of a
letter formed but a small item in the expense of transmitting

it to its destination ; whilst the heaviest part of the cost arose

from the collection and distribution, and was, therefore, almost
Iindependent of the length of its journey.
                                            got some returns

of the weight of the Bristol mail-bag for each night during

one week, with a view to ascertain the possibility of a more

rapid transmission. General Colby arrived at the conclusion

that, supposing every letter paid sixpence, and that the same

number of letters were posted, then the revenue would re
Imain the same.
                 believe, when an official comparison was

subsequently made, it was found that the equivalent sum
                          I then devised means for trans
was fivepence halfpenny.

mitting letters enclosed in small cylinders, along wires sus

pended from posts, and from towers, or from church steeples.

I made a little model of such an apparatus, and thus trans

mitted notes from my front drawing-room, through the house,
448 COST OF VERIFICATION.

Iinto ray workshop, which was in a room above my stables.
The date of these experiments  do not exactly recollect,

but it was certainly earlier than 1827.

  I had also, at a still earlier period, arrived at the remark

able economical principle, that one element in the price of

Ievery article is the cost of its verification. It arose thus :--

   In 1815 became possessed of a house in London, and com

menced my residence in Devonshire Street, Portland Place,

Iin which resided until 1827. A kind relative of mine sent

up a constant supply of game. But although the game cost

nothing, the expense charged for its carriage was so great

Ithat it really was more expensive than butchers' meat.

endeavoured to get redress for the constant overcharges, but

as the game was transferred from one coach to another I

found it practically impossible to discover where the over

charge arose, and thus to remedy the evil. These efforts,

however, led me to the fact that verification, which in this

instance constituted a considerable part of the price of the
article, must form a portion of its price in every case.

  IActing upon this, suggested that if the Government were

to become, through the means of the Post-office, parcel car

riers, they would derive a greater profit from it than any private

trader, because the whole price of verification would be saved
Iby the public.
                 therefore recommended the enlargement of

the duties of the Post-office by employing it for the convey

ance of books and parcels.

  I mention these facts with no wish to disparage the subse

quent exertions of Sir Rowland Hill. His devotion to the

subject, his unwearied industry, and his long and at last suc

cessful efforts to overcome the notorious official friction of

that department, required all the enduring energy he so

constantly bestowed upon the subject. The benefit con
               DIFFERENCE ENGINE.              449

ferred upou the country by the improvements he introduced

is as yet scarcely sufficiently estimated.

   These principles were published afterwards in the
" Economy of Manufactures." -- See First Edition, 8th June,

1832 ; Second Edition, 22nd November, 1832. See chap,
on the "Influence of Verification on Price," p. 134, and
" Conveyance of Letters," p. 273.

                             Submarine Navigation.

   Of this it is not necessary to do more than mention the
title and refer for the detail to the chapter on Experience by
Water : and also to the article Diving Bell in the " Ency
clopaedia Metropolitana."

  I have only to add my opinion that in open inverted ves

sels it may probably be found, under certain circumstances,
of important use.

               Difference Engine.

Enough has already been said about that unfortunate

discovery in the previous part of this volume. The first

and great cause of its discontinuance was the inordinately

Iextravagant demands of the person whom had employed to

construct it for the Government. Even this might, perhaps,

by great exertions and sacrifices, have been surmounted.

       however, limit beyond which human endurance
There  is,     a

            I      I
Ifcannot go.   survive some few years longer, the Analy

tical Engine will exist, and its works will afterwards be
Ifspread over the world.
                          it       the will of that Being,

                               is

who gave me the endowments which led to that disco

very, that should not survive to complete my work, bow
       I                                   :I

to that decision with intense gratitude for those gifts con

scious that through life have never hesitated to make the

                                   2
                                        G
450 ON MAGNETIC ROTATIONS.

severest sacrifices of fortune, and even of feelings, in order to

accomplish my imagined mission.
   The great principles on which the Analytical Engine

rests have been examined, admitted, recorded, and demon

strated. The mechanism itself has now been reduced to

Iunexpected simplicity. Half a century may probably elapse

before any one without those aids which leave behind me,

will attempt so unpromising a task. If, unwarned by my

example, any man shall undertake and shall succeed in really

constructing an engine embodying in itself the whole of the

executive department      of mathematical  analysis upon
Idifferent principles or by simpler mechanical means, have

no fear of leaving my reputation in his charge, for he

alone will be fully able to appreciate the nature of my

efforts and the value of their results.

Explanation of the Cause of Magnetic and Electric Rotations.

  IIn 1824 Arago published his experiments on the mag

netism manifested by various substances during rotation.

was much struck with the announcement, and immediately

set up some apparatus in my own workshop in order to witness

the facts thus announced

My friend Herschel, who assisted at some of the earliest

experiments, joined with me in repeating and varying those of
Arago. The results were given in a joint paper on that
subject, published in the " Transactions of the Royal Society "

in 1825.

  I had previously made some magnetic experiments on a

large magnet which would, under peculiar management,
Itsustain about 32£ lbs.
                          was necessary to commence with a

weight of about 28 lbs., and then to add at successive intervals

additional weights, but each less and less than the former.
            ON ELECTKIC ROTATIONS.                         451

This led me to an explanation of the cause of those rotations,

Iwhich still venture to think is the true cause, although it is

not so recognized by English philosophers.

  IThe history is a curious one, and whether the cause which
Iassigned is right or wrong, the train of thought by which was

led to it is valuable as an illustration of the mode in which the

human mind works in its progress towards new discoveries.

The first experiment, showing that the weight suspended

might be increased at successive intervals of time, was stated

in most treatises on magnetism.  But the visible fact im

pressed strongly on my mind the conclusion that the pro

duction and discharge of magnetism is not instantaneous,

but requires time for its complete action. It appeared*

therefore, to me that this principle was sufficient for the

explanation of the rotations observed by Arago.

   In the following year it occurred to me that electricity

Ipossessed the same property, namely, that of requiring time
for its communication.  then instituted a new series of
Iexperiments, and succeeded, as had anticipated, in produc

ing electric rotations. But a new fact now presented itself:

in certain cases the electric needle moved back in the con

trary direction to that indicated by the influences to which it

was subjected. Whenever this occurred the retrograde

Imotion was always very slow. After eliminating successively

by experiment every cause which could imagine, the fact

which remained was, that in certain cases there occurred a

motion in the direction opposite to that which was expected.

IBut whenever such a motion occurred it was always very

slow. Upon further reflection, conjectured that it might

arise from the screen, interposed between the electric and

the needle itself, becoming electrified possibly in the opposite

direction.  New experiments confirmed this view and proved
                                                                2g2
452 THE MECHANICAL NOTATION.

that the original cause was sufficient for the production of all

the observed effects.

   These experiments and their explanation were printed in
the " Phil. Trans." 1826. But they met with so little ac

Iceptance in England that had ceased to contend for them

against more popular doctrines, and was too deeply occupied

with other inquiries to enter on their defence. Several

years after, during a visit to Berlin, taking a morning walk
Iwith Mitscherlich,
                       asked what explanation he adopted

of the magnetic rotations of Arago. He instantly replied,
" There can be no doubt that yours is the true one."

   It will be a curious circumstance in the history of science,

if an erroneous explanation of new and singular experiments

in one department should have led to the prevision of another

similar set of facts in a different department, and even to

the explanation of new facts at first apparently contradict

ing it.

                       Mechanical Notation.

IThis also has been described in a former chapter.  look
Iupon it as one of the most important additions have made

to human knowledge.    It has placed the construction of

machinery in the rank of a demonstrative science. The day

will arrive when no school of mechanical drawing will be

thought complete without teaching it.

                                   Occulting Lights.

   The great object of all my inquiries has ever been to
endeavour to ascertain those laws of thought by which man

makes discoveries. It was by following out one of the prin

I Iciples which had arrived at that was led to the system of

occulting numerical lights for distinguishing lighthouses
PRINCIPLE OF INVENTION.  453

Iand for night signals at sea, which published about twelve
Iyears ago. The principle allude to is this :--

   Whenever we meet with any defect in the means we are

contriving for the accomplishing a given object, that defect

should be noted and reserved for future consideration, and

inquiry should be made --
   Whether thai which is a defect as regards the object in view

may not become a source of advantage in some totally different

subject.

  I had for a long series of years been watching the progress

of electric, magnetic, and other lights of that order, with the
view of using them for domestic purposes ; but their want of

uniformity seemed to render them hopeless for that object.

IReturning from a brilliant exhibition of voltaic light,

thought of applying the above rule. The accidental inter
ruptions might, by breaking the circuit, be made to recur at
any required intervals. This remark suggested their adapta
tion to a system of signals. But it was immediately followed

by another, namely: that the interruptions were equally
applicable to all lights, and might be effected by simple me

chanism.

  I then, by means of a small piece of clock-work and an

argand lamp, made a numerical system of occultation, by
which any number might be transmitted to all those within

Isight of the source of light. Having placed this in a window

of my house, walked down the street to the distance of

Iabout 250 yards. On turning round perceived the number

32 clearly indicated by its occultations. There was, however,
a small defect in the apparatus. After each occultation there
was a kind of semi-occultation. This arose from the arm
which carried the shade rebounding from the stop on which

Iit fell. Aware that this defect could be easily remedied,
454 UNEXPECTED DIFFICULTY.

Icontinued my onward course for about 250 yards more, with

my back towards the light. On turning round was much

surprised to observe that the signal 32 was repeated dis

tinctly without the slightest trace of any semi-occultation or

blink.

  I was very much astonished at this change ; and on return
I Iing towards my house had the light constantly in view. After

advancing a short distance thought perceived a very faint

trace of the blink. At thirty or forty paces nearer it was

clearly visible, and at the half-way point it was again per
I Ifectly distinct.
knew that the remedy was easy, but was

puzzled as to the cause.

  IAfter a little reflection concluded that it arose from the

circumstance that the small hole through which the light

passed was just large enough to be visible at five hundred

yards, yet that when the same hole was partially covered by

the rebound there did not remain sufficient light to be seen

at the full distance of five hundred yards.

  I IThus prepared, again applied the principle had com

menced with and proceeded to examine whether this defect

Imight not be converted into an advantage.
       soon perceived that a lighthouse, whose number was

continually repeated with a blink, obscuring just half its

light, would be seen without any blink at all distances beyond
half its range ; but that at all distances within its half range

that fact would be indicated by a blink. Thus with two

blinks, properly adjusted, the distance of a vessel from a

first-class light would be distinguished at from twenty to thirty
miles by occultations indicating its number without any blink ;

between ten and twenty miles by an occultation with one blink,

and within ten miles by an occultation with two blinks.
   But another advantage was also suggested by this defect.
                 OCCULTING SIGNALS.               45:.

If the opaque cylinder which intercepts the light consists of

two cylinders, A and B, connected together by rods : thus --

If the compound  cylinder descend    to a, and  then rise again, there will be
                                                              a single occultation.
      ,, n                        n       b
                                           c     ,, double occultation.
     ,, ,,                    ,,                 ,, triple occultation.

Such occultations are very distinct, and are specially appli
cable to lighthouses.

   In the year 1851, during the Great Exhibition, the light

I have described was exhibited from an upper window of

my house in Dorset Street during many weeks. It had

Inot passed unnoticed by foreigners, who frequently reminded

me that they had passed my door when was asleep by

writing upon their card the number exhibited by the occult

ing light and dropping it into my letter-box.

  IAbout five or six weeks after its first appearance received

a letter from a friend of mine in the United States, express

ing great interest about             and inquiring whether its con
                 a
                                    it,

                                               I
struction was secret. My answer was, that made no
456 EXPERIMENTS IN AMERICA.

I
              it,
secret of and would prepare and send him short descrip
                                             Ia
tion of it.
                                                            a
then prepared description, of which had very
                     Ia
few copies printed.          Isent twelve of these to the proper

authorities of the great maritime countries. Most of them

were accompanied by a private note of my own to some

person of influence with whom happened to be acquainted.

   One of these was addressed to the present Emperor of the

French, then a member of their Representative Chamber. It

was dated the 30th November, 1852. Three days after            I

read in the newspapers the account of the coup of Decem

ber and smiled at the inopportune time at which my
2,

    I
letter had accidentally been forwarded. However, three

days after received from M. Mocquard the prettiest note,

saying that he was commanded    by  the Prince President to

thank me for the communication, and to assure me that the

Prince was as much attached as ever to science, and should

always continue to promote its cultivation.

The letter which was sent to the United States was placed

in the hands of the Coast Survey. The plan was highly ap

proved, and Congress made grant of 5,000 dollars, in order
                     a
                              a
to try experimentally. After long series of experiments,
a

         it
in which its merits were severely tested, report was made to
                                    a

                                        I
Congress strongly recommending its adoption. then received

   very pressing invitation to visit the United States, for the

purpose of assisting to put in action. It was conveyed to
                     it

me by an amiable and highly cultivated person, the late Mr.

Reed, Professor of English Literature at Philadelphia, who, on

his arrival in London, proposed that should accompany him
                                 I
                                             I
                                                     I
on his return in October, the best season for the voyage, and

in the finest vessel of their mercantile navy.  had long

had great wish to visit the American continent, but did
a
THE AUTHOR'S ESCAPE.                        457

Inot think it worth crossing the Atlantic, unless could have

spent a twelvemonth in America. Finding this impossible

under the then circumstances, about a month before the

Itime arrived resigned with great reluctance the pleasure of

accompanying my friend to his own country.
IIt was most fortunate that
                             was thus prevented from

embarking on board the Arctic, a steamer of the largest class.
   Steaming at the rate of thirteen knots an hour over the

banks of Newfoundland during a dense fog, the Arctic was

run into by a steamer of about half its size, moving at the
rate of seven knots. The concussion was in this instance fatal

to the larger vessel.

   This sad catastrophe was thus described by the brother of

my lost friend :--

   "On the 20th of September, 1854, Mr. Reed, with his
" sister, embarked at Liverpool for New York, in the United
" States steamship Arctic. Seven days afterwards, at noon, on
" the 27th, when almost in sight of his native land, a fatal
" collision occurred, and before sundown every human being
" left upon the ship had sunk under the waves of the ocean.
" The only survivor who was personally acquainted with my
" brother, saw him about two o'clock, p.m., after the collision,
" and not very long before the ship sank, sitting with his sister
" in the small passage aft of the dining-saloon. They were

"tranquil and silent, though their faces wore the look of
" painful anxiety. They probably afterwards left this position,
" and repaired to the promenade deck. For a selfish struggle
" for life, with a helpless companion dependent upon him, with

" a physical frame unsuited for such a strife, and above all,

" with a sentiment of religious resignation which taught him
" in that hour of agony, even with the memory of his wife and

"children thronging in his mind, to bow his head in sub
458 OCCULTING LIGHT AT BRUSSELS.
" mission to the will of God,--for such a struggle he was
" wholly unsuited ; and his is the praise, that he perished
" with the women and children."

IIn 1853 spent some weeks at Brussels. During my re

sidence in that city a Congress of naval officers from all the

maritime nations assembled to discuss and agree upon certain

Irules and observations to be arranged for the common benefit

of all. One evening had the great pleasure of receiving

the whole party at my house for the purpose of witnessing

my occulting lights.

  IThe portable occulting light which had brought with

me was placed in the verandah on the first floor, and we then

went along the Boulevards to see its effect at different dis

tances and with various numerical signals. On our return

several papers relating to the subject were lying upon the

table. The Russian representative, M.          , took up one

of the original printed descriptions and was much interested

in it. On taking leave he asked, with some hesitation,
I Iwhether would lend it to him for a few hours.
                                                  told him
I Iat once that if possessed another copy would willingly
Igive it to him; but that not being the case could only

offer to lend it. M.  therefore took it home with him,
I Iand when sat down to breakfast the next morning found

it upon my table. In the course of the day 1 met my
IRussian friend in the Park.
                              expressed my hope that he

had been interested by the bttle tract he had so speedily

returned. He replied that it had interested him so much

that he had sat up all night, had copied the whole of and
                      Ia
                                                                                 it,
that his transcript and despatch upon the subject was now

on its way by the post to his own Government.

Several years after was informed that occulting solar
        OCCULTING SUN SIGNALS.                           459

lights were used by the Russians during the siege of Sebas-

topol.

        Night Signals.

The system of occulting light applies with remarkable faci
Iflity to night signals, either on shore or at sea.
                                                     it is used

numerically, it applies to all the great dictionaries of the
Ivarious maritime nations.
                            may here remark, that there

exist means by which all such signals may, if necessary, be

communicated in cipher.

                         Sun Signals.

   The distance at which such signals can be rendered visible
exceeds that of any other class of signals by means of light.
During the Irish Trigonometrical Survey, a mountain in
Scotland was observed, with an angular instrument from
a station in Ireland, at the distance of 108 miles. This was

accomplished by stationing a party on the summit of the
mountain in Scotland with a looking-glass of about a foot

square, directing the sun's image to the opposite station. No

occultations were used ; but if the mirror had been larger,

and occultation employed, messages might have been sent, and

the time of residence upon the mountain considerably dimi
I Inished. When was occupied with occulting signals, made
Ithis widely known.
                         afterwards communicated the plan,

during a visit to Paris, to many of my friends in that capital,

and, by request, to the Minister of Marine.

  I have observed in the " Comptes Rendus " that the system

has to a certain extent been since used in the south of Algeria,

where, during eight months of the year, the sun is generally

Iunobscured by clouds as long as it is above the horizon.

have not, however, noticed in those communications to the

Institute any reference to my own previous publication.
460 OCCULTING DAYLIGHT SIGNALS.

                                 Zenith-light Signals.

   Another form of signal, although not capable of use at very
great distances, may, however, be employed with considerable
advantage, under certain circumstances. Universality and

economy are its great advantages. It consists of a looking-

glass, making an angle of 45° with the horizon, placed just
behind an opening in a vertical board. This being stuck into
the earth, the light of the sky in the zenith, which is usually
the brightest, will be projected horizontally through the open
ing, in whatever direction the person to bo communicated
with may be placed. The person who makes the signals
must stand on one side in front of the instrument ; and, by
passing his hat slowly before the aperture any number of
times, may thus express each unit's figure of his signal.

   He must then, leaving the light visible, pause whilst he
deliberately counts to himself ten.

   He must then with his hat make a number of occultations
equal to the tens figure he wishes to express.

   This must be continued for each figure in the number of
the signal, always pausing between each during the time of
counting ten.

   When the end of the signal is terminated, he must coimt

sixty in the same manner ; and if the signal he gave has
not been acknowledged, he should repeat it until it has been

observed.
   The same simple telegraph may be used in a dark night,

by substituting a lantern for the looking-glass. The whole
apparatus is simple and cheap, and can be easily carried even
by a small boy.

  I was led to this contrivance many years ago by reading an

account of a vessel stranded within thirty yards of the shore.
                SHIPWRECK SIGNALS.  461

Its crew consisted of thirteen people, ten of whom got into

the boat, leaving the master, who thought himself safer in the
ship, with two others of the crew.

   The boat put off from the ship, keeping as much out of the
breakers as it could, and looking out for a favourable place
for landing. The people on shore followed the boat for se
veral miles, urging them not to attempt landing. But not a

single word was audible by the boat's crew, who, after rowing

several miles, resolved to take advantage of the first favour

able lull. They did so -- the boat was knocked to pieces, and
Ifthe whole crew were drowned.
                                the people on the shore

could at that moment have communicated with the boat's crew,

they could have informed them that, by continuing their
course for half a mile further, they might turn into a cove,

and land almost dry.

  I was much impressed by the want of easy communication

between stranded vessels and those on shore who might

rescue them.

  I can even now scarcely believe it credible that the very
Isimple means am about to mention has not been adopted

years ago. A list of about a hundred questions, relating to

directions and inquiries required to be communicated between

the crew of a stranded ship and those on shore who wish to
aid would, am told, be amply sufficient for such purposes.
if it,
                                    by
      aI                                            a

                                                             by
Now, such list of inquiries were prepared and printed
competent authority, any system of signals which number
of two places of figures can be expressed might be used. This

list of inquiries and answers ought to be printed on cards, and

nailed up on several parts of every vessel. It would be still

better,  byconference with other maritime nations, to adopt
             A
the same system of signs, and to have them printed in each

                                a
                                                       a
                                                                      it,
                                                                                              a
language.       looking-glass,  board with hole in and
462 SHORT DISTANCE SIGNALS.

lantern would be all the apparatus required. The lan
tern might be used for night, and the looking-glass for day

signals.
   These simple and inexpensive signals might be occasionally

found useful for various social purposes.
   Two neighbours in the country whose houses, though reci

procally visible, are separated by an interval of several miles,
might occasionally telegraph to each other.

  If the looking-glass were of large size, its light and its

occultation might be seen perhaps from six to ten miles, and
thus become by daylight a cheap guiding light through chan
nels and into harbours.

  It may also become a question whether it might not in

some cases save the expense of buoying certain channels.
   For railway signals during daylight it might in some cases

be of great advantage, by saving the erection of very lofty
poles carrying dark frames through which the light of the sky

is admitted.

  IAmongst my early experiments, made an occulting hand-

lantern, with a shade for occulting by the pressure of the
thumb, and with two other shades of red and of green glass.
This might be made available for military purposes, or for
the police.

                             Greenwich Time Signals.

   It has been thought very desirable that a signal to indicate

Greenwich time should be placed on the Start Point, the
last spot which ships going down the Channel on distant
voyages usually sight.

   The advantage of such an arrangement arises from this--

that chronometers having had their rates ascertained on
shore, may have them somewhat altered by the motions to
GREENWICH TIME SIGNALS.             463

which they are submitted at sea. If, therefore, after a run
of above two hundred miles, they can be informed of the

exact Greenwich time, the sea rate of their chronometers
will be obtained.

   Of course no other difficulty than that of expense occurs
in transmitting Greenwich time by electricity to any points
on our coast. The real difficulty is to convey it to the pass

ing vessels. The firing of a cannon at certain fixed hours has

been proposed, but this plan is encumbered by requiring the
knowledge of the distance of the vessel from the gun, and
also from the variation of the velocity of the transmission of

sound under various circumstances.

   During the night the flash arising from ignited gunpowder
might be employed. But this, in case of rain or other atmo
spheric circumstances, might be impeded. The best plan for
night-signals would be to have an occulting light, which

might be that of the lighthouse itself, or another specially

reserved for the purpose.
   During the day, and when the sun is shining, the time

might be transmitted by the occultations of reflected solar
light, which would be seen at any distance the curvature of

the earth admitted.

   The application of my Zenith Light might perhaps fulfil

Iall the required conditions during daylight.
     have found that, even in the atmosphere of London, an

opening only five inches square can be distinctly seen, and its

occultations counted by the naked eye at the distance of a
Ifquarter of a mile.
                      the side of the opening were double

the former, then the light transmitted to the eye would be

four times as great, and the occultations might be observed

at the distance of one mile.

The looking-glass employed must have its side nearly in
464 TEMPLE OF SEBAP1S.

the proportion of three to two, so that one of five feet by
seven and a half ought to be seen at the distance of about
eight or nine miles.

              Geological Theory of Isothermal Surfaces.

   During one portion of my residence at Naples my attention
was concentrated upon what in my opinion is the most re
markable building upon the face of the earth, the Temple of
Serapis, at Puzzuoli.*

   It was obviously built at or above the level of the Medi

terranean in order to profit by a hot spring which supplied
its numerous baths. There is unmistakable evidence that it

has subsided below the present level of the sea, at least
twenty-five feet ; that it must have remained there during many
years ; that it then rose gradually up, probably to its former
level, and that during the last twenty years it has been again

slowly subsiding.
   The results of this survey led me in the following year to

explain the various elevations and depressions of portions of
the earth's surface, at different periods of time, by a theory

Iwhich have called the theory of the earth's isothermal

surfaces.

  I do not think the importance of that theory has been well

understood by geologists, who are not always sufficiently
acquainted with physical science. The late Sir Henry De la
Beche perceived at an early period the great light those
sciences might throw upon his own favourite pursuit, and

I* In this inquiry        profited by the assistance of Mr. Head, now the

Right Hon. Sir Edmund Head, Bart., K.C.B., late Governor-General of

Canada. An      abstract  of my own   observations    was printed in the "Abstracts
                          Geological  Society, vol.   ii. p. 72. My friend's histo
of Proceedings  " of the                             " of the Antiquarian Society.
rical views were printed in the " Transactions
GAMES OF SKILL CAN BE PLAYED BY AN AUTOMATON. 465

was himself always anxious to bring them to bear upon

Igeology.
      am still more confirmed in my opinion of the importance
of the " Theory of Isothermal Surfaces in Geology " from the

fact that a few years afterwards my friend Sir John Herschel
Iarrived independently at precisely the same theory.
                                                      have
stated this at length in the notes to the " Ninth Bridgewater

Treatise."

            Games of Skill.

   A considerable time after the translation of Menabrea's

Imemoir had been published, and after had made many
Idrawings of the Analytical Engine and all its parts, began
Ito meditate upon the intellectual means by which had

reached to such advanced and even to such unexpected
Iresults.
            reviewed in my mind the various principles which
I had touched upon in my published and unpublished papers,
Iand dwelt with satisfaction upon the power which possessed

over mechanism through the aid of the Mechanical Notation.

I felt, however, that it would be more satisfactory to the

minds of others, and even in some measure to my own, that

I Ishould try the power of such principles as had laid down,

by assuming some question of an entirely new kind, and

endeavouring to solve it by the aid of those principles which

had so successfully guided me in other cases.
IAfter much consideration
                           selected for my test the con

trivance of a machine that should be able to play a game of
purely intellectual skill successfully ; such as tit-tat-to, drafts,

chess, &c.

  I endeavoured to ascertain the opinions of persons in every

class of life and of all ages, whether they thought it required
human reason to play games of skill. The almost constant

                                               2H
4G6 GAMES OF SKILL CAN BE PLAYED BY AN AUTOMATON.

answer was in the affirmative. Some supported this view of
the case by observing, that if it were otherwise, then an
automaton could play such games. A few of those who had
considerable acquaintance with mathematical science allowed
the possibility of machinery being capable of such work ;
but they most stoutly denied the possibility of contriving
such machinery on account of the myriads of combinations

Iwhich even the simplest games included.
   On the first part of my inquiry soon arrived at a demon
stration that every game of skill is susceptible of being played
by an automaton.

   Further consideration showed that if any position of the

men upon the board were assumed (whether that position

were possible or impossible), then if the automaton could

make the first move rightly, he must be able to win the
game, always supposing that, under the given position of the
men, that conclusion were possible.

    Whatever move the automaton made, another move would
be made by his adversary. Now this altered state of the
board is one amongst the many positions of the men in which,
by the previous paragraph, the automaton was supposed
capable of acting.

   Hence the question is reduced to that of making the best
move under any possible combinations of positions of the men.

   Now the several questions the automaton has to consider

are of this nature :--

       1. Is the position of the men, as placed before him on
                the board, a possible position ? that is, one which
                is consistent with the rules of the game ?

     If2. so, has Automaton himself already lost the game ?
     If3 not, then has Automaton won the game ?
NUMBER OF THE COMBINATIONS.                    467

If If4. not, can he win it at the next move ?  so, make

         that move.

If5. not, could his adversary, if he had the move, win

          the game.

If6. so, Automaton must prevent him if possible.
If7. his adversary cannot win the game at his next

move, Automaton must examine whether he can

make such a move that, if he were allowed to

have two moves in succession, he could at the

second move have two different ways of winning

the game ;

and each of these cases failing, Automaton must look forward

to three or more successive moves.

  INow have already stated that in the Analytical Engine I

had devised mechanical means equivalent to memory, also

Ithat had provided other means equivalent to foresight, and

that the Engine itself could act on this foresight.

   In consequence of this the whole question of making an

automaton play any game depended upon the possibility of
the machine being able to represent all the myriads of com
binations relating to it. Allowing one hundred moves on each

Iside for the longest game at chess, found that the combina

tions involved in the Analytical Engine enormously surpassed
any required, even by the game of chess.

  I IAs soon as had arrived at this conclusion commenced

an examination of a game called " tit-tat-to," usually played

Iby little children. It is the simplest game with which am

acquainted. Each player has five counters, one set marked
with a + , the other set with an 0. The board consists of
a square divided into nine smaller squares, and the object
of each player is to get three of his own men in a straight

                                                                        2h2
468 GAME OF TIT-TAT-TO.

line. One man is put on the board by each player alter

nately. In practice no board is used, but the children draw

upon a bit of paper, or on their slate, a figure like any of the

following.
   The successive moves of the two players may be repre

sented as follow :--

Moves. 1.              2.       3.            4.

    JI I             11      11+           11+
              L     10 |
                 +! 1         1 0 | ,.,      |0 |
         +1 I              +1 1
                                         +1 |0

IIn this case + wins at the seventh move.
   The next step made was to ascertain what number of

Icombinations were required for all the possible variety of
moves and situations.                    found this to be comparatively

insignificant.                           mechanism by which such

  I therefore easily sketched out         IHitherto had considered

an automaton might be guided.

only the philosophical view of the subject, but a new idea

now entered my head which seemed to offer some chance of

enabling me to acquire the funds necessary to complete the

Analytical Engine.

  It occurred to me that if an automaton were made to play

this game, it might be surrounded with such attractive cir

cumstances that a very popular and profitable exhibition might
Ibe produced.
                 imagined that the machine might consist of

the figures of two children playing against each other,

accompanied by a lamb and a cock. That the child who

won the game might clap his hands whilst the cock was

crowing, after which, that the child who was beaten might cry

Iand wring his hands whilst the lamb began bleating.
      then proceeded to sketch various mechanical means by

which every action could be produced. These, when com

Ipared with those had employed for the Analytical Engine,
DIFFICULTY ARISING FROM CHOICE.  469

were remarkably simple. A difficulty, however, arose of a

Inovel kind. It will have been observed, in the explanation

gave of the Analytical Engine, that cases arose in which it
became necessary, on the occurrence of certain conditions,
that the machine itself should select one out of two or more

distinct modes of calculation. The particular one to be

adopted could only be known when those calculations on

which the selection depended had been already made.
   The new difficulty consisted in this, that when the automaton

had to move, it might occur that there were two different

moves, each equally conducive to his winning the game. In

this case no reason existed within the machine to direct his

choice : unless, also, some provision were made, the machine

would attempt two contradictory motions.

  IThe first remedy devised for this defect was to make the

machine keep a record of the number of games it had won
from the commencement of its existence. Whenever two
moves, which we may call A and B, were equally conducive
to winning the game, the automaton was made to consult the

record of the number of the games he had won. If that

number happened to be even, he was directed to take the

course A ; if it were odd, he was to take the course B.

  If there were three moves equally possible, the automaton

was directed to divide the number of games he had won by

three. In this case the numbers 0, 1, or 2 might be the

remainder, and the machine was directed to take the course

A, B, or C accordingly.

   It is obvious that any number of conditions might be thus

provided for. An inquiring spectator, who observed the

games played by the automaton, might watch a long time

before he discovered the principle upon which it acted. It

 is also worthy of remark how admirably this illustrates
470 EXHIBITION OF AUTOMATON.

the best definitions of chance by the philosopher and                   the
poet : --

       " Chance is but the expression of man's ignorance." -- Laplace.
                    " All chance, design ill understood." --Pope.

Having fully satisfied myself of the power of making such

an automaton, the next step was to ascertain whether there

was any probability, if it were exhibited to the public, of its

producing, in a moderate time, such a sum of money as would

enable me to construct the Analytical Engine. A friend, to

Iwhom had at an early period communicated the idea, enter

tained great hopes of its pecuniary success. When it became

known that an automaton could beat not merely children but

even papa and mamma at a child's game, it seemed not
unreasonable to expect that every child who heard of it would
ask mamma to see it. On the other hand, every mamma,

Iand some few papas, who heard of it would doubtless take

their children to so singular and interesting a sight.
resolved, on my return to London, to make inquiries as to
the relative productiveness of the various exhibitions of recent

years, and also to obtain some rough estimate of the probable
time it would take to construct the automaton, as well as

some approximation to the expense.

  It occurred to me that if half a dozen were made, they

might be exhibited in three different places at the same time.

Each exhibitor might then have an automaton in reserve in

Icase of accidental injury. On my return to town made the
Iinquiries alluded to, and found that the English machine lor

making Latin verses, the German talking-machine, as well as

several others, were entire failures in a pecuniary point of
Iview.
        also found that the most profitable exhibition which

had occurred for many years was that of the little dwarf,

General Tom Thumb.
CAUSES OF MAGNETIC CHANGES.  471

  IOn considering the whole question, arrived at the conclu

sion, that to conduct the affair to a successful issue it would

occupy so much of my own time to contrive and execute the
machinery, and then to superintend the working out of the

plan, that even if successful in point of pecuniary profit, it

would be too late to avail myself of the money thus acquired

to complete the Analytical Engine.

               Problem of the Three Magnetic Bodies.

   The problem of the three bodies, which has cost such un
wearied labour to so many of the highest intellects of this
and the past age, is simple compared with another which is
opening upon us. We now possess a very extensive series of
well-recorded observations of the positions of the magnetic
needle, in various parts of our globe, during about thirty

years.
   Certain periods of changes of about ten or eleven years are

said to be indicated as connected with changes in the amount

of solar spots ; but the inductive evidence scarcely rests upon
three periods, and it seems more probable that these effects

arise from some common cause.

     (1.) It has been long known that the earth has at least
               two if not more magnetic poles.

     (2.) It is probable, therefore, that the sun and moon also

                    have several magnetic poles.

    I(3.) In 1826 proved that when a magnet is brought into

                  proximity to a piece of matter capable of becom
                  ing magnetic, the magnetism communicated by
                it requires time for its full development in the
                  body magnetized. Also that when the influence
                  of the magnet is removed, the magnetized body

                    requires time to regain its former state.
472 ELECTRIC CHANGES.

This being the case, it is required, having assumed certain

positions for the poles of these various magnetic bodies, to

calculate their reciprocal influences in changing the positions

of those poles on the other bodies. The development of the

equations representing these forces will indicate cycles which

really belong to the nature of the subject. The comparisons

of a long series of observations with recorded facts will

ultimately enable us to determine both the number and

position of those poles upon each body.

Electricity possesses an analogous property with respect to
Iftime being required for its full action.
                                            the bodies of our

system influence each other electrically, other developments
will be required and other cycles discovered.

   When the equations resulting from the actions of these

causes are formed, and means of developing them arranged,
the whole of the rest of the work comes under the domain of

machinery.
             CHAPTER XXXV.

             RESULTS OF SCIENCE.

Board of Longitude --Professorship of Mathematics at the East India
  College --Professorship of Mathematics at Edinburgh --Secretaryship of
  the Royal Society--Master of the Mint --Ditto --Ditto -- Registrar-
   General of Births, Deaths, and Marriages --Ditto --Commissioner of
   Railways --Ditto --Ditto Abolished.

I IAt the commencement of life had hoped that, whilst
Iindulged in the pursuits of science, might derive from it

some advantages for my family, or at least, that it might

enable me to replace a small portion of the large expenditure,

without which one of my most important discoveries could

not be practically worked out.

  I shall now mention briefly several of those appointments
Ifor which had the vanity to suppose myself qualified, and

the simplicity to believe that fitness for the office was of the

slightest use without interest to get the appointment.

   1. In the early part of 1816 the Professorship of Mathematics

I Iat the East India College at Haileybury became vacant. The
salary, believe, was 5001. a-year.  became a candidate, and
Ihad strong recommendations from Ivory and Playfair.
                                                      was

informed that it was usual for the candidates to call on the
IDirectors.
             did so. One of them was an honest man, for
Ifhe was kind enough to tell me the truth. He said, " you

have interest, you will get it ; if not, you will not succeed."
474 BOARD OP LONGITUDE.

2. In 1819 the Professorship of Mathematics at Edinburgh

Ibecame vacant by the death of Playfair, and the succession
of Professor Leslie to his chair.       immediately became a

candidate, and received testimony of my fitness from Lacroix,

Biot, and Laplace.

   These communications, though gratifying to myself, were

Iuseless for the object. Not being a Scot, was rejected at

IEdinburgh. That visit, however, led to a very agreeable in
cident.           spent a delightful week at Kinneil with Dugald
                  The second volume of his " Philosophy of the
Stewart.

Human Mind " had fortunately fallen into my hands at an
Iearly period during my residence at Cambridge, and had

derived much instruction from that valuable work.
   3. About this time, in a conversation with Sir Joseph

IBanks, mentioned my wish to have a seat at the Board of

Longitude --an office to which a salary of 100?. a-year was

attached. Although not then appointed, hopes were held out

Iby Sir Joseph that at some future occasion might be more

successful. In 1820 another vacancy occurred in the Board
Iof Longitude.
                    called on Sir Joseph Banks to ask his

influence with the Admiralty ; this he declined, alleging as

a reason for withholding --the part had taken in the in
                    it,

                              I

stitution of the Astronomical Society.

was one of its founders, had been one of its first Hono
4. I
              by
rary Secretaries, and had taken an active part in that Com
                  which the " Nautical Almanac " was remodelled.
mittee,

      In 1824 an opportunity unexpectedly presented itself.I

was invited to take the entire organization and management

of an office for the assurance of lives, then about to be esta

blished.is

  It sufficient to state that amongst our officers were the

late Marquis of Lansdowne, the late Lord Abercrombie, the
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICE.                                   475

present Master of the Rolls, and the present Judge of the
Admiralty Court; and that our direction included some of
the first merchants in the City, two or three Directors of

the Bank of England, and about an equal number of India

Directors.

  IThe proposition made to me was that should have the

entire management of the concern as Director and Actuary,

with a salary of 1,5002. a-year, and apartments in the esta

blishment, with liberty to practise as an Actuary.

On consulting my friend the late Francis Baily, F.K.S.,

who had himself practised as an Actuary, he strongly advised
me to accept the office. He assured me that the profit arising

from private practice could scarcely be less than 1,0001. a

year, and would probably be much more.                   On

  IUnder these circumstances, accepted the proposition.

examining the materials which existed for a Table of the value

Iof lives, found in one of the addresses of Mr. Morgan, the

Actuary of the Equitable, materials with which to construct,

by the aid of various calculations, a very tolerable Table of

Ithe actual mortality in that Society. Upon this basis cal

culated the Tables of our new Institution. After three months'

labour, when the whole of the arrangements had been com

pleted, and the day for our opening had been fixed, circum

stances occurred which induced us to give up the plan. After
Ithe experience had now had of the amount of time occupied
Iby such an office, was unwilling to renew the engagement
Iwith other parties.
                      hoped by great exertions to complete
Ithe Difference Engine after the lapse of a few years, and that

should not be allowed to become a serious loser by that course.

The Institution was therefore given up, and we each contri

buted about 1001. to discharge the expenses incurred.

Within the subsequent twelvemonth, an application to take
476 GERMAN ASSURANCE COMPANIES.

the management of another Life Assurance Society was made

Ito me, which declined. That office is still in existence.
  IThe information and experience had thus gained led me

to think that the public were not sufficiently informed

respecting the nature of assurances on lives, and that a small
Ipopular work on the subject might be useful.
                                               prepared

such a work as intervals of leisure admitted, and early in

1826 published it under the title of " A Comparative View of

the various Institutions for the Assurance of Lives." This

little volume was soon translated into German, and became

the groundwork upon which the Great Life Assurance Society

Iof Gotha was founded. Every year since that event have

received a copy of the report of the state of the Institution
I--a gratifying attention which
                                 am happy to have this

opportunity of acknowledging.

   The wish expressed by my translator, in his Preface,* has
also been fulfilled by the establishment of many other excel

lent Life Assurance Offices, founded on similar principles.
   In Germany alone there were, in 1860, twenty-four Life

Assurance Companies, in which about 260,000 persons were
assured to the amount of upwards of forty millions sterling.
The oldest and most successful of these institutions have

Iadopted my Table of the Equitable experience, and am

informed that it agrees very well with the results of their own
experience up to about the fifty-seventh year. After this the

deaths are rather more frequent than those of the Equitable.

Another still more gratifying result arose. My father,

whose acquaintance with mercantile affairs was very exten-

   * " May this book soon give rise to many flourishing life assurance com
panies in our beloved fatherland, by which proportionate wealth and happi
ness may be promoted amongst us, and at the same time prepare for the
decline of lotteries."-- German translation of Babbage on Life Assurance.
       MASTERSHIP OF THE MINT.                           477

sive, was so pleased with the little book that, during the two

last years of his life, he read it through three times.

I5. In 1846 the Mastership of the Mint became vacant. In
former days it was held by Newton.  had pointed it out in
" The Decline of Science " as one of those offices to which

men of science might reasonably aspire. A complete acquaint

ance with the most advanced state of mechanical science,

which the demands of my own machinery had compelled me

to improve, added to a knowledge of the internal economy of

manufactories, appeared to me to constitute fair claims to that

office.

  IIn the event of my succeeding, had proposed to let the

whole of my salary accumulate, so that at the end of ten or

Itwelve years might retire from the office, and be enabled,

with the 20,00(W. thus earned, to construct the Analytical

I IEngine.                                               did not
      wrote to Lord Melbourne on the subject, but

mention that circumstance even to my most intimate friends.

It came, however, to the knowledge of one of them, who took

Ia very warm interest in my success ; and believe that at
Ifirst had a very fair chance. The appointment remained

for a short time in abeyance ; but it was found necessary to

detach Sheil from O'Connell, and the appointment was there

fore given to Sheil.

   Some years after, when Sheil was appointed our Minister
at the court of Tuscany, he asked me to give him a letter of

Iintroduction to the Grand Duke Leopold II. Of course

treated the application as a joke ; but Sheil assured me that

he was quite serious, and that he knew it would be of use to
Ihim.
       therefore gave him a letter of introduction to a
Isovereign from whom both before and subsequently have

been honoured by many gratifying attentions.
478 REGISTRAR-GENERAL OF BIRTHS, &c.

G. In 1849, on the promotion of Sheil, the Mastership of
Ithe Mint again became vacant.
                                  thought my own claims
Isufficiently known to the public ; but had no political in

terest. My friend Sir John Herschel was more fortunate,

and he received the appointment.

7. After a few years, the office again became vacant by the

resignation of Sir John Herschel. The Government had now

for the third time an opportunity of partially repairing its
Iformer neglect.
                  had, however, no political party to support

me, and the present Master of the Mint, Mr. Graham, then

received the appointment.

Registrar-General of Births, Deaths, $c.

8. In 1835 a new office was created, that of Registrar-

General of Births, Deaths, and Marriages. Mr. Francis Baily

and others of my friends suggested to me that, being known

to the public as qualified for this situation by my previous
Ipublications, had a fair claim to the appointment. Having
Imade inquiries on this subject,
                                  found that it would be

useless to make any application, as the place was intended for

the brother-in-law of a Secretary of State.

9. On the death of Mr. Lister, a few years after, the same

office again became vacant, when other friends then made a

similar suggestion.

  IOn making preliminary inquiries, found, as before, that

all applications would be useless, as the appointment was

intended for a military officer, Major Graham, the brother of

another Secretary of State.

                        Commissioners of Railways.

    10. Some years ago, the alarm created by accidents
occurring upon railways, induced the Government to consider
THE RAILWAY BOARD.                                       479

about the appointment of a Commission to examine into their

causes, and to lay down rules for the guidance of the Com
panies in the prevention of those dangers.

   In 1846 an Act of Parliament was passed appointing Com

missioners for the supervision of railways. Having myself

thought much upon the subject, and having had personally
Isome experience on railways,
                               had the vanity to think that
the mechanical knowledge of the author of " The Economy
of Manufactures " would justify his appointment as one of

those Commissioners.

   Applying, under such circumstances, for a Commissioner-

I Iship of the Railway Board, expected that should find few

Icompetitors with higher claims. But had no interest --a

military engineer was appointed, who already held a civil

appointment, and who died in less than two years after.

11. On the occurrence of this vacancy another military
Iofficer was appointed.
                         was again passed over, under cir
Icumstances which at the time thought must have caused

deep regret in the mind of the Minister who made the ap

pointment.

   After an existence of a few years, public opinion was so
strongly expressed against the Railway Commission that it

was dissolved.

  I am satisfied that in each of these cases, the appointment

was entirely due to family or political influence.

  I have, in the course of my experience, frequently heard of

appointments made in the most flattering and unexpected
manner ; of titles offered, in fact, in such a way, that it was

Iimpossible to decline them. Having myself seen a good deal

behind the scenes of the drama of life, have repeatedly

found that these unsolicited honours have been obtained by

the most persevering applications, and by the most servile
480 REFLECTIONS ON PATRONAGE.

flattery. Indeed, to the great scandal of public life, success

has in some instances been attained by a man condescending

for a time to oppose his own party, and, as some observer has
wittily remarked, " of attempting to break into the shop for

the purpose of serving behind the counter."

  It cannot be doubted that patronage entrusted to the dis

position of a Minister often proves an onerous and ungrateful

trust, demanding powers of discrimination and forbearance

not always found in public men ; whilst a careful observation

of the manner in which patronage is usually dispensed does

not lead to the conclusion that its exercise is always free from
the influence of corrupt motives. Even in the cases in

which such impure motives seem absent, it too frequently

happens that other influences beside a just and honest dis

crimination appear to have taken a part in regulating the

distribution of public. favour. It would be invidious to specu

late on the motives or discuss the merits of the appointments
Ito which have had occasion to refer : with their propriety
Ior otherwise
               have individually no concern : of the positive
Imotives which induced them have no knowledge, at least

Inot sufficient to justify me in condemning them on that score.

But cannot help thinking that such appointments have not

always been made without some degree of pain or misgiving,

Iand perhaps a conscientious scruple on the part of the Minis

ter; indeed have sometimes indulged a suspicion that a
little firmness to resist external pressure would occasionally

secure more fairness to candidates for public employment,

and tend to retain the services of more efficient agents of the

public weal.

Although mankind may differ among one another indi

vidually ad infinitum, they possess certain moral elements

which are common to the race. Such belong to the animal,
THE WEIGHT OF NEPOTISM.      481

and are never obliterated, though they may occasionally be
concealed by the ermine of office or the robe of state. Self-
interest is the great lever of society ; and though the patriot
profess to sacrifice it for the public good, or the cynic affect

to despise its influence as opposed to his philosophy, both
these may claim our respect, but neither should be permitted

to deceive us. A Minister who professes to cast off the attri

butes of humanity is either a victim of delusion who has suc
ceeded in deceiving himself, or a knave who is bent upon
deceiving others. He may spurn the temptation of a bribe,
because his wants do not lie in that direction ; and, not
withstanding his generous pretensions, he will never discern
merit unless accompanied by popular suffrage or political
influence: in his balance one grain of nepotism will weigh
down all the honesty he has at his disposal.

                         2i
                CHAPTER XXXVI.

                AGREEABLE BECOLLECTIONS.

IIn the course of this volume have mentioned, under other

heads, many agreeable circumstances, and many others remain

unwritten. 1 shall now confine myself to two.

  IOn one occasion when was engaged in my workshop in

arranging some machinery for experiments on a difficult part

Iof the Analytical Engine, an intimate friend called, and

went into the library to see him. An unopened letter lying
Ion the table, he asked whether usually treated my letters
              I looked at the letter, which appeared to be a
in that way.  IWhen my friend had left me,
printed one.                       a          opened
                                        a

                                         II
                                                  I it,
and found that  professed to be from the Institute of
                it

                          I
France, announcing my nomination as       corresponding

member of that distinguished body. On looking at the con

clusion for the well-known signature of my friend Arago,

found another name which could not read.       therefore

concluded that some wag had played me trick.   however

doubted whether the joke was intended to hit me or the

Academy of Sciences.

   Having left the paper on my table, returned to my
experiments. After dinner took up the neglected docu
                I              I
                         it I
                                           it
ment, and then for the first time perceived that professed
to be from the Academy of Moral Sciences. On re-examin
ing the signature, found to be that of its eminent secre
ACADEMY OP MORAL SCIENCES.                              483

tary, M. Mignet, and that it was the official announcement of

my election as a Corresponding Member of that Academy.

Now the first impression on my own mind was one of
Isincere regret.
                  felt for a moment that the Academy might

have thus honouved me not solely for my labours in their

own, but in other departments of science. This painful

feeling was, however, only momentary. It then occurred to

Ime that had written the " Economy of Manufactures," which

related to Political Economy, one section ; and the " Ninth

Bridgewater Treatise," which related to Philosophy, another
Isection of the Academy of Moral Sciences.
                                            now felt a real

Ipleasure, which amply compensated me for the transitory

regret ; and am sure no member of the many academies

who have honoured me by enrolling my name on their bst
will reproach me for stating the fact, -- that no other nomi

nation ever gave me greater satisfaction than the one to

Iwhich have now adverted.

Some years ago my eldest son, Mr. B. Herschel Babbage,

was employed by the Government of South Australia to ex

plore and survey part of the north-western portion of that

colony. After an absence of about six months, a consider
able portion of which time he spent in a desert, ho reached a
small station at the head of Spencer's GiUf, intending to wait

there until the arrival of a steamer from Adelaide, which was

expected in about a week to carry back the wool of the

distant and scattered colonists.

  It so happened that, a few days before, a Swedish merchant-

vessel, commanded by Capt. Orling, a part owner of the ship,

had also arrived in search of a freight of wool. Captain

Orling on going ashore heard of the arrival at the settlement
of a stranger from the interior, and on inquiry found that ho

bore my name.                               2i2
484 GRATEFUL SWEDES.

   He immediately went in search of my son, and having

Ifound him, said, " am not personally acquainted with your
I" father, but am well acquainted with his name : he has

" shown such kindness to a countryman of mine* that every
" Swede would be proud of an opportunity of acknowledging
" it. The steamer for which you are waiting cannot arrive
" until a week hence. There are no accommodations in this

I" station, not even a public-house ; entreat you to come on

" board my ship and be my guest until the steamer arrives
" and is ready to take you to Adelaide."

My son, who during the six previous months had slept

under no canopy but that of heaven, accepted this delightful

invitation, and enjoyed, during a week, the society of a very

agreeable and highly-informed gentleman.

  I have received many marks of attention of various kinds
from natives of Sweden -- paragraphs translated from Swedish

newspapers which were peculiarly interesting to me, en- '
Igravings, and printed volumes.
                                   have been honoured with

these attentions by persons in various classes of society up to

Ithe highest, and am confident that the enlightened and

Iaccomplished Prince to whom allude will not think me
Iungrateful when avow that the most gratifying of all these

attentions to a father, whose name in his own country has

been useless to himself and to his children, was to hear from

England's antipodes of a grateful Swede welcoming and

giving hospitality on the part of his countrymen to my son

for the sake of the name he bore.

   * It had been my good fortune to have an opportunity of rendering

justice to the merits of Mr. Schciitz, the inventor of the Swedish Difference
Engine.
CONCLUSION.  485

                                           Conclusion.

  I Iwill now conclude, as began, by invoking the attention

of my reader to a subject which, if he is young, may be of

importance to him in after-life. He may reasonably ask what
peculiarities of mind enabled me to accomplish what even
the most instructed in their own sciences deemed impossible.

  I have always carefully watched the exercise of my own
Ifaculties, and have also endeavoured to collect from the

light reflected by other minds some explanation of the ques

tion.

  I think one of the most important guiding principles has

been this: -- that every moment of my waking hours has
always been occupied by some train of inquiry. In far the
largest number of instances the subject might be simple or
even trivial, but still work of inquiry, of some kind or other,

was always going on.
    The difficulty consisted in adapting the work to the state of

I Ithe body. The necessary training was difficult. Whenever

at night found myself sleepless, and wished to sleep, took
a subject for examination that required little mental effort,
and which also had little influence on worldly affairs by its

success or failure.

  IOn the other hand, when wanted to concentrate my whole
Imind upon, an important subject, studied during the day all
Ithe minor accessories, and after two o'clock in the morning

found that repose which the nuisances of the London streets

I Ionly allow from that hour until six in the morning.

   At first had many a sleepless night before could thus

Itrain myself.
       believe my early perception of the immense power of

signs in aiding the reasoning faculty contributed much to
486 CONCLUSION.

Iwhatever success may have had. Probably a still more
Iimportant element was the intimate conviction possessed

that the highest object a reasonable being could pursue was
to endeavour to discover those laws of mind by which man's
intellect passes from the known to the discovery of the
unknown.

   This feeling was ever present to my own mind, and 1
endeavoured to trace its principle in the minds of all around
me, as well as in the works of my predecessors.
              APPENDIX.

                                        Miracles.

                                Note (A), page 394.

It has always occurred to my mind that many difficulties touching

Miracles might be reconciled, if men would only take the trouble

to agree upon the nature of the phenomenon which they call
" Miracle." That writers do not always mean the same thing
when treating of miracles is perfectly clear; because what may
appear a miracle to the unlearned is to the better instructed only
an effect produced by some unknown law hitherto unobserved.
So that the idea of miracle is in some respect dependent upon
the opinion of man. Much of this confusion has arisen from the
definition of Miracle given in Hume's celebrated Essay, namely,
that it is the " violation of a law of nature."

   Now a miracle is not necessarily a violation of any law of
nature, and it involves no physical absurdity.

   As Brown well observes, " the laws of nature surely are not
" violated when a new antecedent is followed by a new conse-
" quent ; they are violated only when the antecedent, being exactly
" the same, a different consequent is the result ;" so that a miracle
has nothing in its nature inconsistent with our belief of the
uniformity of naturo. All that we see in a miracle is an effect
which is now to our observation, and whose cause is concealed.

    The cause may bo beyond the sphere of our observation, and
would be thus beyond the familiar sphere of nature; but this
does not make the event a violation of any law of nature. The
limits of man's observation lie within very narrow boundaries,
483 APrEXDIX.

and it would be arrogances to suppose that the reach of man's
power is to form the limits of the natural world. The universe
offers daily proof of the existence of power of which we know
nothing, but whose mighty agency nevertheless manifestly
appears in the most familiar works of creation. And shall we
deny the existence of this mighty energy simply because it
manifests itself in delegated and feeble subordination to God's

omnipotence ?
    There is nothing in the nature of a miracle that should render

it incredible : its credibility depends upon the nature of the
evidence by which it is supported. An event of extreme proba
bility will not necessarily command our belief unless upon a
sufficiency of proof; and so an event which we may regard as

highly improbable may command our belief if it is sustained by

sufficient evidence. So that the credibility or incredibility of an
event does not rest upon the nature of tho event iteelf, but
depends upon the nature and sufficiency of the proof which sus
tains it.

   Mill, in speaking of Hume's celebrated principle, " that nothing
" is credible which is contradictory to experience, or at variance
" with the laws of nature," calls it a very plain and harmless pro
position, being, in effect, nothing more than that whatever is
contradictory to a complete induction is incredible.

   Admit the existence of a Deity, and the possibility of a miracle
is the natural consequence. No doubt our examination of the
evidence which sustains an unusual phenomenon should be most
carefully conducted ; but we must not measure the credibility or
incredibility of an event by the narrow sphere of our own experi
ence, nor forget that there is a Divine energy which overrides
what we familiarly call the laws of nature.

  If a miracle is not a suspension or a violation of the laws of

nature, it may fairly be asked, What is it ?

  If we define a miracle as an effect of which the cause is

unknown to us, then we make our ignorance the source of
jrx'-ortlen ! and the universe itself would be a standing miracle.
APPENDIX.  489

A miracle might be perhaps defined more exactly as an effect

which is not the consequence or effect of any known laws of

nature. Dr. Clarke defines a miracle as a singular event pro

duced contrary to the ordinary laws of nature by the intervention
of an intelligent Being superior to man. The Abbe Houteville
defines a miracle as the result of the general order of the mecha

nism of the universe. " It is," he says, " a result of the harmony

" of the general laws which God has decreed for the working out
" of the system of the universe." Spinosa says, "As men call that
" science Divine which surpasses the reach of the human mind, so
" they detect the hand of God in every phenomenon of which the
" cause is unknown to them." And certain it is that men attach
more importance to an apparent suspension or violation of the
ordinary laws of nature than to the wonderful harmony and
uniformity of the laws of the universe ; as though it implied a
greater degree of power to suspend or interfere with such laws
than to establish them and preserve their uniformity in the
economy of the universe. Whilst Nature follows out her ordi
nary course, man, familiarized with the movement of the celestial
orbs, sees myriads of globes revolve in moving harmony about
their spheres with a kind of vacant indifference, nor imagines for

a moment that he sees aught to excite his wonder or stimulate
his intelligence into inquiry ; in fact, he does not see God in His

works. But if this harmony and uniformity are interrupted for

a moment, man detects the power of God in the interruption,

Ialbeit he could not perceive it in the uniformity of natural cause

and effect. This singular obtuseness of the human mind leave
to the discussion of theologians and philosophers ; for my own

Ipart, confess my utter inability to comprehend it. Whatever

truly exists must emanate from the will of God, whether the
event falls within what we understand by the uniformity of
nature, or whether it is otherwise. A miracle must fall within
one of these categories ; and in either case it is the effect of tho
will of God. Such an interruption does not imply any notion
of caprice or imperfection in the Deity ; but, on the contrary, it
490 APPENDIX.

is one of the attributes of His power, and quite consistent with
our notions of the liberty of His will, unrestrained by any laws
which it may be His pleasure to promulgate for the government
of the universe.

   " Opera 1nut at, consilia non mutat," says St. Augustin. Miracles

may be, for anything we know to the contrary, phenomena of a
higher order of God's laws, superior to, and, under certain con
ditions, controlling the inferior order known to us as the ordinary
laws of nature.

   The great difficulty in the consideration of miracles is, that
being in the nature of things incapable of verification, the
ovidonce which would be sufficient to establish the truth of an
ordinary event within the sphere of natural phenomena would
not be sufficient to command our assent in the case of a miracle.
And this does not arise from a miracle being opposed to nature, but
on account of the infirmity of our nature ; for we are always liablo
to be deceived, not only by others, but even by our own senses.

   The extraordinary character of an event, although it does not
necessarily render the truth of its existence incredible, should,
nevertheless, put us upon our guard, and render us particularly
cautious in examining the evidence upon which its truth is
asserted. We should even examine with care and caution tho

evidence of phenomena of the most ordinary character before we
yield our complete assent to the apparent truth of their mani
festation ; and a fortiori in tho examination of the evidence
which sustains extraordinary phenomena we should require much
stronger evidence, and such as rebuts the possibility of being
deceived by other persons, or even by our senses.

   But we must bo careful to discriminate between our own

incapacity to test truth and the necessary improbability of an

event. It is plain that from our ignorance of the remote spheres
of God's action we cannot judge of His works removed from our
experience ; but a fact is not necessarily doubtful because it

cannot be reached Dy our ordinary senses. To recapitulate, we
may lay down the following propositions :--
APPENDIX.  4'J1

   1. That there is no real physical distinction between miracles
and any other operations of the Divine energy : that wo regard
them differently is because wo aro familiar with one order of

events and not the other.
   2. There is nothing incredible in a miracle, and the credibility

of a miraculous event is to be measured only by the evidence
which sustains it. And although the extraordinary character of
a phenomenon may render the event itself improbablo, it does
not, therefore, necessarily render it eithor incredible or untruo.

                                             Religion.

                              Note (B), page 403.

    St. Athanasius is not the author of the Creed which bears his

name. It did not, in fact, exist within a century after his death.
It originally appeared in a Latin text, and consequently in the

Western provinces. Gennadius, Patriarch of Constantinople,
was loss tolerant of its eccentricities, or more sensible to its
sublimity even than myself, for he was so amazed at the extra
ordinary character of its composition that he frankly pronounced
it to be the work of a drunken man. See ' Petav. Dogmat. Theo-

logica,' torn. II. lvii. c. 8, p. 687 ; and Gibbon's ' Decline and Fall,'
vol. iv. p. 335. If we may trust La Bletterie for the character

of Athanasius, nothing is more improbable than that he could be

the author of the Creed still preserving his name. " He was,"
says La Bletterie, " the greatest man of his age, and perhaps the
" greatest that the Church has ever possessed. He was endued
" with a well-balanced, a lively, and penetrating mind ; a gene-
" rous and disinterested heart; a courage and heroism always
" equal; a lively faith, and a charity without bounds; a pro-
*' found humility; a Christianity bold, but simple and noble as
" the Gospel. His eloquence was natural, distinguished by
" a rare precision of speech."

   The foundation of all roligion is the belief in a God, and that
He exists in certain relation with His creatures. Such belief
492 APPENDIX.

necessarily leads to the consciousness of some obligation towards
the Deity ; and this consciousness suggests the duty of worship ;
and in the selection of the form of this worship originates the
various creeds which distinguish and distract mankind. There

Iis a sort of geography of religion ; and regret to think that the

majority of mankind take their creed from the clime in which
they happen to be born ; and that many, and not an inconsider
able portion of mankind, suffer the sacred torch to burn out
altogether, in their contact with the world, and then vainly
 imagine that they can recover the sacred fire by striking a spark
 out of dogmatic theology !

                  Addition to the Chapter on Eailroads.

    One of the most important facts which the engine-driver ought
 to know is the exact time since the preceding train has passed
 the point of railroad on which his own engine is.

    This may be done by placing signals, about to bo described,
 by the side of or across the road at all places where such know
 ledge is most important.

     The principle to bo employed is, that at the passage of those
 places the engine itself should, in its transit, wind up a weight
 or spring. That this weight should act upon an arm standing
 perpendicularly, which would immediately commence moving
 slowly to the horizontal position. This it should attain by an
 equable motion at the end of three, five, or any desirable number
  of minutes.

     The means of raising the weight may be derived either from
 a projection below the engine or by one above it. The latter,
  which seems preferable, might be attached to a light beam tra
  versing the road to which the apparatus should be fixed.
      LIST OF MR. BABBAGE'S PRINTED PAPERS.

Many applications having been made to Oie Author and to his Publisher), for
   detached Papers which he hat from time to time printed, he takes Otis oppor
   tunity of (jiving a list of those Papers, with references to the Works in which they
   may be found.

   1. The Preface ; jointly                     with  Sir         John"]\  Memoirs       of    the   Analytical
HereoheL                                                                       Society,             Cambridge,
                                                                                             ito.

2. On Continued Products.                                             J 1813-

3. An Easay towards the Calculus of Functions. --Phil. Trans. 1815.

  4. An Essay towards the Calculus of Functions, Part. 2. -- Phil. Trans. 1816.
P. 179.

   5. Demonstrations of some of Dr. Matthew Stewart's General Theorems, to
which is added an Account of some New Properties of the Circle.-- Boy. Inst.
Jour. 1816. Vol. i. p. 6.

   6. Observations on the Analogy which                           --suPbhsilis. tsTrabnest.we1e8n17.thoP.C1a7lc9u. lus  of
Functions and other branches of Analysis.
7. Solution of some Problems by means of the Calculus of Functions. --Roy.
Inst. Jour. 1817. P. 371.
8. Note respecting Elimination. --Roy. Inst. Jour. 1817. P. 355.

  9. An Account of Euler's Method of Solving a Problem relating to the
Knight's Movo at Chess.-- Roy. Inst. Jour. 1817. P. 72.

   10. On some now Methods of Investigating the Sums of several Classes of
Infinite Series.-- Phil. Trans. 1819. P. 245.

   11. Demonstration of a Theorem relating to Prime Numbers. --Edin. Phil.
Jour. 1819. P. 46.

i 12. An Examination of some Questions connected with Games of Chance.
 --Trans. of Roy. Soc. of Edin. 1820. Vol. ix. p. 153.
    13. Observations on the Notation employed in the Calculus of Functions. --
  Trans. of Cam. Phil. Soc. 1820. Vol. i. p. 63.

and14.PoOrisnmtshe--ATprpalnicsa. tioofnRooyf.  Analysis, &c.     to  the Discovery of local        Theorems
                                                 Soc. of Edin.        Vol. ix. p. 337. 1820.

15. Translation of the Differential and Integral \ These two works were exe-
Calculus of La Croix, 1 vol. 1816.                                               cuted In conjunction with
                                                                              I  *Qe ^v* Q-
                           D*if*f.*e. renti.al« and.                             of Ely) and        1'eacock
16.  Examples  to  t.*he                                          I»ntegral.  I                     Sir John  (Dean
                                                                              I                                 Her-

Calculus. 2vols.8vo. 1820.                                                    ) schel,Bart.

   17. Examples of the Solution of Functional Equations. Extracted from the
preceding. 8vo. 1820.

   18. Note respecting the Application of Machinery to tho Calculation of
Mathematical Tables.-- Memoirs of the Astron. Soc. June, 1822. Vol. i. p. 309.

   19. A Letter to Sir H. Davy, P.E.S., on the Application of Machinery to tho
purpose of calculating and printing Mathematical Tables. 4to. July, 1822.

--2B0re. wOstner'tsheEdTihne.oJroeutirc.aol fPSrciniecnicpele. s  of the Machinery for calculating  Tables.
                                                                  Vol. viii. p. 122. 1822.

   21. Observations on the application of Machinery to the Computations of
Mathematical Tables, Dec. 1822.-- Memoirs of Astron. Soc. 1824. Vol. i.
p. 311.

   22. On the Determination of tho General Term of a new Class of Infinite
Series.-- Trans. Cam. Phil. Soc. 1824. Vol. ii. p. 218.
494 LIST OF MR. BABBAGE'S PRINTED TAPERS.

   23. Observations on tho Measurement                                           of   Heights   by tho Barometer. --
Brewster's Edin. Jour, of Science, 1824. P.
                                                                                 85.

24. On a Now Zenith Micromotor. -- Mem. Astro. Soc. March, 1825.

   25. Account of tho repetition of M. Arago's Experiments on tho Magnetism
manifested by various substances during Rotation. By C. Babbago, Esq. and
Sir John Herechol.-- Phil. Trans. 1825. P. 467.

26. On the Diving Bell.-- Eney. Metrop. 4to. 1826.

27. On Electric and Magnetic Rotation-- rhil. Tram. 1826. Vol. ii. p. 494

   28. On a method of expressing by Signs tho Action of Machinery. -- Phil.
Tram. 1826. Vol. p. 250.

  29. On tho Influence of Signs in Mathematical Reasoning. -- Tram. Cam.
Phil. Soc. 1826. Vol. ii. p. 218.
         1
                               ii.
    80.  A Comparative View of tho different Institutions                                       for tho Assuranoo  of
                                                                                                1827.
Life.       vol. 8vo. 1826. German Translation. Weimar,

    31.  On Notation. --Edinburgh Encyclopedia. 4to.

32. On Porisms. -- Edinburgh Encyclopedia. 4to.

33. A Table of tho Logarithms of tho Natural Numbers, from to 108,000.
                                                                                                     1

Stereotyped.  1  vol. 8vo. 1826.

34. Three editions on coloured paper, with tho Preface and Instructions
translated into German and Hungarian,                                            Mr. Chas. Nagy, havo been pub
lished at Pesth and Vienna. 1834.             a
                                                         by
--M35e. mN. oAtiscteronr.esSpoecc.tin4gtos.om18e27.ErroVrosl.cioimi. mp.on65.to many Tables of Logarithms.

Evidence on Savings-Banks, before Committee of the House of Commons,

1827.

Ma3c6h.inEesrys.ay--oEnncyt.heMegteronpe.ral   Principles  which                      regulate  the  Application of

                                              4to. 1829.

aScmie3on7nc. eg.sLtetLtVeeogrli.ttiomii.aTt.pe.P.85aC.nodur1t8Iel2lne9a.gyitiTmonhaisttheoleCPttrheoirpldorwretiaonsn. --traoBnfreslBwaistrettedhrs'sinotfEodthinFor.etwnJoocuhSr,eaxneodsf
published by M. Villorme, Member of the lnstituto of France.

    38.  --AcCcoomunmtunoicfattehdo  groat Congress of Philosophors ot Berlin,                              on 18 Sept.
1828.                                by Correspondent [C. B.J, Edin. Journ.                                    Science by
       i.                                                                                            of
            p.                                                                                            of
                4

                                                a
                                                                             p.
David Brewster. Vol. x. p. 225. 1829.
39. Note on tho Description of Mammalia. --Edin. Jour,
         187. Ferussac Bull, vol. xxv. 296.                                                          Science, 1829.

Vol.

   40. Reflections on the Decline of Science in England, and on some of its
Causes. to. and 8vo. 1830.

   41. Sketch of tho Philosophical Characters of Dr. Wollaston and Sir H.                       ia
Davy. Extracted from the Decline of Science. 1830.                                                                        a

   42. On the Proportion of Letters occurring in Various Languages, in letter                                                         :
to M. Que'telot.-- Correspondence Matliematique et Physique. Tom. vi. p. 136.

   43. Specimen of Logarithmic Tables, printed with different coloured inks
and on variously-coloured papers, in twenty-one volumes 8vo. London. 1831.

   The object of this Work, of which one.single copy only was printed, to ascertain by experi
ment the tints of the paper and colours or the inks least fatiguing to the eye.

   One hundred and fifty-one variously-coloured papers were chosen, and the same two pages of
my stereotype Table of Logarithms were printed upon them in inks of the following colours
light blue, dark blue, light green, dark green, olive, yellow, light rod, dark red, purple, and
black.

   Each of these twenty volumes contains papers of the same colour, numbered in the same order,
and there are two volumes printed with each kind of ink.
LIST OP MR. BABBAGE'S PRINTED PAPERS.                                                             495

   Tho twenty-first volume contains metallic printing of the nme specimen In gold, silver, and
copper, upon vellum and on variously-coloured papers.

   For the same purpose, about thirty-five copies of the complete table of logarithms were printed
on thick drawing paper of various lints.

   An account of this work may be found in the Edin. Journ. 0/ Science (Rrewster'*), 1832.
Vol. vl. p. 144.

   44. Economy of Manufactures and Machinery. 8vo. 1832.
      There are many editions and also American reprints, and several Translations of this Work

          Into German, French, Italian, Spanish, Sec

   45. Lotter  to Sir David  BrAewrts.t--er,Breownsttehro's  AdEvdainn.tagJoeuro,f  a Collection  of tho
Constants of    Nature and                                                          of Science.    1832.

Vol. vi. p. 334. Reprinted by order of the British Association for tho Pro
motion of Science. Cambridge, 1833. See also pp. 484, 490, Report of the
Third Meeting of tho British Association. Reprinted in Compte Rendu des
Traveaux du Congres General do Statistique, Bruxelles, Sept. 1853.

   46. Barometrical Observations, made at the Fall of the Staubbach, by Sir
John Hersehel, Bart., and C. Babbago, Esq. -- Brewster's Edin. Jour. of Science.
Vol. vi. p. 224. 1832.

   47. Abstract of a Paper, entitled Observations on the Temple of Serapis, at
Pozzuoli, near Naples ; with an attempt to explain the causes of the frequent
elevation and depression of large portions of the earth's surface in remote
                                  causes continue in action at the present timo.
periods, and to prove that those  March, 1834. See Abstract of Proceedings of
Read at Geological Society, 12
Geol. Soc. Vol. ii. p. 72.

This was the first printed publication of Mr. Babbage's Geological Theory of the Isothermal
   Surfaces of the Earth.

   48. The Paper itself was published in the Proceedings of the Geological Soc.
1846.

   49. Reprint of the same, with Supplemental Conjectures on the Physical
State of the Surface of the Moon. 1847.

  J.50. Letter from Mr. Abraham Sharpe to Mr. Crosthwait, Hoxton, 2 Feb.

1721-22. Deciphered by Mr. Babbage. See Life of Flamsteed, by Mr. F.
Baily. Appendix, pp. 348, 390. 1835.

   51. The Ninth Bridgewater Treatise. 8vo. May, 1837; Second Edition,
Jan. 1838.
                                                -- Proceedings
   52. On some    Impressions    in Sandstone.                  of Geological       Society.
Vol. ii. p. 439.                Mag. Ser. 3.    Vol x. p. 474.    1837.
                  Ditto, Phil.

   52*. Short account of a mothod by which Engraving          on Wood may be ren
dered more useful for the Illustration and Description of
Meeting of British Association at Newcastle. 1838. P.        Machinery. -- Report of

                                                             154.

53. Letter to the Members of the British Association. 8vo. 1839.

   54. General Plan, No. 25, of Mr. Babbage's Great Calculating or Analytical
Engine, lithographed at Paris. 24 by 36 inches. 1840.

55. Statement of tho circumstances respecting Mr. Babbage's Calculating
Engines. 8vo. 1843.
  56. Note on tho Boracic Acid Works in Tuscany. --Murray's Handbook
Central Italy. First Edition, p. 178. 1843.                                                       of

   57. On the Principles of Tools for Turning and Planing Metals, by Charles
Babbage. Printed 111 the Appendix of Vol. ii. Holtzapffel Turning and Me
chanical Manipulation. 1846.

58. On the Planet Neptune.-- The Times, 15th March, 1847.

   59. Thoughts on tho Principles of Taxation, with reference to a Property
Tax and its Exceptions. 8vo. 1848. Second Edition, 1851. Third Edition,

1852.
     An Italian translation of the first edition, with notes, was published at Turin, in 1891.
   496 LIST OF MR. BABBAGE'S HUNTED TAPERS.

   the60t.otKalotsoolarresepcelicptsineginth1e851p.in--k    projections  from the Sun's disc observed during
                                                          Proceedings    of the Astron. Sor., vol. xii., No. 7.

   61. Laws of Mechanical Notation, with Lithographic Plate. Privately
   printed for distribution. 4to. July, 1851.

   62. Note respecting Lighthouses (Occulting Lights). 8vo. Nov. 1851.
      Communicated to the Trinity House. 30 Nov. 1851.
      Reprinted in the Appendix to the Report on Lighthouses presented to the
         Senate of the United States, Feb. 1852.
      Reprinted in the Mechanics' Magazine, and in various other periodicals and

      newspapers. 1852-3.

   It was reprinted in various parts of the Report of Commissioners appointed
      to examine into the state of Lighthouses. Parliamentary Paper. 1861.

      63. The Exposition of 1851 ; or, Views of the Industry, the Science, and the
   Government of England. lis. G<1. Second Edition, 1851.

      64. On the Statistics of Light-houses. Compte Rendu des Traveaux du
   Cougres General, Bruxelles, Sept. 1853.

     65. A short description of Mr. Babboge's Ophthalmoscope is contained in

   tho Report on the Ophthalmoscope by T. Wharton Jones, F.R.S. -- British and
   Foreign Medical Review. Oct. 1854. Vol. xiv. p. 551.

      66. On Secret or Cipher Writing. Mr. T.'s Cipher Deciphered by C.--
   Jour. Soc. Arts, July, 1851, p. 707.

      67. On Mr. T.'s Second Inscrutable Cipher Deciphered by C.--Jour. Soc.
   Art», p. 777, Aug. 1854.

      68. On Submarine Navigation.-- IUustraUd News, 23rd June, 1855.
   1 69. Letter to the Editor of the Timet, on Occulting Lights for Lighthouses
   and Night Signals. Flashing Lights at Sebastopol. 16th July, 1855.

      70. On a Method of Laying Guns in a Battery without exposing the men
   to the shot of tho enemy. The Times, 8 Aug., 1855.

      71. Surla Machine Sue'doise de M. Scheutz pour Calculer les Tables Mathe-
   matiques. 4to. Comptes Rendus et VA cad&mie des Sciences. Paris, Oct. 8, 1855.

   --7Q2u.arOtenrlytheJoAucrtnioanl  of Ocean-currents in tho Formation                 ofthe Strata of the Earth .
                                      Geologicid Society, Nov. 1856.

      73. Observations by Charles Babbage, on the Mechanical Notation of
   Scheutes's Difference Engine, prepared and drawn up by his Son, Major Henry
   Provost Babbage, addressed to the Institution of Civil Engineers. Minute* of
   Proceedings, vol. xv. 1856.

      74. Statistics of the Clearing-House. Reprinted from Trans, of Statistical
   Soc. 8vo. 1856.

      75. Observations on Peerage for Life. July, 1833. Reprinted, 1856.

   76. Observations addressed to the President and Fellows of the Royal Society
   on the Award of their Medals for 1856. 8vo.

,     77. Table of  WthinedoRwesla. t--iveMeFcrhe.quMeangc. y2o4tfhOcJacnur.re1n8c5e7.  of the Causes  of Break
   ing Plate-glass

   78. On Remains of Human Art, mixed with the Bones of Extinct Races of
   Animals. Proceedings of Roy. Soc. 26th May, 1859.
   79. Passages from the Life of a Philosopher. 8vo. 1864.
                                                                       Analytical Engine. 4to. It will
      80. [In the  Vp.r,esVs]L. ,     History             oVf ItIhLe,                                     con
   tain Chapters                     VH., and                          of the present Volume. Reprint of  The

   Translation of General Menabrea's Sketch of tho Analytical Engine invented
   by Charles Babbage. From the Bibliotheque Universelle de Geneve, No. 82,
   Oct. 1842. Translated by the lato Countess of Lovelace, with extensive Notes
   by the Translator.

   lOXDOIt: PttlNtKIi BT W. ClOWKS aMI SOSS, StaNFORD CTHKKt aND CHaItlKG CROBS.

> <ft
                                                         39 Paternostbr Row, E.G.
                                                               London, June 1864.

     GENERAL LIST OF WORKS,

                 NEW BOOKS AND NEW EDITIONS,

                                                                                PUblIShED P.V

Messrs. LONGMAN, GREEN, LON GMAN, ROBERTS, and GREEN.

Arts, Manufactures, &c              11          Miscellaneous and Popular Meta
Astronomy, Metborolooy, Popular                    physical Works
                                                                                   C
Geography, &e                       7           Natural History and Popular
                                                                                   8
UlOGRaPhY AND MbMOIRS               3               Science                      20
                                                                                 17
Chemistry, Medicine, Surobky, and   9           Periodical Publications          13
                                                Poetry and the Drama             18
   the Allied Sciences                          Religious Works                  16
                                                Rural Sports, &c                 16
Commerce, Nayioation, and Mercan    19          Travels, Voyages, &c
                                      4         Works of Fiction                 19
  tile Affairs                                  Works of Utility and General In
Criticism, Philology, &c            11
Fine Arts and Illustrated Editions                 formation
General and School Atlases
Historical Works                     20
Indbx
                               -1

                            21 24

                            Historical Works.

The History of England from                     The History of England during

   the Full of Wolsey to the Death of Eliza        the Reign of George the Third. By
   beth. By James Anthony Frocde, M.A.            William Massky, M.P. 4 vols. 8vo. 48».
   lute Fellow of Exeter College, Oxford.
                                                The Constitutional History of
     Vols. I. to IV. the Reign of Henry           England, since the Accession of George III.
  VIII. Second Edition, 64».
                                                  1760--1860. By Thomas Erskine May,
     Yols. V. and VI. the Reigns of Edward
   VI. and Mary. Second Edition, 28.<.             C.B. 2 vols. 8vo. 33».

     Vols. VII. and VIII. the Reign of          Lives of the Queens of England,
  Elizabeth, Vols. I. and II. Third Edi            from State Papers and other Documentary
                                                   Sources : comprising a Domestic History of
   tion, 28s.                                      England from the Conquest to tho Death of
                                                  Queen Anne. By Agnks Strickland.
The History of England from                        Revised Edition, with many Portraits.
  the Accession of James II. By Lord
                                                   8 vols. post 8vo. 60s.
   Macaulay. Three Editions, as follows.
     Library Edition, 5 vols. 8vo. £i.          Lectures on the History of Eng
     Cabinet Edition, 8 vols. post 8vo. 48».
     People's Edition, 4 vols. crown 8vo. 10s.    land. By Wiu.b£{ Longman. Vol. I.

Revolutions in English History.                    from the Earliest Times to the Death of

  By Rorert Vauohan, D.D. 3 vols. 8vo. 45».       King Edward II. with 6 Maps, a coloured
     Vol. I. Revolutions of Race, 15a.
    Vol. II. Revolntions in Religion, 15s.         Plate, and 53 Woodcuts. 8vo. 15».
    Vol. III. Revolutions in Government, 15s.
                                                A Chronicle of England, from b.c.
                                                55   to  a.d. 1485
                                                         Doyle.     ; written  and illustrated by
                                                J.  E.              With 81    Designs engraved

                                                on Wood and printed in Colours by
                                                E. Evans. 4to. 42s.

                                                                                                   S
                    NEW WORKS published bv LONGMAN and CO.

History of Civilization. By Henry                                                                                         The Pall of the Roman Re
                                                                                                                          public : a Short History of the Last Cen
Thomas Buckle. 2 vols. £1 1"».                                                                                      i                                                   By the Rev.
                                                                                                                          tCuhryarolfestheMCeormivmaolenw, eBa.lDth..  12mo. 7*. (3d.
  Vol. L England and France,                                                   Fourth
                                                                               Second                                     Critical and         Historical Essays
Edition, 21s.
                                                                                                                             contributed to  the Edinburgh Review. By
  Vol. II. Spain and Scotland,                                                                                            the Bight Hon. Lord Macaulay.

Edition, 16s.

Democracy in America.                    By                                    Alexis                                     Library Edition, 3 vols. 8vo. 30s.
                                          by                                   Henry
  De Tocqueville. Translated                                                                                              Traveller's Edition, in 1 voL 21*.
Reeve, with an Introductory Notice by the                                                                                 In Pocket Volumes, 3 vols. fcp. 21*.
                                                                                                                          People's Edition, 2 vols. crown 8vo.
Translator. 2 vols. 8vo. 21s.

The Spanish Conquest in
America, and its Relation to the History of
SBVlyaovlseAr.yIr.ta&hnudII.rto28tHsh. eeVlpGosol.vse. rIn4ImI.ev&notlIsV.o.f  Colonies.                                  The Biographical History of
                                                                               8vo. £3.                                   Philosophy, from   itsByOrigGineorigneGrHeekcne rtyo

                                                                               16s. each.                                 the Present Day.   and enlarged Edition.
                                                                                                                          Lewks. Revised
HiEMIIsu.etro8orplvereoy. 2inD8so'.AtfhuaebntdighTinVemeoe,l.RoDIefI.IfD.Co.a1rl2vmsiVn. ao. ltsi.oBnyI.J.ainInId.
                                                                                                                          8vo. 16s.

Library History of Prance, in                                                                                             History of the Inductive Sciences .
                By Eyre Evans                                                  Crowe.
6 vols. 8vo.   Vol. II. 15s. Vol.                                                                                           ByWilliam Whewell, D.D. F.R.S. Master
                                                                               III. 18s.                                     of Trin. Coll. Cantab. Third Edition. 3 vols.
Vol. I. 14s.
                                                                                                                             crown 8vo. 24s.

Vol. IV. nearly ready.                                                                                                    Egypt's Place in Universal His

Lectures       on     the HiBtory of                                                                                        tCtCor.a.rytIiCoI..n; sCJ.a.ont4tBrHuevisslosltl,oesr.sicM,a8.vlAoD...DIn£.vWoeist8tThisgr.aanmtisVoalnaon.tyle.dIVllu.Bbsiyys

   France. By  the  late Sir James Stephen,                                                                                  nearly ready.

LL.D. 2 vols. 8vo. 24*.

ThwealHl,isDt.oDr. yLoorfdGBreisehocpe.    ByC.ThiRL-                                                                     Maunder's         Historical Treasury ;
                                         of St. David's.
                                                                                                                             comprising a  General Introductory OutUn*
8 vols. 8vo. £3 ; or in 8 vols. fcp. 28s.                                                                                    of Universal  History, and a Series of Sepa

The Tale       of the Great Persian                                                                                       rate Histories. Fcp. 8vo. 10s.

   War, from  the Histories of Herodotus. By                                                                              Historical and Chronological Bn-
the Kev. G. W. Cox, M.A. late Scholar of
Trin. Coll. Oxon. Fcp. 8vo. 7». 6o\
                                                                                                                          vcBthye.cenlBoiGep.nsrWeetdaiotafoo, ErdmvwpernaeCtrsshder,nootnfinoFUgl.onSgi.viiAnce.arslaaLilbbNrrHoaietrisiifcateonasrnyd.toocf otBhanysll
Ancient History of Egypt, As                                                                                                                                           [/n ft* press.
                                                                                                                          Queen.
   syria, and Babylonia. By the Author of
   ' Amy Herbert.' Fcp. 8vo. 6s.

Critical History of the                                                        Lan                                        History of Christian                         Missions ;
   guage and Literature of Ancient                                                                                           their Agents and their Results.            By T.W. M.
  By William Mure, of Caldwell.                                                Greece.
                                                                                5 vols.                                ,  Marshall. 2 vols. 8vo. 24s.

   8vo. £3 9s.                                                                                                            History of the Early Church,
                                                                                                                          from the First     Preaching of the          Gospel to
History of the Literature of                                                                                              the Council of     Nicssa, a.d. 325.           By th*
  ATCrnoacnriensnlaettweGdarelelbcye.LtehwBe yisRP,irgohBfeatsrtsH.oornaK.n.OdS.iMrbyiGJLeJLo.KrRoW.e.
                                                                                                                          Author of ' Amy Herbert.' Fcp. 8vo. 4s. 6d.

Donaldson, D.D. 3 vols. 8vo. 36s.                                                                                         History of Wesleyan Methodism.

History of       the    Romans under                                                                                         By George Smith, F.A.S. New Edition,
                By the  Rev. Charles Meri-                                                                                   with Portraits, in course of publication m
   the Empire.                                                                                                               31 parts, 64 each.
valb, B.D. 7 vols. 8vo. with Maps, £5.
NEW WORKS purlished ry LONGMAN* and CO.                                                                                              S

History of Modern Music ; a Course              History of Medicine, from the Ear
   of Lectures delivered at the Royal Institu
  tion. By John Hullah, Professor of               liest Ages to the Present Time. By
   Vocal Music in King's College and in           Edward Meryon, M.D. F.G.S. Vol. I.
   Queen's College, London. Post 8vo. 6s. Gd.      8vo. 12». 64

                           Biography and Memoirs.

Sir John Eliot, a Biography :                   Felix Mendelssohn's Letters from
                                                Italy and Switzerland, translated by LADY
  1590--1632. By John FCester. With             Wallace, Third Edition, with Notice »f
                                                MFtr.aeCnnshdlaoetlresldesoybhyjnL'aasnddyLiLfWeetataenlrdlsafWcroeom.rkNs1,e8bw33y  Henry
   2 Portraits on Steel, from the Originals at
  Port Eliot. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 30».                                                                                                 to 1847,
                                                                                                                                     Editio»,
Letters and Life of Francis                     with Portrait. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 5». each.
   Bacon, including all his Occasional Works.
   Collected and edited, with a Commentary,     Diaries of a Lady of Quality,
  by J. Speddino, Triu. Coll. Cantab. Vols.        from 1797 to 1844. Edited, with Notes, by
  I. and II. 8vo. 24».                             A. Hayward, Q.C. Post 8vo. 10s. Gd.

Life of Bobert Stephenson, F.B.S.               Becollections of the late William
  By J. C. Jeaffreson, Barrister-at-Law,
                                                   Wilberforce, M.P. for the County of York
  and William Pole, F.R.S. Memb. Inst,
  Civ. Eng. With 2 Portraits and many Il          during nearly 30 Years. By J. S. Harforb,

lustrations. 2 vols. 8vo.  [Just ready.            D.C.L. F.R.S. Post 8vo. 7s.

Life of the Duke of Wellington.                 Life and Correspondence of

   By the Rev. G. R. Gleio, M.A. Popular          Theodore Parker. By John Weiss. With
   Edition, carefully revised; with copious
                                                   2 Portraits and 19 Wood Engravings.
   Additions. Crown 8vo. 5s.
                                                   2 vols. 8vo. 30».

Brialmont and Gleig's Life of the Duke          Southey's Life of Wesley. Fifth

   of Wellington. 4 vols. 8vo. with Illustra       Edition. Edited by the Rev. C. C. Southey,
                                                  M.A Crown 8vo. 7s. Gd.
  tions, £2 lis.
Life of the Duke of Wellington, partly          Thomas Moore's Memoirs, Jour
                                                nal, and Correspondence.      Edited and
   from the French of M. Brialmont, partly
   from Original Documents. By the Rev.         abridged from the First Edition by Earl
   G. R. Gleio, M.A. 8vo.with Portrait, 15s.    Russell. Square crown 8vo. with 8 Por

                                                traits, 12». Gd.

Apologia pro Vita Sua: being a                  Memoir of the Bev. Sydney Smith.
   Reply to a Pamphlet intitled ' What then
  does Dr. Newman mean? ' By John                 By his Daughter, Lady Holland. With
   Henry Newman, D-D. 8vo.
                                                   a Selection from his Letters, edited by Mrs.
Father Mathew : a Biography.                       Austin. 2 vols. 8vo. 28s.
   By John Francis Maguire, M.P. Second
                                                Life of William Warburton, D.D.
   Edition, with Portrait. Post 8vo. 12». 6rf.  Bishop of Gloucester from        to 1779. By
                                                                           1760    8vo. with
Borne ; its Bulers and its Institutions.        the Rev. J. S. Watson,
                                                                           M.A.
    By the same Author. New Edition in pre
    paration.                                   Portrait, 18».

                                                Fasti Bboracenses : Lives of the

Life of Amelia Wilhelmina Sieve-                Archbishops of York. By the late Rev.
   king, from the German. Edited, with the      W. H. Dixon, M.A. Edited and enlarge*
  Author's sanction, by Catherine Winr-         by the Rev. J. Raine, M.A. In 2 vols.
   worth. Post 8vo. with Portrait, 12s.         Vol. 1. comprising the Lives
                                                of Edward III. 8vo. 15s.         to the Death
                  NEW WORKS published by LONGMAN and CO.

Vicissitudes of Families. By Sir                 Arago's Biographies of Distin
                                                                 Scientific Men. By Francois
   Bernard Burke, Ulster King of Arms.           gAuriashgeod.
  First, Second, nr.d Third Series. 3 vols.      Smith,         F.TRr.aSn,stlhaetedRevb.yB.APdomwirealll,WM. AI.I,.
                                                 and R. Grant, M.A. 8vo. 18s.
   crown 8vo. 12s. 6rf. each.
                                                 Maunder's Biographical Trea
Biographical Sketches. By Nassau
                                                    sury: Memoirs, Sketches, and Brief Notices
   W. Senior. Post 8vo. 10s. 6rf.
                                                   of above 12,000 Eminent Persons of Alt
Essays in Ecclesiastical Biogra
  phy. By the Right Hon. Sir J. Stephen,            Ages and Nations. Fcp. 8vo. 10».

   I.L.D. Fourth F.dition. 8vo. 14s.

                  Criticism, Philosophy, Polity, §c.

Papinian: a Dialogue on State Affairs            Miscellaneous Remains from the

between a Constitutional Lawyer and a            CWohmamtoenl-yp.laceEdBitoeodk  of the late  Archbishop
Country Gentleman about to enter Public                                          by Miss
Life. By George Atkinson, B.A. Oxon.                                                          Whatkly.

                                                 Post 8vo.                       [Just ready.

Serjeant-at-Law.             [Nearly ready.      Essays on the Administrations of

On Representative Government.                    Great Britain from 1783 to 1830, contributed
  By John Stuart Mill. Second Edition,
                                                 to the Edinburgh Review by the Right Hon.
    8vo. 9s.                                     Sir G. C. Lewis, Bart. Edited by the
                                                 Right Hon. Sir E. Head, Bart. 8vo. with
Dissertations and Discussions. By the
   same Author. 2 vols. 8vo. 24s.                Portrait, 15s.

On Liberty.' By the samo Author. Third                           Sy the same Author.          Form of

   Edition. Post 8vo. 7s. 6d.                    A Dialogue on the Best
                                                    Government, 4s. Gd.

Principles of Political Economy. By tho          Essay on the Origin and Formation of
   same. Fifth Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. 30s.
                                                    the Romance Languages, 7s. Gd.

A System of Logic, Batiocinative and             Historical Survey of the Astronomy of

   Inductive. By the same. Fifth Edition.           the Ancients, 15s.

    2 vols. 8vo. 25s.                            Inquiry into the Credibility of the
                                                    Early Roman History, 2 vols. 30s.
Utilitarianism. By the same. Svo. So.

Lord Bacon's Works, collected                    On the Methods of Observation and
  and edited byR. L. Ellis, M.A., J. Speddinci,
                                                    Reasoning in Politics, 2 vols. 28s.
  M.A. and D. D. Heath. Vols. I. to V.
                                                 Irish Disturbances and Irish Church
   Philosophical IForks. 6 vols. 8vo. £4 6s.
                                                    Question, 12s.
  Vols. VI. and VII. Literary and Profes
                                                 Remarks on the Use and Abuse oi
   sional Works. 2 vols. £1 16s.
                                                    some Political Terms, 9s.
Bacon's Essays, with Annotations.
                                                 On Foreign Jurisdiction and Extradi
  By R. Whatkly, D.D. late Archbishop of
   Dublin. Sixth Edition. 8vo. 10s. 6d.             tion of Criminals, 2s. Gd.

Elements of Logic. By R. Wiutely,                The -Fables of Babrius, Greek Text
                                                   with Latin Notes, Part I. 5s. Gil. Part II.
   D.D. late Archbishop of Dublin. Ninth
   Edition. 8vo. 10s. Gd. crown 8vo. 4s. Gd.         3s. 6d.

Elements of Rhetoric.        By the sauio        Suggestions for the Application of the
                               8vo. 10s. 6d.
   Author. Seventh Edition.                         Egyptological Method to Modern History, Is.
   crown 8vo. 4s. Gd.
                                                 An Outline of the Necessary
English      3ynonymes.    Edited  by Arch
           Whately. 5th  Edition.  Fcp. 8vo.        Laws of Thought : a Treatise on Pure and
   bishop                                           Applied Logic. By the Most Rev. W.
                                                    Thomson, D.D. Archbishop of York. Crown

                                                     8vo. 5s. Gd.
            NEW WORKS published by LONGMAN and CO.

The Elements of Logic. By Thomas                            Southey's Doctor, complete in One
Shedden, M.A. of St. Peter's Coll. Cantab.                    Volume. Edited by the Rev. J.W. Warter,

Crown 8vo.               [ Just ready.                         B.D. Square crown 8vo. 12s. Gd.

Analysis of Mr. Mill's System of                            Historical and Critical Commen

   Logic. By W. Stebbinq, M.A. Fellow of                       tary on the Old Testament ; with a New

    Worcester College, Oxford. Post 8vo.                      Translation. By M. M. Kalisch, Ph. D.
                                             [ Just ready.    Vol. I. (It msis, 8vo. 18s. or adapted for the
                                                              General Reader, 12s. Vol. II. Exodus, 15s.
Speeches of the Bight Hon. Lord
                                                               or adapted for the General Reader, 12s.
   Macaulay, corrected or Himself. 8vo. 12».

Lord Macaulay's Speeches on                                 A Hebrew Grammar, with Exercises.
    Parliamentary Reform in 1831 and 1832.                    By the same. Part 1. Outlines with Exer
   16ino. Is.                                                 cises, 8vo. 12s. 6rf. Key, 5s. Part II. Ex

A Dictionary of the English                                    ceptional Forms and Constructions, 12s. Gd.
   Language. By R. G. Latham, M.A. M.D.
   F.R.S. Founded on that of Dr. Johnson, as                A New Latin-English Dictionary.
  edited by the Rev. H. J. Todd, with nume                     By the   Rev. J.   T. White,   MJ..A.E.ofRCidodrplues,
   rous Emendations and Additions. Pub                         Christi              and Rev.
    lishing in 36 Parts, price 3s. 6</. each, to                        College,
   form 2 vols. 4to.                                           M.A. of St Edmund Hall, Oxford. Imperial

The English Language. By the same                              8vo. 42s.
   Author. Fifth Edition. 8\-o. 18s.
                                                            A Diamond Latin-English Dictionary,
                                                               or Guide to the Meaning, Quality, and
                                                               tAhceceRnetuv.atJio. nE.ofRLidatdinle,ClMas.sAic. al   Words.    By
                                                                                                                     32mo. 4s.

Handbook of the English Language.                           A New English- Greek Lexicon,
   By the same Author. Fourth Edition.                         containing all the Greek Words used by-
                                                               Writers of good authority. By C. D. Yonge,
   Crown 8vo. Is. Gd.                                         B.A. Fourth Edition. 4to. 21s.

Elements of Comparative Philology.                          A Lexicon, English and Greek,
   By the same Author. 8vo. 21s.                               abridged for the use of      Schools from his
                                                               ' English-Greek Lexicon      ' by the Author,
Thesaurus of English Words and                                 C. D. Yonge, B.A. Square 12mo.
   Phrases, classified and arranged so as to
   facilitate the Expression of Ideas, and assist                                             [·faff ready.
   in Literary Composition. By P. M. Roget,
   M.D. 14th Edition, crown 8vo. 10s. Gd.                   A Greek-English Lexicon. Com

Lectures on the Science of Lan                                piled by H. G Liddell, D.D. Dean of
                                                               Christ Church, and R. Scott, D.D. Master
guage, delivered at the   Royal  Institution.                  of Balliol. Fifth Edition, crown 4to. 31s. Gd.
                         Fellow
By Max Muller, M.A.              of All Souls
College, Oxford. First Series, Fourth
Edition. 8vo. 12s. Second Series nearly                     A     Lexicon,    LiGdrdeeekll    and English,
                                                                                            and Scott's Greek-
ready.                                                         abridged from
                                                               English Lexicon. Tenth Edition, square

The Debater ; a Series of Complete                             12nio. 7s.Gd.

   Debates, Outlines of Debates, and Questions              A Practical Dictionary of the
   for Discussion. By F. Rowton. Fcp.
    8vo. 6s.                                                   French and English Language. By L.
                                                               Contanseau. 7th Edition. Post 8vo. 10s. Gd.
A Course of English Beading,
   adapted to every taste and capacity; or,                 Contanseau's Pocket Dictionary,
  How and What to Read. By the Rev. J.
  Pycroft, B.A. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.                                  French and English ; being a close
                                                               Abridgment of the above, by the same
                                                               Author. 18ino. 5s. 2nd Edition.

Manual of English Literature,                               New Practical Dictionary of the
   Historical and Critical : with a Chapter on
  English Metres. By T. Arnold, B.A.                           German Language; German-English, and
  Prof. of Eng. Lit. Cath. Univ. Ireland.
   Post 8vo. 10s. Gd.                                          English-German.    By the Rev. W. L.
                                                               Blacsley, M.A, and Dr. Garl Martin
                                                               Friedlander. Post 8vo. [/« the press.
            NEW WORKS published by LONGMAN and CO.

Miscellaneous Works and Popular Metaphysics.

Recreations of a Country Parson:                 From Matter to Spirit: the Result
                                                 of Ten Years' Experience in Spirit Mani
   being a Selection of the Contributions of
   A. K. H. B. to Fraser's Magazine. Second      festations.  By C. D. with a Preface by
   Sekies. Crown 8vo. 3a. 6<i
                                                 A. B. Post 8vo. 8s. Gd.

The Commonplace Philosopher in                   The    History   of   thNeatioSnsu, peanrdnainturAalll
   Town and Country. By the same Author.
                                                    in  All Ages  and
   Crown 8vo. 3t Gd.
                                                 Churches, Christian and Pagan; demon
Leisure Hours in Town; Essays Consola            strating a Universal Faith. By William
                                                 Howttt. 2 vols. post 8vo. 18s.
   tory, Esihetical, Moral, Social, and Do
   mestic By the same. Crown 8vo. 3a. Gd.        Chapters on Mental Physiology.

Friends in Council: a Series of                    By Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. F.R.S.

   Readings and Discourses thereon. 2 vols.         Second Edition. Post 8vo. 8s. Gd.

    fcp. 8vo. 9s.                                Essays        selected from         CoByntHreibnury

                                                    tions to  the Edinburgh Review.

                                                 Rooers. Second Edition. 3 vols. fcp. 21s.

Friends in Council,        Second  Series.       The Eclipse of Faith; or, a Visit to a

   2 vols. post 8vo. 14s.                           Religious Sceptic. By the same Author.
                                                    Tenth Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.
Essays written in the Intervals ;of
                                                 Defence of the Eclipse of Faith, by its
   Business. Fcp. 8vo. 2s. Gd.
                                                    Author ; a Rejoinder to Dr. Newman's
Companions of My Solitude.         By the           Reply. Third Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 3s. 6d

   same Author. Fcp. 8vo. 3s. Gd.                Selections from the Correspondence
                                                   of R. E. H. Greyson. By the same Author.
Lord Macaulay's Miscellaneous                       Third Edition. Crown 8vo. 7s. Gd.

Writings :  comprising     his Contributions to  Fulleriana, or the Wisdom and Wit of
Knight's     Quarterly     Magazine, Articles       Thomas FuLLer,with Essay on his Life and
                                                    Genius. By the same Author. 16mo. 2s. Gd.
from the Edinburgh Review not included in

his Critical and Historical Essays, Biogra

phies from the Encyclopedia Britannica,          Reason and Faith, reprinted from the
                                                    Edinburgh Review. By the same Author.
Miscellaneous Poems and Inscriptions.
                                                    Fourth Edition. Fcp. 8vo. Is. 6rf.
2 vols. 8vo. with Portrait, 21».

The Bev. Sydney Smith's Mis                      An Introduction to Mental Phi

   cellaneous Works ; including his Contribu       losophy, on the Inductive Method. By
   tions to the Edinburgh Review.                  J. D. Morell, M.A. LL.D. 8vo. 12s.

     Library Edition. 3 vols. 8vo. 36».          Elements of Psychology, containing the
                                                    Analysis of the Intellectual Powers. By
     Travellee's Edition, in 1 vol. 21s.
                                                     the same Author. Post 8vo. 7s. Gd.
     In Pocket Volumes. 3 vols. 21s.
                                                 The Senses and the Intellect.
     People's Edition, 2 vols. crown 8vo. 8s.      By Alexander Bain, M.A. Professor of

Elementary Sketches of Moral Philo                  Logic in the University of Aberdeen. Se
                                                    cond Edition. 8vo. 15s.
   sophy, delivered at the Royal Institution.
   By the same Author. Fcp. 8vo. 7s.             The Emotions and the "Will, by the
                                                    same Author ; completing a Systematic
The Wit and Wisdom of the Bev.                      Exposition of the Human Mind. 8vo. 15s.

   Sydney Smith : a Selection of the most        On the Study of Character, including
   memorable Passages in his Writings and           an Estimate of Phrenology. By the same
    Conversation. 16mo. 7s. Gd.
                                                    Author. 8vo. 9s.
NEW WOKKS purlished by LONGMAN and CO.

Hours with the Mystics : a Contri                  The Philosophy of Necessity; or
                                                      Natural Law as applicable to Mental, Moral,
   bution to the History of Religious Opinion.       and Social Science. By Charles Bray.
                                                      Second Edition. 8vo. 9s.
  By Rorert Alfred Vaughan, B.A. Se
                                                   The Education of the Feelings and
   cond Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 12s.             Affections. By the same Author. Third

Psychological Inquiries, or Essays                    Edition. 8vo. 3s. 6rf.

   intended to illustrate the Influence of the     Christianity and Common Sense.
   Physical Organisation on the Mental Facul         By Sir Willougury Jones, Bart. M.A.
   ties. By Sir B. C. Brodie, Bart. Fcp. 8vo.
                                                      Trin. Coll. Cantab. 8vo. 6».
  5s. Part II. Essays intended to illustrate

   some Points in the Physical and Moral
   History of Man. Fcp. 8vo. 5».

Astronomy, Meteorology, Popular Geography, $c.

Outlines of Astronomy. By Sir                      Physical Geography for Schools
  J. F. W. Herschel, Bart, M.A. Seventh
                                                     and General Readers. By M. F. Maury,
   Edition, revised ; with Plates and Woodcuts.      LL.D. Author of ' Physical Geography of
    8vo. 18».                                      tho Sea,' &c
                                                                 [Nearly ready.
              Two Plates are new in this Edition,
   one showing tho willow-leaved structure of      A Dictionary, Geographical, Sta
   the Sun's photosphere, the other exhibiting     tistical, and Historical, of the various Coun
   a portion of the Moon's surface from a
   model by Mr. Nasmyth.                           tries, Places, and principal Natural Objects

Arago's Popular Astronomy.                         in the World. By J. R. M'Culloch, Esq.

   Translated bv Admiral W. H. Smyth,              With 6 Maps. 2 vols. 8vo. 63s.
   F.R.S. and R. Grant, M.A. With 25 Plates
   and 358 Woodcuts. 2 vols. 8vo. £2 5s.           A General Dictionary of Geo
                                                      graphy, Descriptive, Physical, Statistical,
Arago's Meteorological Essays, with                   and Historical : forming a complete
   Introduction by Baron Humroldt. Trans              Gazotteer of the World. By A. Keith
   lated under tho superintendence of Major-          Johnston, F.R.S.E. 8vo. 30s.
   Gcneral E. Sarine, R.A. 8vo. 18».
                                                   A Manual of Geography, Physical,
The Weather-Book ; a Manual of
                                                      Industrial, and Political. By W. Hughes,
   Practical Meteorology. By Rear-Admiral             F.RG.S. Professor of Geography in King's
  Rorert Fitz Roy, R.N. F.R.S. Third                  College, and in Queen's College, London.
   Edition, with 16 Diagrams. 8vo. 15s.               With 6 Maps. Fcp. 8vo. 7». 6d.

                                                        Or in Two Parts:--Part I. Europe,
                                                     3s. 6</. Part IL Asia, Africa, America,

                                                      Australasia, and Polynesia, 4s.

Saxby's "Weather System, or Lunar                  The Geography of British History ; a
Influence on Weather. By S. M. Saxry,
R.N. Principal Instructor of Naval En                 Geographical Description of the British
                                                      Islands at Successive Periods, from the
gineers, H. M. Steam Reserve.  Second                 Earliest Times to the Present Day. By
                                                      the same. With 6 Maps. Fcp. 8vo. 8s. Ga\
Edition. Post 8vo. 4s.

Dove's Law of Storms considered                    The British Empire ; a Sketch of

   in connexion with the ordinary Movements           the Geography, Growth, Natural and Poli
   of the Atmosphere. Translated by R. H.             tical Features of the United. Kingdom, its
   Scott, M.A. T.C.D. 8vo. 10». Gd.                  Colonies and Dependencies. By Caroline
                                                      Bray. With 5 Maps. Fcp. 8vo. 7s. 64
Celestial Objects for Common
  Telescopes. By the Rev. T. W. Werr,              Colonisation and Colonies : a Series
  MA. F.R.A.S. With Map of tho Moon,                             delivered before the University
                                                   of Lectures
   and Woodcuts. lCmo. 7s.                         of Oxford.    By Herman Merivale, M.A.

                                                   Professor of Political Economy. 8vo. 18s.
8 NEW WORKS .purlished iiy LONGMAN and CO.

The Africans at Home : « popular                  j  Maunder's Treasury             of Geogra
             of Africa and the   Africans. By
Description                     M.A. Second             phy, Physical, Historical,  Descriptive, and
the Rev. R.  M. Macrrair,
                                                  |  Political. Completed by W. Hughes,
Edition ; including an Account of the Dis            F.R.G.S. With 7 Maps and 16 Plates.

covery of the Source of the Nile. With               Fcp. 8vo. 10».

Map and 70 Woodcuta. Fcp. 8vo. is.

             Natural History am I Popular Science.

The Elements of            Physics or                Phillips's Elementary Introduc
                           Neil Arnott,                ttFiio.oRnn.sSt.oanMadnidneArWadldo.igtiHyo,n. swM, itihlblyrerx,Hte. nFJs..Giv.eSB.rAoltoePrroaeet,
   Natural Philosophy. By
M.D. F.R.S. Physician Extraordinary to                  8vo. with Woodcuta, 18».

the Queen. Sixth Edition. Part L 8vo.

10». Gd.

Heat Considered as a Mode of                         Van Der Hoeven's Handbook of
                                                     Zooloot. Translated from the           CSelacornrd,
   Motion ; a Course of Lectures delivered at        Dutch Edition bv the Rev. W.
   the Royal Institution. By Professor JonN          M.D. F.R.S. 2 vols. 8vo. with 24 Plate* of

  Tyndall, F.1J.S. Crown 8vo. with Wood              Figures, CO».

    cuts, 12». 6rf.

Volcanos, the Character of their                     The Comparative Anatomy and

   Phenomena, their Share in the Structure              Physiology of the Vertebrate Animals. By
                                                        RichAnD Owen, F.R.S. D.C.L. 2 vols.
   and Composition of the Surface of the Globe,         8vo. with upwards of 1,200 Woodcuts.

  &c. By G. Poui.rtt Scnopit, M.P. F.R.S.                                                 [/n the press.

   Second Edition. 8vo. with Illustrations, 15».

A Treatise on Electricity, in                        Homes without Hands : an Account
                                                     of the Habitations constructed by various
  Theory and Practice. By A. Dr la Rivr,                                                           Princi
                                                     Animals, classed according         to  their  Wood,
   Prof, in the Academy of Geneva. Trans             ples of Construction. By       Rev.
                                                                                            J. G.
  lated by C. V. Walrer, F.R.S. 3 vols.              M.A. F.L.S. Illustrations on Wood by G.
                                                     Pearson, from Drawings by F. W. Keyl
   8vo. with Wooilcuts, £3 13».

The Correlation of Physioal                          and E. A. Smith. In course of publication

   Forces. By W. R. Grove, Q.C. V.P.R.S.             in 20 Parts, Is. each.
   Fourth Edition. 8vo. 7».6rf.
                                                     Manual of Ccelenterata. By J. Reay
The Geological Magazine; or,
Monthly Journal of Geology. Edited by                   Giuiene, B.A. M.R.I.A. Edited by the
T. Ri'PERT Jonrs, F.G.S. Professor of                  Rev. J. A. Galrraith, M.A. and the Rev.
                                                        S. Haughton, M.D. Fcp. 8vo. with 39
                                                        Woodcuts, os.

Geology in    the   R. M. College, Sandhurst ;       Manual of Protozoa ; with a General Intro
assisted by         Woodward, F.G.S. F.Z.S.             duction on the Principles of Zoology. By
             J. C.                                      the same Author and Editors. Fcp. 8vo.

British Museum. 8vo. with Illustrations,                with 16 Woodcuts, ?».

price 1». 6rf. monthly.

A Guide to Geology. By J. Phillips,                  j Manual of the Metalloids. By J. Apjohn,
   M.A. Professor of Geology in the University
   of Oxford. Fifth Edition ; with Plates and               M.D. F.R.S. and the same Editors. Fcp.
                                                            8vo. with 38 Woodcuts, 7». 6A
   Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo. is.

A Glossary of Mineralogy. By                           The Alps : Sketches of Life and Nature

   H. W. Bristow, F.G.S. of the Geological           i in the Mountains. By Baron H. Von
   Survey of Great Britain. With 486 Figures,              Berlepsch. Translated by the Rev. L.
   Crown 8vo. 12».
                                                     j Stephen, M.A With 17 Illustrations.
                                                     , 8vo. lis.

1
                        NEW WORKS ruunshKD by LONGMAN anu CO.

 The Sea and its Living Wonders.                    Bryologia Britannica ; containing

    Ily Dr. G. Hartwiq. Second (English)               the Mosses of Great Britain and Ireland,
                                                       arranged and described. By W. Wilson.
     Edition. Sro. with many Illustrations. 18s.      8vo. with 01 Plates, ii$. or coloured, £4 is.

 The Tropical World. By the same                    The Indoor Gardener. By Miss

    Author. With 8 Chromoxylographs and                Mauno. Fcp. 8vo. with coloured Frontis
     172 Woodcuts. 8vo. 21s.                           piece, is.

Sketches of the Natural History                     Loudon's Encyclopaedia of Plants ;
   of Ceylon. By Sir J. Emerson Tennent,               comprising the Specific Character, Descrip
                                                       tion, Culture, History, &C. of all the Plants
    K.C.S. LL.D. With 82 Wood Engravings.             found in Great Britain. With upwards of
     Post 8vo. 12». 6U                                 12,000 Woodcuts. Svo. £3 13». 6A

 Ceylon. By the same Author. Bth Edition;           Loudon's Encyclopaedia of Trees and
    with Haps, &c and 90 Wood Engravings.              Shrubs; containing the Hardy Trees and
    2 vols. 8vo. £2 10».]
                                                       Shrubs of Great Britain scientifically and
Marvels and Mysteries of In                            popularly described. With 2,000 Woodcuts.
    stinct ; or, Cariosities of Animal Life. By
   G. Garratt. Third Edition. Fcp. 8vo. Is.            8vo. 50s.

Home Walks and Holiday Ram                          History of the British Fresh
                                                      water Alga.1. By A. IL H aSsau, M.D.
    bles. By the Rev. C. A. Johns, B.A. F.L.S.
    Fcp. 8vo. with 10 Illustrations, (is.              With 100 Plates' of Figures. 2 vols. 8vo.
                                                       price £1 los.
Kirby and Spence's Introduction
                                                    Maunder's Scientific and Lite
    to Entomology, or Elements of the Natural
    History of Insects. Seventh Edition. Crown         rary Treasury ; a Popular Encyclopaedia of
                                                       Science, Literature, and Art. Fcp. 8vo. 10».
     8vo. 5s.
                                                    A Dictionary of Science, Litera
Maundor's Treasury of Natural
                                                       ture, and Art; comprising the History
    History, or Popular Dictionary of Zoology.
   Revised and corrected by T. S. Cobbold,             Description, and Scientific Principles of
   M.D. Fcp. 8vo. with 900 Woodcuts, 10s.              every Branch of Human Knowledge. Edited
                                                       by W. T. Bbasdk, F.R.S.L. and E. Fourth
The Treasury of Botany, on the
  Plan of M mndcr's Treasury. By J. Lind-              Edition, revised and corrected.

   ley, M.D. and T. Moore, F.L.S. assisted                                                [/n the press.
   by other Practical Botanists. With 16
                                                    Essays on Scientific and other
   Plates, and many Woodcnts from designs                                           Edinburgh and
                                                    subjects, contributed  to  the
  byW. H. Fitch. Fcp.8vo. [Inthtpras.               Quarterly Reviews.     By  Sir  H. Holland,
                                                    Bart , M.D. Second Edition. Svo. lis.
The Rose Amateur's Quide. By
                                                    Essays from the Edinburgh and
   Thomas Rivers. 8th Edition. Fcp. Svo. is.                                         Addresses and
                                                    Quarterly Reviews ;    with
The British Flora ; comprising the                  other Pieces. By Sir            W. Herschel,.
                                                                           J. F.
   Phrenogamous or Flowering Plants and the         Bart. M.A. 8vo. 18».

  Kerns. By Sir W. J. Hooker, K.H. and
  G. A. Walker-Arnott, LL.D. 12mo.

  with 12 Plates, Us. or coloured, 21i.

Chemistry, Medicine, Surgery, and the Allied Sciences.

A Dictionary of Chemistry and                       Handbook of Chemical Analysis,

the Allied Branches of other Sciences ;               adapted to the Unitary System of Notation :
                                                       Based on Dr. H. Wills' Anleitung zur chent-
fHouennderdy   on that  of the late Dr. lire. By      isehen Analyse. By F. T. CosInOTON,
                        F.C.S. assisted by eminent    M.A. F.C.S. Post 8vo. Is. Gd.--Tables of
              Watts,                                  Qualitative Analysis to accompany tit*

Contributors. 4 vols. 8vo. in course of                same, 2s. C<l.
publication in Monthly Parts. Vol. I.

J Is. 6d. and Vol. II. 26a are now ready.

                                                                                                          /
10 NEW WORKS toblishbd by LONGMAN and CO.

A Handbook of Volumetrical                        Lectures on the Principles and
Analysis. By Rorert H. Soott, M.A.
                                                     Practice of Physic. By Thomas Watson,
T.C.D.  Post 8vo. 4s. Gd.                            M.D. Physician-Extraordinary to the

Elements of Chemistry, Theore                        Queen. Fourth Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. 34s.

  tical and Practical. By William A.              Lectures on Surgical Pathology.
  Miller. M.D. LLD. F.R.S. F.G.S. Pro               By J. Paget, F.R.S. Surgeon-Extraordinary
   fessor of Chemistry, King's College, London.
  3 vols. 8vo. £i 12s. Part I. Chemical             to the Queen. Edited by W. Tdrnkk, M.B.
   Physic*. Third Edition enlarged, lis.
  Part II. Inorganic Chemistry. Second               8vo. with 117 Woodcuts, 21a.
  Edition, 20s. Part III. Organic Che
   mistry. Second Edition, 20s.                   A Treatise on the Continued

A Manual of Chemistry, De                            Fevers of Great Britain. By C. M u kchison,
                                                     M.D. Senior Physician to the London Fever
  scriptive and Theoretical. By William              Hospital. 8vo. with coloured Plates, 18s.
   Odlino, M.B. F.R.S. Lecturer on Che
  mistry at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Part      Demonstrations of Microscopic
   I. 8vo. 9s.
                                                     Anatomy; a Guide to the Examination of
                                                     the Animal Tissues and Fluids in Health

A Manual of Chemistry, Descriptive                and Disease, for the use of the Medical and

   and Theoretical, for the use of Medu-al        Veterinary Professions. Founded on a

  Students. By the same Author. Part I.           Course of Lectures delivered by Dr. Harlby,
  crown 8vo. with Woodcuts, 4s. Gd. Part
  II. (completion) just ready.                    Prof. in Univ. Coll. London. Edited by
                                                  G. T. Brown, late Vet. Prof. in the Royal

The Diagnosis and Treatment of                    Agric. Coll. Cirencester. 8vo. with Illus

                                                  trations.              \_Neurly ready.

the Diseases of Women;     incBlyudinGg raithlye  Anatomy, Descriptive and Sur
Diagnosis of Pregnancy.
Hewitt, M.D. Physician to the British               gical. By Henry Guay, F.R.S. With

Lying-in Hospital. 8vo. 16s.                         410 Wood Engravings from Dissections.
                                                     Third Edition, by T. Holmes, M.A. Cantab.
Lectures on the Diseases of In
   fancy and Childhood. By Chari.es West,            Royal 8vo. 28».
   M.D. &c Fourth Edition, revised and
   enlarged. 8vo. Hs.                             Physiological Anatomy and Phy-

Exposition of the Signs and                         siologv of Man. By the late It. 11. Todd.
                                                     M.D. F.R.S. and W.Bowman, F.R.S. of
   Symptoms of Pregnancy : with other Papers         King's College. With numerous Illustra
   on subjects connected with Midwifery. By         tions. Vol. 11. 8vo. 25s.
  W. F. Montgomery, M.A. M.D. M.R.I.A.

   8vo. with Illustrations, 25s.                  A New Edition of VoL I. revised and
                                                    edited by Dr. Lionel S. Bealk, is pre
A System of Surgery, Theoretical
   and Practical. In Treatises by Various            paring for publication.

Authors, arranged and edited by T. Holmes,        The Cyclopaedia        of Anatomy and
M.A. Cantab. Assistant-Surgeon to St.                                    Rby the late B. Todd,
George's Hospital. 4 vols. 8vo.                      Physiology. Edited

VoL I. General Pathology. lis.                    M.D. F.RS. Assisted by nearly all the

Vol. II. Local Injuries-- Diseases                most eminent cultivators of Physiological
   the Eye. 21s.
                                    of            Science of the present age. 5 vols. 8vo.

                                                  with 2,853 Woodcuts, £G 6s.

Vol. III. Operative Surgery. Diseases             A Dictionary         of Practical Medi
   of the Organs of Special Sense, Respiration,
   Circulation, Locomotion and Innervation.         cine. By J.        Copland, M.D. F.R.S.
                                                                       the larger work by the
    21*.                                             Abridged from
                                                     Author, assisted  by J. C. Copland. 1 vol.
VoL IV. Diseases of the Alimentary
                                                  8vo.                         [/» Me press.

Canal, of the Urino-genitary Organs, of the       Dr. Copland's Dictionary of Practical

Thyroid, Mamma and Skin ; with Appendix
N of Miscellaneous Subjects, and General
                                                  Medicine (the larger work).  3 vols. 8vo.

Index.  [ iVeoriy ready.                          £b lis.
                   NEW WORKS ruBusHRD by LONGMAN and CO.                II

The Works of Sir B. C. Brodie,                     A Manual of Materia Medica
Bart. Edited by Chaulks Hawkins,
                                                   and Therapeutics, abridged from Dr.
F.R.C.S.E. 2 vols. 8vo.  [In the pros.
                                                   Perbira's Elements by F. J. Farrb, M.D.
                                                   Cantab. assisted by R. Bentley, M.R.C.S.
Medical Notes and Reflections.                     and by R. Waruinoton, F.C.S. 1 vol.
  By Sir H. Holland, Bart. M.D. Third
                                                   8vo.   [In October.
   Edition. 8vo. 18».

Hooper's Medical Dictionary, or                    Dr. Fereira's Elements of Materia
                                                      Medica and Therapeutics, Third Edition, by
   Encyclopaedia of Medical Science. Ninth           A. S. Taylor, M.D. and G. O. Rees, M.D.

   Edition, brought down to the present time          3 vols. 8vo. with numerous Woodcuts,

  by Ai.ex. Hknry, M.D. 1 vol. 8m                     £3 15».
                                   [In the press.

The Fine Arts, and Illustrated Editions.

The New Testament of Our Lord                      The History of Our Lord, as exem

and Saviour Jesus Christ. Illustrated with            plified in Works of Art: with that of His
                                                      Types, St. John the Baptist, and other
numerous Engravings on Wood from the                  Persons of the Old and New Testament.
                                                     By Mrs. Jameson and Lady Eastlakb.
OLD MASTERS. Crown 4to. price 63».                    Being the Fourth and concluding Series of
                                                     'Sacred and Legendary Art;' with 31
cloth, gilt top; or price So be. elegantly            Etchings and 281 Woodcuts. 2 vols. square
bound in morocco.                                     crown 8vo. 42».
                         [In October.
                                                        In the same Series, by Mrs. Jameson. '
Lyra Germanica ; Hymns for the
                                                   Legends of the Saints and Martyrs.
   Sundays and Chief Festivals of the Christian       Fourth Edition, with 19 Etchings and 187

  Year. Translated by Catherine Wink-                 Woodcuts. 2 vols. 31s. Gd.
  worth ; 125 Illustrations on Wood drawn
  by J. Leighton, F.S.A. Fcp. 4to. 21».            Legends of the Monastic Orders. Third

Cats' and Farlie's Moral Em                           Edition, with 11 Etchings and 88 Woodcuts
blems ; with Aphorisms, Adages, and Pro               1 vol. 21t.
verbs of all Nations : comprising 121
                                                   Legends of the Madonna. Third Edition.
Illustrations on Wood by J. Leiqhton,
F.S.A. with an appropriate Text                       with 27 Etchings and 165 Woodcut*.
R. Pigot. Imperial 8vo. 31s. Gd.       by             1 vol. 21».

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress :
  Cwith 126 Illustrations on Steel and Wood

   by Bennett ; and a Preface by the Rev.
   C. Ki.nosi.ey. Fcp. 4to. 21s.

                         Arts, Manufactures, fyc.

Encyclopaedia of Architecture,                     The Engineer's Handbook ; ex

   Historical, Theoretical, and I 'radical. By        plaining the Principles which should guide
  Joseph Gwilt. With more than 1,000                  the young Engineer in the Construction of
   Woodcuts. 8vo. 42s.                                Machinery. By C. S. Lowndes. Post8vo.oi.

Tuscan Sculpture, from its Revival                 The Elements of Mechanism,

   to its Decline. Illustrated with Etchings          for Students of Applied Mechanics. By
   and Woodcuts from Original Drawings and            T. M. Goodevk, M.A. Professor of Nat.
                                                      Philos. in King's Coll. Lond. With 206
  Photographs. By Chari.es C. Perkins.                Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 6s. 6«t
                                   [In the press.
12 NEW WORKS published by LONGMAN and CO.

Tire's Dictionary of Arts, Manu                  The Theory of War Illustrated
                                                 Lbiyeunt.u-mCoelr.ousP.ExaLm. pMlesacDfroomugaHlils.tory.
  factures, and Mines. lie-written and en                                                                       By
                                                                                                            Third
  larged by Rorert Hunt, F.R.S., assisted
                                                 Edition, with 10 Plans. Post 8vo. 10s. 6rf.
   by numerous gentlemen eminent in Science
  and the Arts. With 2,000 Woodcuts. 3 vols.     Collieries and Colliers ; A Hand

   8vo. £4.

Encyclopaedia of Civil Engineer                  book of   the Law  Ca.ndFloeawdilnegr,  Cases relating
   ing, Historical, Theoretical, and Practical.  thereto.                                  Barrister-at-
  By E. Crest, C.E. With above 3,000                        By J.
   Woodcuts. 8vo. 42».                           Law, Stipendiary Magistrate. Fcp.8vo. 6».

Treatise on Mills and Millwork.                  The Art of Perfumery ; the History

  By W. Fairbairn, C.E. F.R.S. With 18              and 1 heory of Odours, and the Methods of
                                                    Extracting the Aromas of Plants. By
   Plates and 322 Woodcuts. 2 vols. 8vo. 32s.       Dr. Piksse, F.C.S. Third Edition, with
   or each vol. separately, 16s.                    53 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. 10s. Gil.

Useful Information for Engineers. By             Chemical, Natural, and Physical Magic,
  the same Author. Fiiist and Second
   Series, with many Plates and Woodcuts.           for Juveniles during the Holidays. By the
                                                    same Author. With 30 Woodcuts. Fcp.
   2 vols. crown 8vo. 21s. or each vol. sepa
                                                     8vo. 3s. «./.
   rately, 10s. 6</.
                                                 The Laboratory of Chemical Wonders :
The Application of Cast and 'Wrought                A Scientific Melange for Young People.
   Iron to Building Purposes. By the same           By the same. Crown 8vo. 5s. Crf.

Author. Third Edition, with Plates and           Talpa ; or, the Chronicles of a Clay

Woodcuts.                  [Nearly ready.           Farm. By C. W. Hoskyns, Esq. With 24
                                                   Woodcuts from Designs by G. Cbuik-
The Practical Mechanic's Jour                       miank. 16mo. 5s.6rf.

   nal : An Illustrated Record of Mechanical     H.B.H. The Prince Consort's

   and Engineering Science, and Epitome of          Farms : An Agricultural Memoir. By John
   Patent Inventions. 4to. price Is. monthly.      Chalmers Morton. Dedicated by per
                                                    mission to Her Majesty the Quskn. With
The Practical Draughtsman's
  Book of Industrial Design. By W. John             40 Wood Engravings. 4to. 52s. Ga\

   son, Assoc Inst. C.E. With many hundred       Handbook of Farm Labour, Stcam.Water,
                                                   Wind, Horse Power, Hand Power, &c By
   Illustrations. 4to. 28s. Gil.
                                                    the same Author. l6mo. Is. 6d.
The Patentee's Manual: a Treatise
on the Law and Practice of Letters Patent
         use of Patentees                        Handbook of Dairy Husbandry; com
J.for the   H. Johnson.    and Inventors. By        prising the General Management of a Dairy
J. and                      Post 8vo. 7». 6rf.      Farm, &c By the same. l6ino. Is. 6rf.

The Artisan Club's Treatise on                   Loudon's Encyclopaedia of Agri
    the Steam Engine, in its various Applica
   tions to Mines, Mills, Steam Navigation,         culture: Comprising the Laying-out, Im
  Railways, and Agriculture. By J. Bourne,          provement, and Management of Landed
   C.E. Fifth Edition; with 37 Plates and           Property, and the Cultivation and Economy
   546 Woodcuts. 4to. 42».                          of the Productions of Agriculture. With
                                                     1,100 Woodcuts. 8vo. 31s. 6rf.
A Catechism of the Steam Engine, in
                                                 Loudon's Encyclopaedia of Gardening :
   its various Applications to Mines, Mills,
   Steam Navigation, Railways, and Agricul          Comprising the 1 heory and Practice of
   ture. By the same Author. With 80                Horticulture, Floriculture, Arboriculture,
   Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.                          and Landscape Gardening. With 1,000
                                                    Woodcuts. 8ro. 31s. tid.
The Story of the Guns. By Sir J.
                                                 Loudon's Encyclopaedia of Cottage, Farm,
   Emerson Tennent, K.C.S. F.R.S. With              and Villa Architecture and Furniture. With
   33 Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 7s. 6rf.
                                                    more than 2,000 Woodcuts. 8vo. 42s.
        NEW WORKS published by LONGMAN and CO.                                   13

History of Windsor Great Park                  Bayldon's Art of Valuing Bents
and Windsor Forest. By William Men-               and Tillages, and Claims of Tenants upon
                                                  Quitting Farms, both at Michaelmas and
zies, Resident Deputy Surveyor. With a            Lady-Day. 8vo. I0». 6A

Map, and 20 Photographs by the Earl of

Caithness and Mr. Bambridoe. Imperial
        [ Just ready.
folio.

        Religious and Moral Works.

 An Exposition of the 39 Articles,             Bev. T. H. Home's Introduction

    Historical and Doctrinal. By E. Harold        to the Critical Study and Knowledge of the
    Browne, D.D. Lord Bishop of Ely. Sixth        Holy Scriptures. Eleventh Edition, cor
                                                  rected, and extended under careful Editorial
     Edition, 8vo. 16s.                           revision. With 4 Maps and 22 Woodcuts
                                                 and Facsimiles. 4 vols. 8vo. £) 13s. Gd.
 The Pentateuch and the Elohistic
    Psalm.«, in Reply to Bishop Colenso. By    Rev. T. H. Home's Compendious In

     the same Author. 8vo. 2s.                    troduction to the Study of the Bible, being
                                                  an Analysis of the larger work by the same
 Examination Questions on Bishop                 Author. Re-edited by the Rev. John
    Browne's Exposition of the Articles. By      Ayre, M.A. With Maps, &c. Post 8vo. 9s.
   the Rev. J. Gorle, M.A. Fcp. 3s. Gd.
                                               The Treasury of Bible Know
Five Lectures on the Character
   J.of St. Paul ; being the Hulsean Lectures     ledge, on the plan of Maunder's Treasuries.
   for 1862. By the Rev. a Howsos, D.D.          By the Rev. John Ayre, M.A. Fcp. 8vo.
                                                  with Maps and Illustrations. [ In the press.
     Second Edition. 8vo. 9s.
                                               TheGreek Testament ; withNotes,
A Critical and Grammatical Com
                                                  Grammatical and Exegetical. By the Rev.
   mentary on St. Paul's Epistles. By C. J.      W. Webster, M.A and the Rev. W. F.
   Ellicott, D.D. Lord Bishop of Gloucester      Wilkinson, M.A. 2 vols. 8vo. £2 4s.,

    and Bristol. 8vo.                          Vol. I. the Gospels and Acts, 20s.
                                               Vol. II. the Epistles and Apocalypse, 24s.
Galatians, Third Edition, Ss.Od.
Ephesions, Third Edition, 8s. <*'.             The Pour Experiments in Church
Pastoral Epistles, Second Edition, 10». Gd.       and State ; and the Conflicts of Churches.
Philippians, Colossians, and Philemon,           By Lord Rorert Montagu, M.P. 8vo. 12s.

    Second Edition, 10s. Oil.                  Every-day Scripture Difficulties

Thessulonians, Second Edition, 7s. id.            explained and illustrated; Gospels of St.

Historical Lectures on the Life of Our           Matthew and St. Mark. By J. E. Prescott,
   Lord Jesus Christ: being the Hulsean
   Lectures for 1859. By the same Author.         M.A. late Fellow of C. C. Coll. Cantab.
   Third Edition. 8vo. lbs. 64
                                                   8vo. 9s.
The Destiny of the Creature ; and other
                                               The Pentateuch and Book of
   Sermons preached before the University of     Joshua Critically Examined. By J. XV.
   Cambridge. By the same. Post 8vo. 5s.       Colenso, D.D. Lord Bishop         of Natal.
                                                                                 a$ an His
The Broad and the Narrow "Way; Two             Part I. the Pentateuch. examined
   Sermons preached before the University of   torical Narrative. 8vo. 6s. Part II. the
   Cambridge. By the same. Crown 8vo. 2s.
                                               DsAidgeeeurteeadrn,odnoA7msu.tyh,Godr.8ssh.ipPaPoraftrttheIIIIVP.e.nttathhteeeucFBhiorosktCon1o1f

                                               Chapters of Genesis examined and separated,
                                               with Remarks on the Creation, the Fall, and

                                               the Deluge, 10s. 6oV

                                                                                 r
11 NEW WORKS published bt LONGMAN and CO.

The Life and Epistles of St.                          The Gentile and the Jew in the
   Paul. By W. J. Cosybkakk, M.A. late
   Fellow of Trin. Coll. Cantab. and J. S.               Courts of the Temple of Christ : ail Intro
                                                         duction to the History of Christianity.
   Howson, D.D. Principal of the Collegiate             From the German of Prof. Dollinobr, by
    Institution, Liverpool.                             the Rev. N.Darnell, M.A. 2 vols. 8vo. 21a.

     Library Edition, with all the Original           Physico-Prophetical Essays, on tho
                                                      Locality of the Eternal Inheritance, its
   Illustrations, Maps, Landscapes on Steel,
    Woodcuts, &c. 2 vols. 4to. 48».                   Nature and Character; the Resurrection

     Intermediate Edition, with a Selection           Body ; and the          Mutual  ReRve.coWgn. itLioinstero,f
                                                      Glorified Saints.       By the
   of Maps, Plates, and Woodcuts. 2 vols.
   square crown 8vo. 31s. Gd.                         F.G.S. Crown 8vo. 6».

     People's Edition, revised and con                Bishop Jeremy Taylor's Entire

   densed, with 46 Illustrations and Maps.              Works: With Life by Bishop Hebkr.
   2 vols. crown 8vo. 12s.                               Revised and corrected by the Rev. C. P.
                                                         Eden, 10 vols. 8vo. £o 5a.
The Voyage and Shipwreck of
  JSt. Paul ; with Dissertations on the Ships         Passing Thoughts on Religion.

   and Navigation of the Ancients. By amis               By the Author of ' Amy Herbert.' 8th Edi
   Smith, F.R.S. Crown 8vo. Charts, 8s. 6A               tion. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.

Hippolytus and hi8 Age ; or, the                      Thoughts for the Holy "Week, for
                                                        Young Persons. By the same Author.
   Beginnings and Prospects of Christianity.
   By Baron Bunsen, D.D. 2 vols. 8vo. 30s.               2d Edition. Fcp. 8v'o. 2s.

Outlines of the Philosophy of Uni                     Wight Lessons from Scripture. By the
                                                         same Author. 2d Edition. 32 mo. 3s.
   versal History, applied to Language and
   Religion: Containing an Account of the             Self-examination before Confirmation.
  Alphabetical Conferences. By the same                  By the same Author. 32mo. Is. 6d.
   Author. 2 vols. 8vo. 33s.

Analecta Ante-Wicsona.              By the same       Headings for a Month Preparatory to
   Author. 3 vols. 8vo. 42s.                             Confirmation from Writers of the Early and
                                                         English Church. By the same. Fcp. 4s.
Theologia Germanioa. Translated
    Susanna   Winkworth                               Headings for            Every Day     BinishLopenJet,recmomy
by  the Kev.  C. Kinosley        :   with  a Preface  pTialeydlofrro. m
by                                  and a  Letter by                           Writings of
                              ;                                          the

Baron Bun-sen. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.                                             By   the same. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.

Instructions in the Doctrine and                      Preparation for the Holy Communion ;
   Practice of Christianity, as an Introduction          the Devotions chiefly from the works of
   to Confirmation. By G. E. L. Cotton,                 Jeremy Taylor. By the same. 32mo. 3s.
   D.D. Lord Bishop of Calcutta. 18rao. 2s. Gd.
                                                      Morning Clouds.           Second Edition.

Essays on Religion and Litera                            Fcp. 8vo. 5s.

   ture. By Cardinal Wiseman, Dr. D. Rock,            The Afternoon of Life. By the same
   F. H. Laino, and other Writers. Edited
   by H. E. Manning, D.D. 8vo.                           Author, Second Edition. Fcp. 5s.

Essays and Reviews. By the Rev.                       Problems in Human Nature. By th«
  W. Temple, D.D. the Rev. R. Williams,
  B.D. the Rev. B. Powell, M.A. the Kev.                 same. Post 8vo. 5s.

   H. B. Wilson, B.D. C. W. Goodwin, M.A.             The Wife's Manual ; or, Prayers,
   the Rev. M. Pattison, B.D. and the Rev.               Thoughts, and Songs ou Several Occasions
  B.Jowett,M.A. 11th Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.             of a Matron's Life. By the Rev. W. Cal
                                                        vert, M.A. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6<t
Moshoim's Ecclesiastical History.
                                                      Spiritual Songs for the Sundays
   Murdoch. and Soames's Translation and
   Notes, re-edited by the Rev. W. Stubbs,            and    Holidays throughout the        Tear. By
   M.A. 3 vols. 8vo. 4o».                                                                   of Egham.
                                                      J. S.  B. Monsell, LL.D. Vicar
                                                      Third Edition. Fcp. 8vo.
                NEW WORKS published by LONGMAN and CO                                                            1*

Hymnologia Christiana ; or, Psalms                                Lyra Eucharistica ; Hymns and

   and Hymns selected and arranged in the                            Verses on the Holy Communion, Ancient
   order of the Christian Seasons. By B. H.                          and Modern ; with other Poems. Edited by
   Kennedy, D.D. Prebendary of Lichfield.                            the Rev. Orbv Shipley, M.A. Second
   Crown 8vo. 7s. 6rf.                                                Edition, revised and enlarged. Fcp. 8vo.

Lyra Domestica ; Christian Songs for                                                                           [ Just ready.
                        Translated from the
Domestic Edification.                                             Lyra Messianica ; Hymns and Verses or
Ptattay and Harp of    C. J. P. Spitta, and
from other sources, by Richard Massie.                                the Life of Christ, Ancient and Modern ;
First and Second Series, fcp. 4s. Gd. each.                          with other Poems. By the same Editor.
                                                                     Fcp. 8vo. Is. 6U
Lyra Sacra ; Hymns, Ancient and
                                                                  Lyra Mystica ; Hymns and Verses on Sacred
   Modern, Odes, and Fragments of Sacred
  Poetry. Edited by the Rev B. W. Savile,                             Subjects, Ancient and Modern. Forming a
   M.A. Fcp. 8vo. bs.                                                 companion-volume to the above, by the
                                                                     same Editor. Fcp. 8vo. [ Nearly ready.
Lyra Germaniea, translated from the
  German by Miss C. Wimkworth. First                              The Chorale Book for England ;

   Series, Hymns for tin Sundays and Chief                           a complete Hymn-Book in accordance with
   Festivals; Second Series, the Christian                            the Services and Festivals of the Church of
   Life. Fcp. 8vo. o». each Series.                                   England : the Hymns translated by Miss C.
                                                                     Winkworth ; the Tunes arranged by Prof.
Hymns from Lyra Germaniea, 18mo. Is.                                 W. S. Bennett and Otto Goldschktdt.
                                                                      Fcp. -1to. 10s. (id.

                                                                  Congregational Edition. Fop. l».6rf.

                       Travels, Voyages, fyc.

Eastern Europe andVWestern Asia.                                  The Capital of the Tycoon; a
                                                                             of a 3 Years'  Residence in Japan.
Political  anadndSyrSiao.cialBySkHeetcnhreys  on  TRilulsesyia.,  Narrative  Rutherford
Greece,                                                           By Sir                      Alcock, K.C.B.
                                              A.
                                                                  2 vols. 8vo. with numerous Illustrations, 42s.
With 6 Illustrations. Post 8vo. 10s. Gd. \

Explorations in South - west                                      Last Winter in Borne and other
                                                                  Italian Cities. By C. R. Weld, Author of
Afriia, from Walvisch Bay to Lake Ngami.                          ' The                        East,' &c         vol.
                                                                  post    Pyrenees, West and   of ' Stella,'  1  and
                                                                         8vo. with a Portrait
By Thomas Baines. 8vo. with Map and
                       \,I* October.
Illustrations.                                                    Engravings on Wood from Sketches by the

                                                                  Author.                   [/» the Autumn.

South American Sketches ; or, a                                   Autumn Bambles in North
                                                                     Africa, including Excursions in Algeria and
   Visit to Rio Janeiro, the Organ Mountains,                       Tunis. By John Okmsby, Author of the
   La Plata, and the Parana. By Thomas W.                            <Ascent of the Grivola,' in ' Peaks, Passes,
  Hinchliff, M.A F.R.G.S. Post 8vo. with                             and Glaciers.' With 9 Vignettes and 4 full-
   Illustrations, 12s. 6rf.                                          page Illustrations on Wood from Sketches
                                                                     by the Author. Post 8vo.
Explorations in Labrador. By
  Henry Y. Hind, M.A F.R.G.S. With                                The Dolomite Mountains. Excur

   Maps and Illustrations. 2 vols. 8vo. 32s.                         sions through Tyrol, Carinthia, Curniola, and

The Canadian Bed Biver and Assinni-                                 Friuli in 186L 1862, and 1863. By J.
  boine and Saskatchewan Exploring Ex                               Gilbert and G. C. Churchill, F.R.G.S.
   peditions. By the same Author. With
                                                                     With numerous Illustrations. Square crown
   Maps and Illustrations. 2 vols. 8vo. 42s.
                                                                    8vo. 2U
16 NEW WORKS published by LONGMAN and CO.

Peaks,Passes, and Glaciers ; a Series               Guide to the Pyrenees, for the use
                                                      of Mountaineers. By Charles Packe.
   of Excursions by Members of the Alpine
                                                       With Maps, &c. and a new Appendix.
  Club. Edited by J. Ball, M.K.I.A.                    Fcp. 6s.

   Fourth Edition; Haps, Illustrations, Wood        Guide to the Central Alps, in
  cuts. Square crown 8vo. 21s. -- Travellers'
   Edition, condensed, lCino. 5s. 6rf.

Second Series, edited by E. S. Kennedy,             cluding the Bernese Oberland, Eastern
  MA. F.R.G.S. With many Maps and
   Illustrations. 2 vols. square crown 8vo. 42s.    Switzerland, Loin hardy, and        Western Tyrol.
                                                                                        Post 8vo. with
Nineteen Maps of the Alpine Districts,              By John Ball, M.R.I.A.
   from the First and Second Series of Peaks,
                                                    Maps.                                                [/n June.
   Passes, and Glaciers. Price 7#. Grf.
                                                    Guide to the "Western Alps. By the
                                                      same Author. With an Article on the
                                                       Geology of tho Alps by M. E. D&sor. Post
                                                      8vo. with Maps, &c 7s. Gd.

Mountaineering in 1861 ; a Vaca                     A Week at the Land's End.
  tion Tour. By Prof. J. Tyndai.l, F.R.S.
                                                      By J. T. Blight; assisted by E. H. Rood,
   Square crown Svo. with 2 Views, 7s. Gd.            II. Q. Couch, and J. Ralfs. With Hap

A Summer Tour in the Grisons                           and 90 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo. 6s. Gd.

and    Italian   Valleys of the Bernina. By         Visits to Remarkable Places :
Mrs.             Fueshkield. With 2 Coloured
       Henry

Maps and 4 Views. Post 8vo. 10s. 6rf.               Old Halls, Battle-Fields, and Scenes illus

Alpine Byways ; or. Light Lea\ es gathered          trative  of Striking                BPyasWsaiguejsamin   English  .
   in 1859 and 1860. By the same Authoress.         History  and Poetry.                                    Howitt.
                                                    2 vols. square crown 8vo. with Wood En
   Post 8vo. with Illustrations, 10s. 6rf.
                                                    gravings, 25s.

A Lady's Tour Bound Monte Rosa;                     The Rural Life of England.

   including Visits to the Italian Valleys.            By the same Author. With Woodcuts by
   With Map and Illustrations. Post 8vo. 14s.          Bewick and Williams. Medium Svo. 12s. Gd.

                                       Works of Fiction.

Late Laurels : a Tale. By the Author                Tales and Stories by the Author

   of 'Wheat and Tares.' 2 vols. post 8vo. 15».        of ' Amy Herbert,' uniform Edition, each

Gryll Grange. By the Author of                      Story or Tale in a single volume.

   · Headlong Hall.' Post 8vo. 7s. Gd.              GAmeyrtrHuedrer,e2rst.,G2rsf.. Gd.  Katharine Ash ton,
                                                    Earl's Daughter,                    M3asr.g6raf.ret
A First Friendship. [Reprinted from                 Ex2pse. r6iref.nce or Life,         Lavnael,to6sn.      Perci-
                                                    Cl2esv. b6rf.Hall, 3s. Gd.
   Frastr's Magazine.'] Crown 8vo. 7s. 6rf.                                                                  Par
                                                    Ivors, 3s. 6rf.                       sonage, 4s. 6rf.
                                                                                        Ursula, 4s. 6rf.

Thalatta ; or, the Great Commoner : a               A Glimpse of the       'World. By the Author
                                                                             Fcp. 8vo. 7s. 6rf.
   Political Romance. Crown Svo. 9s.                   of ' Amy Herbert.'

Atherstone Priory. LBy N. Comtn.                    Essays on Fiction ; comprising Arti

   2 vols. poet 8vo.                                  cles on Sir W. Scott, Sir E. B. Lyttos,
                                                       Colonel Senior, Hr. Thackeray, and Mrs.
Ellice : a Talc. By the same. Post Svo. 9s. W.
                                                       Beecher Stowe. Reprinted chiefly from
The     Last     Jo. fW.thWeartOkrl,d     Squires.     the Edinburgh, Quarterly, and Westminster

   By  the Rev.                        B.D. Second     Reviews ; with large Additions. By
                                                       Nassau W. Senior. Post 8vo. 10s. Grf.
Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 4s. Gd.
                NEW WORKS purlished ry LONGMAN and CO.                                           17

The Gladiators :   a Tale of    Rome and              Tales from Greek Mythology.
  Judaa. By G. J.  Whyte
                                Melville.                By the Rev. G. W. Cox, M.A. late Scholar
                                                         of Trin. Coll. Oxon. Second Edition. Square
Crown 8vo. 5s.
                                                          lGmo. 3». Gd.
Digby Grand, an Autobiography.  By the
   same Author. 1 vol. 5».                            Tales of the Gods and Heroes. By the
                                                         same Author. Second Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.
Kate Coventry, an Autobiography. By the
                                                      Tales of Thebes and Argos. By the same
    same. 1 vol. 5s.                                     Author. Fcp. 8vo. is. Gd.

General Bounce, or the Lady and the Lo                The Warden : a Novel. By Anthony
   custs. By the same. 1 vol. 5s.                       Trollope, Crown 8vo. 3s. Gd.

Holmby House, a Tale of Old Northampton               Barchester Towers: a Soquel to 'The
                                                         Warden.' By the same Author. Crown
   shire. 1 vol. OS.
                                                          8 vo. os.
Good for Nothing, or All Down Hill. By

   the same. 1 vol. 6s.

The Queen's Maries, a Romance of Holy-                The Six Sisters of the Valleys:

    rood. 1 vol. Gs.                                    an Historical Romance. By W. Bramley-
                                                        Moore, M.A. Incum bent of Gerrard's Cross,
The Interpreter, a Tale of the War. By                  Bucks. With 14 Illustrations on Wood.
                                                         Crown 8vo. 5s.
    the same. 1 vol. 5s.

                   Poetry and the Drama.

Moore's Poetical Works, Cheapest                      Southey's Poetical Works, with

    Editions complete in 1 vol. including the            the Author's last Corrections and copyright
    Autobiographical Prefaces and Author's lasi         Additions. Library Edition, in 1 vol.
    Notes, which are still copyright. Crown              medium 8vo. with Portrait and Vignette,
    8vo. ruby type, with Portrait, 7s. Gd. or            H». or in 10 vols. fcp. 3». Gd. each.
    People's Edition, in larger type, 12». Cd.
                                                      Lays of Ancient Borne ; with Ivry
Moore's Poetical Works, as above, Library             and the Armada. By the Right        Lord
                                                      Macaulay. 16mo. 4s. Gd.       Hon.
    Edition, medium 8vo. with Portrait and
    Vignette, 21s. or in 10 vols. fcp. 3s. Gd. each.  Lord Macaulay '3 Lays of /ncient
                                                        Rome. With 90 Illustrations on Wood,
Tenniel's Edition of Moore's
                                                         Original and from the Antique, from
   Lalla Roohh, with 68 Wood Engravings                 Drawings by G. Scharf. Fcp. 4to. 21».
   from Original Drawings and other Illustra
   tions. Fcp. 4to. 21j.                              Poems. By Jean Ingelow. Sixth Edi

Moore's Lalla Bookh. 32mo. Plate, Is.                    tion. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.

   16mo. Vignette, 2». Cd. Square crown 8vo.          Poetical Works of Letitia Eliza
   with 13 Plates, 15».
                                                        beth Landon (L.E.L.) 2 vols. 16mo. 10».
Maclise's Edition of Moore's Irish
   Melodies, with 161 Steel Plates from Original      Playtime with the Poets : a Selec
   Drawings. Super-royal 8vo. 31s. 6rf.
                                                         tion of the best English Poetry for the use
Moore's Irish Melodies, 32mo. Portrait,
                                                        of Children. By a Ladt. Crown 8vo. 5s.
   Is. 16mo. Vignette, 2». Gd. Square crown
   8vo. with 13 Plates, 21».                          The Revolutionary Epick. By the
                                                        Rt. Hon. Benjamin Disraeli .Fcp. 8vo. 5s.
In NEW WORKS purlished ry LONGMAN and CO.

Bowdler's Family Shakspearo,                                   AnfromEnSgclhisilhlrr;Traangd eMddylle.;  M*ry Stuart,
                                                                                                         Do Belle Isle,
   cheaper Genuine Edition, complete in 1 vol.                 from A. Dumas,-- each a Play in
                                                               Frances Anne Kemrle. Post                 5 Acta, by
   large type, with 36 Woodcut Illustrations,                                                            8vo. 12».'

  price lit. or, with the name Illustrations,

   in 6 pocket vols. 5». each.

Rural Sports, $c.

Encyclopedia of Rural Sports ;                                 The Cricket Field ; or, the History
    a Complete Account, Historical, Practical,                 and the Science of  the Game of
   and Descriptive, of Hunting, Shooting,                                           Trin. Coll.          Cricket.  By
   Fishing, Racing, &c By D. P. Blaine.                        J. Pycroft, B.A.                          Oxon.     4th
   bWyitJhohabnovLeee60c0h)W. oo8dvcou.ts42(2s.0 from Designs
                                                               Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.
Col. Hawker's Instructions to
                                                               The Cricket Tutor ; a Treatise exclusively
   Young Sportsmen in all that relates to Guns                    Practical. By the same. 18mo. I».
   and Shooting. Revised by the Author's Son.
   Square crown 8vo. with Illustrations, 18».                  The Horse's Foot, and how to keep

Notes on Rifle Shooting. By Cap                                   it Sound. By W. Miles, Esq. 9th Edition,
                                                                  with Illustrations. Imp. 8vo. 12*. 6rf.
   tain Heaton, Adjutant of the Third Man
   chester RifleVolunteer Corps. Fcp.8vo. 2».6ri-              A Plain Treatise on Horse-shoeing. By

The Dead Shot.or Sportsman's Complete                             the same Author. Post 8vo. with Illustra
                                                                  tions, Is.
   Guide ; a Treatise on the Use of the Gun,
  Dog-breaking, Pigeon-shooting, &c. By                        General Remarks on Stables, and Ex
   Marrsman. Fcp. 8vo. with Plates, S».
                                                                 amples of Stable Fittings. By the same.
The Chase of the Wild Red Deer                                    Imp. 8vo. with 13 Plates, IS».

   in Devon and Somerset. By C. P. Collyns.                    The Horse : with a Treatise on Draught.
   With Hap and Illustrations. Square crown                      By William Youatt. New Edition, re

   8vo. 16».                                                      vised and enlarged. 8vo. with numerous
                                                                  Woodcuts, 10». 6<t
The Ply - Fisher's Entomology.
  Ry Alfred Ronalds. With coloured                             The Dog. By the same Author. Sto. with
                                                                  numerous Woodcuts, 6».
  Representations of the Natural and Artifi
   cial Insect. 6th Edition ; with 20 coloured                 The Dog in Health and Disease.
   Plates. 8vo. 14».
                                                                  By Stonehenoe. With 70 Wood En
Hand-book of Angling : Teaching                                   gravings. Square crown 8vo. 16s.

   Fly-fishing, Trolling, Bottom-fishing, Sal                  The Greyhound. By the same. With
   mon-fishing ; with the Natural History of                      many Illustrations. Square crown 8vo. 21».
   River Fish, and the best modes of Catching
   them. By Ephemera. Fcp. Woodcuts, 5s.                       The Ox ; his Diseases and their Treat

                                                               ment : with an Essay on Parturition in the

                                                               Cow. By J. R. Dorson, M.R.C.Y.S. Poet

                                                               8vo. with Illustrations.                  [Jusl rtadi/.
NEW WORKS purlished ry LONGMAN and CO.             19

Commerce, Navigation, and Mercantile Affairs.

The Law of Nations Considered                      A Nautical Dictionary, denning
                                                      the Technical Language relative to the
   as Independent Political Communities. By           Building and Equipment of Sailing Vessels
  Travres Twiss, D.C.L. Regius Professor             and Steamers, &c. By Arthur Young.
   of Civil Law in the University of Oxford.          Second Edition ; with Plates and 150 Wood
  2 vols. 8vo. 30». or separately, Part I. Peace,
   Us. Part II. War, 18».                             cuts. 8vo. 18».

A Dictionary, Practical, Theo                      A Manual for Naval Cadets. By
   retical, and Historical, of Commerce and
  Commercial Navigation. By J. R. M'Cul-             J. M'Nril Boyd, late Captain R.N. Third
   looh, Esq. 8vo. with Maps and Plans, 60s.
                                                      Edition ; with 240 Woodcuts, and 11 coloured
The Study of Steam and the                            Plates. Post 8vo. 12». Gd.

   Marine Engine, for Young Sea Officers. By          *,* Every Cadet in the Royal Navy is required
   8. M. Saxry, R.N. Post 8vo. with 87             by the Regulations of the Admiralty to have a
   Diagrams, 5s. Gd.                               copy of this work on his entry into the Navy.

Works of Utility and General Information.

Modern Cookery for Private                         Short Whist ; its Rise, Progress, and
                                                      Laws : with the Laws of Piquet, Cassino,
   Families, reduced to a System of Easy              Ecarte^ Cribbage, and Backgammon. By
   Practice in a Series of carefully-tested          Major A. Fcp. 8vo. 3s.

  Receipts. By Eliza Acton. Newly re               Hints on Etiquette and the
                                                      Usages of Society ; with a Glance at Bad
   vised and enlarged ; with 8 Plates, Figures,      Habits. Revised, with Additions, by a Ladt
   and 150 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8to. 7s. Gd.               of Ranr. Fcp. 8vo. 2s. Gd.

On Food and its Digestion ; an                     The Cabinet Lawyer ; a Popular
  Introduction to Dietetics. By W. Brinton,
                                                      Digest of the Laws of England, Civil and
   M.D. Physician to St. Thomas's Hospital,           Criminal. 19rA Edition, extended by the
   &c. With 48 Woodcuts. Post 8vo. 12».               Author ; including the Acts of the Sessions
                                                      1862 and 1863. Fcp. 8vo. 10». Gd.
Adulterations Detected ; or, Plain
                                                   The Philosophy of Health ; or, an
   instructions for the Discovery of Frauds in        Exposition of the Physiological and Sanitary
                                                      Conditions conducive to Human Longevity
  Food and Medicine. By A. H. Hassall,                and Happiness. By South wood Smith,
  M.D. Crown 8vo. with Woodcuts, lis. Gd.             M.D. Eleventh Edition, revised and en
                                                      larged ; with New Plates. 8vo. [ Just rearfy.
The Vine and its Fruit, in rela
                                                   Hints to Mothers on the Manage
   tion to the Production of Wine. By James
   L. Desman. Crown 8vo. Ss. Gd.                      ment of their Health during the Period of
                                                      Pregnancy and in the Lying-in Room. By
Wine, the Vine, and the Cellar.
                                                     T. Bull, M.D. Fcp. 8vo. 5».
  By Thomas G. Shaw. With 28 Illustra
   tions on Wood. 8vo. 16».                        The Maternal Management of Children
                                                      in Health and Disease. By the same
A Practical Treatise on Brewing ;
   with Formula? for Public Brewers, and In           Author. Fcp 8vo. 5».
  structions for Private Families. By W
  Blacr. 8vo. 10». Gd.
20 NEW WORKS published et LONGMAN and CO.

Notes on Hospitals. By Florence                 Thomson's Tables of Interest,
  Nightingale. Third Edition, enlarged;
                                                  at Three, Four, Four and a Half, and Five
   with 13 Plans. Post 4to. 18».                   per Cent , from One Pound to Ten Thousand

C. M. Willich's Popular Tables                     and from 1 to 365 Days. 12nio. 3s. t'n/.

   for Ascertaining the Value of Lifehold,      Maunder's Treasury of Know
   Leasehold, and Church Property, Renewal
   Fines, &c. ; the Public Funds; Annual           ledge and Library of Reference : comprising
   Average Price and Interest on Consols from      an English Dictionary and Grammar, a Uni
   1731 to 1861 ; Chemical, Geographical,         versal Gazetteer, a Classical Dictionary,
   Astronomical, Trigonometrical Tables, &c.      a Chronology, a Law Dictionary, a Synopsis
   Post 8vo. 10s.                                 of the Peerage, useful Tables, Sec. Fcp.

                                                   8vo. 10».

                       General and School Atlases

An Elementary Atlas of History                  School Atlas of Physical, Poli

   and Geography, from the commencement of         tical, and Commercial Geography, in 17
   the Christian Era to the Present Time, in       full-coloured Maps, accompanied by de
   16 coloured Maps, chronologically arranged,     scriptive Letterpress. Bv E. Hughes,
   with illustrative Memoirs. By the Rev.          F.R.A.S. Royal 8vo. 10s. Cd.

  J. S. Brewer, M.A. Royal 8vo. 12s. 6d.        Middle-Class Atlas of General

Bishop Butler's Atlas of Modern                    Geography, in a Series of 29 full-coloured
                                                   Maps, containing the most recent Terri
   Geography, in a Series of 33 full -coloured
   Maps, accompanied by a complete Alpha          torial Changes and Discoveries. By Walter
   betical Index. New Edition, corrected and
   enlarged. Royal 8vo. 10». 6d.                   M'Leod, F.R.G.S. 4to. 5s.

Bishop Butler's Atlas of Ancient                Physical Atlas of Great Britain

   Geography, in a Series of 24 full-coloured      and Ireland ; comprising 30 full-coloured
   Maps, accompanied by a complete Accen           Maps, with illustrative Letterpress, forming
   tuated Index. New Edition, corrected and        a concise Synopsis of British Physical Geo
   enlarged. Royal 8vo. 12s.
                                                  graphy. By Walter M'Leod, F.R.G.S.

                                                   Fcp. 4to. Is. td.

                       Periodical Publications.

The Edinburgh Review, or Cri                    Praser's Magazine for Town and

   tical Journal, published Quarterly in Janu      Country, published on the 1st of each
  ary. April, July, and October. 8vo. price        Month. 8vo. price 2s. Gd. each No.
   6s. each No.
                                                The Alpine Journal: a Record of
The Geological         Magazine, or                Mountain Adventure and Scientific Obser
                                                   vation. By Members of the Alpine Club.
   Monthly Journal of  Geology, edited by          Edited by H. B. George, M.A. Published
  T. Rui'ert Jones,                                Quarterly, May 31, Aug. 31, Nov. 30, Feb.
  Henry Woodward,      F.G.S. assisted by          28. 8vo. price 1s. 6d each No.
   1 f. Gd. each No.    F.G.S. 8vo. price
                                                   INDEX.

Acton's Modem Cookery                                                   19    Bunsrn's Philosophy of Universal History                  1*
                                                                              Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, illustrated by
Afternoon of Life                                                       1*                                                              **
                                                                                Brnnett                                                  4
Alcock's Residence in Japan                                             15    Burre's Vicissitudes of Families                          SO
                                                                              Butler's Atlas of Ancient Geography                       20
Alpine Guide (The)                                                      16                                                   ....
ApjohnJo'surMnaanl u(aTlheo)f the Metalloids                            30
                                                                              Modern Geography
                                                                         8

Araoo's Biographies of Scientific Men                                   1

         Popular Astronomy                                              7     Cabinet Lawyer                                            If

                Meteorological Essays              ...                  7     Calvert's Wife's Manual                                   14
                                                                        S     Cats and Farlir's Moral Emblems                           11
Arnold's Manual of English Literature.                                        Chorale Book for England                                  15
A rnott's Elements of Physics                                           8     Colenso (Bishop) on Pentateuch and Book
                                                                                                                                        1*
Atherstone Priory                                                       16       of Joshua                                              10
                                                                              Collyns on Stag-Hunting in Devon and                      10
AAtyrrinl'ssonTr'esasuPraypinoiafnBible Knowledge                        4                                                              14.
                                                                        13
                                                                                                                                          3-
Bacon's   Essays,  bbLyyetWEtelrhlsi,ast,beylSySpepdrddidnion,o..a.n.d   4       Somerset  Philosopher in Town and                      17
         Lifeand                                                         3    Commonplace                                               17
         Works,                                                                                                                         17
                                                                         *       Country                                                13.
                                                                         6
Heath                                                                    6    Companions of my Solitude                                   2
Bain on the Emotions and Will                                            6    Coninoton's Handbook of Chemical Ana
on the Senses and Intellect                                             IS
         on the Study of Character                                      16       lysis
Baines's Explorations iu S.W. Africa               ....                 16    Contanseau's Pocket French and English
                                                                        13
                                                                         8       Dictionary
                                                                        19                             Practical ditto
Ball's Guide to the Central Alps                                              Conyreare and Howson's Life and Epistles
                                                                         S
         Guide to the Western Alps                                      18       of St. Paul
Batldon's Rents and Tillages                                            16    Copland's Dictionary of Practical Medicine
                                                                        13
Brrlepsch's Life and Nature in the Alps. .                              13    Abridgment of ditto
                                                                        18    Cotton's Introduction to Confirmation
Blacr's Treatise on Brewing                                             19    Cox's Tales of the Great Persian War
Blaceley and Friedlander's German                                       17    Tales from Greek Mythology
                                                                              Tales of the Gods and Heroes
  and English Dictionary                                                  9
Blaine's Rural Sports                                                     7   CresyT'saleEsncoycfloTphieebdeias  and Argos
                                                                          7                                       of Civil Engineering
Blioht's Week at the Land's End                                           7   Crowe's History of France
Bourne's Catechism of the Steam Engine..                                20
Bowdler'sTreFaatmiseilyoSn hthaersSpteraamrr Engine. . ..               19    D'AunioNb's History of the Reformation in                  *
                                                                          8     the time of Calvin
Boyd's Manual for Naval Cadets                                            7                                                             18
                                                                         11   Dead Shot (The), by Marrsman                               8
BRAHleY-MooRK'sSixSistcrsofthe Valleys                                        Ds la Rive's Treatise on Electricity                      19-
Bra nde's Dictionary of Science, Literature,                            10    Denhan's Vine and its Fruit                                 2
Braandy'sAr(tC.) Education of the Feelings                               13   De Tocqurville's Democracy in America                       8.
                  Philosophy of Necessity                                13   Diaries of a Lady of Quality                              17
             (Mrs.) British Empire                                        3   Disraeli's Revolutionary Epick                              3-
BlBWeR'l Atlas of History and Geography                                  19   Dixon's Fasti Eboraccnn*                                  18
                                                                         19   Dorson on the Ox
Brixton on Food and Digestion                                            14   DGllinoer's Introduction to History of                    14
Bristow's Glossary of Mineralogy                                                                                                          7
Brodie's (Sir C. B.) Psychological Inquiries                               3     Christianity                                             1
                                                                         14   Dove's Law of Storms
                                Works                                         Doyle's Chronicle of England

Brown's Demonstrations of Microscopic
  Anatomy
Browne's Exposition  of the 39 Articles ....

         Pentateuch and Elohistic Psalms                                      Edinburgh Review (The)                                    30
Bucrle's History of Civilization                                              Eilice, a Tale                                            16
Bull's Hints to Mothers                                                                                                      ....       13.
                                                                              Ellicott's Broad and Narrow Way                           13
            Maternal Management of Children. .                                                                                          13
Bunsrn's Analecta Ante-Nictena                                                                      Commentary on Ephesians             13.
         Ancient Egypt                                                                           Destiny of the Creature
         Hippolytiis and his Age                                                                 Lectures on Life of Christ
L"_» NEW WORKS purlished ry LONGMAN and CO.

Lllicott's Commentaty on Galatians ....                              13     Howson's   Uulseta Lectures on St. Paul.. ..                              II
                                                                     13     Hughes's   (E.) Atlas of Physical, Political,
                                                    Pastoral Epist.  13                                                                               2*
                                            Philippians,&c.          I3     aud Commercial Geography
                                                                     14                                                                                7
                                                   Tbessalouians              tory     (W.) Geography of British His                                   7
                                                                     14                                                                                 3
Essays and Reviews                                                          Hullah's   ,-- Manual of Geography                                        15
Essays on Religion and Literature, edited by
                                                                                        History of Modern Music
  Mannino
Essays written in the Intervals of Business                                 Hymns from Lyra Germanica

Fairrairn's Application of Cast aud                                         Ingelow's Poems                                                           17

   Wrought Iron to Building;                                         12     Jameson's Legends of the Saints and Mar                                   II
                       Information for Engineers ..                  12        tyrs
                       Treatise on Mills fc Millwork                 12                       Legends of the Madonna                                  11
                                                                     1C                       Legends of the M-mastic Orders                          11
First Friendship                                                      7
                                                                      3     Jameson and Eastlare's History of Our                                     11
Fitz Roy's Weather Book                                              12                                                                                 9
Foiistrr's Life of Sir John Eliot                                    20        Lord
Fowler's Collieries and Colliers                                     16     Johns's Home Walks and Holiday Rambles                                    IS
                                                                     16     Johnson's Patentee's Manual                                               13
Eraser's Magazine                                                     6
                                                                      6                       Practical Draughtsman                                    7
FreShfield's Alpine Byways                                            1     Johnston's Gazetteer, or Geographical Dic                                  7
                      Tour iu the Orisons
                                                                               tionary
Friend" iu Council                                                          Jones's Christianity and Common Sense ..

From Matter to Spirit
Froude's History of England

Garratt's Marvels andMystcries of Instinct 9                             I

Geological Magazine                                              8, 90      Kalisch's  Commentary       on the Old Testa
GilnKRTaud Churchill's Dolomite Moun
                                                                            ment                                                                         5
                                                                                                                                                         5
   tains                                                             15  '                       Hebrew Grammar                                        18
Coodeve's Elements of Mechanism                                      11                                                                               15
                                                                            KKKeeirnmrnyreleda'nysd'sPSlHareyysnmCnEo'slogEinatoCmhorliosgtyiana        9
GoRle'sQucstionson Browne's Exposition                               13
   of the 39 Articles                                                10 I                                                                             It

Gray's Anatomy                                                                                                                                        17
Greene's Manual of Coelenterata
                 Manual of Protozoa                                  8      Lady's Tour round Monte Rosa                                              IS
                                                                     8      Landon's (L. E. L.) Poetical Works
Grove on Correlation of Physical Forces ..                           8      Late Laurels                                                                5
Gryll Grange                                                                Latham's Comparative Philology                                              5
                                                                     16     · English Dictionary
Gwilt's Encyclopaedia of Architecture ....                           11                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                        S
Handbook of Angling, by Ephemera                                     -- ......18       Handbook of the English Lan                                      C
                                                                      9I               Work on the English Language                                     2
Hartwio's Sea and its Living Wonders. ...                                   guage                                                                       4

                   Tropical World                                    9 Leisure Hours in Town                                                            4
Hassall's Adulterations Detected                                     19 Lewes's Biographical.History of Philosophy                                      4
                                                                     9 Lewis on the Astronomy of the Ancients ..                                       4
               British Freshwater Algr                                             on the Credibility of Early Roman                                    4
Hawrer's Instructions to Young Sports                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                                                                        4
men                                                                  18        History                                                                  4
HHeklaptso'sn'sSpNimoitsehs                                          18
                             on Hifle Shooting    ....                                     Dialogue on Government                                       4
                             Conquest in America                      2                  on Egyptological Method                                        4
Hehscii el's Essays from the Edinburgh and                                               Essays on Administration!                                     4
  Quarterly Reviews                                                   9                                                                                 5
                                                                      7     . Fables of Barrius                                                         5
                   Outlines of Astronomy                             10                  on Foreign Jurisdiction                                  in
                                                                     15                  on Irish Disturbances                                        1
HHirNwCiuttliporn'stheSoDuitsheaAsems eorifcaWnomSeknetches....      15
Hind's Canadian Exploring Expeditions .«                             15                    on Observation and Reasoning                               1
            Explorations in Labrador                                 19
Hints on Etiquette                                                    6I       Politics                                                               1!
--Holland's                                                           9I                 on Political Terms                                           1!
             Chapters on Mental Physiology                           11                                                                                !
             Essays on Scientific Subjects ..                                            , on the Romance Languages                                    I
                                                                            LiDDellandScoTt'aGreek-EnglishLexicon                                     1
             Medical Noles aud Reflections
                                                                                                            Abridged ditto

Holmes's System of Surgery          British                          10 Lister's Physico-Prophetical Essays
Hoorer and Waleer-Arnott's                                               | Lonoman's Lectureson the History of Eng
Flora                                                                9 land
Hooper's Medical Dictionary
Hohne's Introduction to the Scriptures.. . .                         11 i   Loudon'--s --Encyclopaedia  of Agriculture .. ..
                                                                     13 |                                  Cottage, Farm,
Uosryns'sCoTmaplepnadium of ditto
Howitt's History of the Supernatural ....                            13     and Villa Architecture--, Gardening ....
                                                                     12

             Rural Life of England                                   6 I Plants

             Visits to R<markable Places ... .                       16 Trees and Shrubs

                                                                     16 ] Lowndes's Engineer's Handbook
                     NEW WOKKS purlished et LONGMAN and CO.                                                                           23

Lyra Domestica                                            15       Moore's Poetical Works                                             17
       Eucharistica                                       15       Morell's Elements of Psychology                                     6
                                                    11, 15                                                                             6
         Germanics                                        15                          Mental Philosophy                               14
                                                          15       Morning Clouds                                                     12
         Messianica                                                                                                                   12
       Myslica                                            15       Morton's Handbook of Dairy Husbandry..                             12
                                                                                                        Farm Labour                   14
        Sacra
                                                                                    Prince Consort's Farms                             5
MacaulAy's (Lord) Essays                                       2   Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History
                     History of England                        1                                                                        2
                    Lays of Ancient Rome                      17   Muller's (Max) Lectures on the Science of                          10
                    Miscellaneous Writings                     6                                                                       2
                                                               5      Language
                    Speeches                                                         (K. O.) Literature of Ancient
                                                               5
                    Speeches on Parliamentary                  8      Greece
                                                              12
                                                                   Murchison on Continued Fevers
                                                              20   Mure's Language and Literature of Greece

   Reform                                                     20   New Testament illustrated with Wood En-
                                                              19
Macbrair's Africans at Home                                        grnvings from the Old Masters                                      11
Hacdouoall's Theory of War                                      7
McLbod's Middle-Class Atlas of General                         3
                                                                3  NNeigwhmtianno'saleA'psologNioatesproonVHitoaspSituaals              3
   Geography                                                   9                                                                      20
                  Physical Atlas of Great Britain             16
                                                                2  Odli no's Course of Practical Chemistry. ...                       10
   and Ireland                                                  1                                                                     10
McCulloch's Dictionary of Commerce                              4                 Manual of Chemistry                                 15
                                                                8  Ormsry's Rambles in Algeria and Tunis ..
                  Geographical Dictionary ....                  2  Owen's Comparative Anatomy and Physio                               8
Mabuibe's Life of Father Mathevr                                9
                                                              20      logy of Vertebrate Animals
                   Rome and its Rulers                          9
Malino's Indoor Gardener                                        7
Maps from Peaks, Passes, and Glaciers                           1
                                                              17   Pacr e's Guide to the Pyrenees                                     16
Marshall's History of Christian Missions                      17   Paget's Lectures on Surgical Pathology                             10
Massbt's History of England                                   17   Parree's (Theodore) Life, by Wriss
Maun dee's Biographical Treasury                              17                                                            ..          3
                                                              17                                                                      16
                    Geographical Treasury                     17   Peaks, Passes, and Glaciers, 2 Series                              11
                    Historical Treasury                       17                                                                      11
                    Scientific and Literary Treasury          17   Pereira's Elements of Materia Medlca....                           11
                                                                3                       Manual of Materia Medica                       8
                    Treasury of Knowledge                     13   PPehrirlliinpss's's                                                 8
             Treasury of Natural History                        7                       Tuscan   Sculpture                            12
Maury's   Physical Geography                        ..          2                        Guide  to Geology
                                                                2                                                                     12
MMartl'ysilClro'nsstiDtuigtbioynaGlraHnisdtory of England ..    3                     Introduction to Mineralogy. . ..                12
                                                              18   Pirsse's Art of Perfumery                                          17
                                                              18          Chemical, Natural, and Physical                             12
                    General Bounce                            18   Magic                                                              13
                                                                4                                                                     14
                    Gladiators                                  4         Laboratory of Chemical Wonders
                    Good for Nothing                            4  Playtime with the Poets                                              5
                    Holmby House                                4                                                                     18
                    Interpreter                                 4  Practical Mechanic's Journal                                       18
                                                                4  Prescott's Scripture Difficulties
                    Kate Coventry                             10                      in Human Nature
                                                              14   PPryocblreomfts's    Course of English
                    Queen's Maries                                                                                          ....
Mendelssohn's Letters                                         13                                            Reading
                                                                                        Cricket Field
Msnzies' Windsor Great Park                                   10                        Cricket Tutor
Merivale's (H.) Colonisation and Colonies                     17
                    (C.) Fall of the Roman Republic           17
                                         the Empire
Mrryon's             Romans under                              3   Recreations of a Country Parson, Second
          History of Medicine                                         Series                                                            6
Miles on Horse's Foot                                                                                                                   5
, on Horse Shoeing                                                 Riddle's DiamondLatin-English Dictionary                            9
                                                                   Rivers's Rose Amateur's Guide                                       6
Mill on Stables                                                    Rogees's Correspondence of Greyson                                  6
         on Liberty                                                                                                                    6
                                                                                  Eclipse of Faith                                     6
on Representative Government                                                      Defence of ditto                                     6
                                                                         , Essays from the Edinburgh Review                            6
Mill'sonDUistsielirttaatriioannsismand Discussions                                Fulleriana
       Political Economy                                                                                                               5
       System of Logic                                                               Reason and Faith                                 18
Millee's Elements of Chemistry                                     Rooet's Thesaurus of English Words and
MMoonnstaegllu's's  Spiritual ?ongs                                                                                                    5
                      Experiments    in  Chnrch     and               Phrases

MoStnattebomery on the Signs and Symptoms                          Ronalds's Fly-Fisher's Entomology
  of Pregnancy                                                     Rowton's Debater

Moore's Irish Melodies                                             Saxry'9 Study of Steam                                             19
               Lalla Rookh                                                                                                             7
                                                                          Weather System
, Memoirs, Journal, and Correspon                                  Scott's Handbook of                                                10
                                                                   Scroh on Volcanos            Volumetrical                Analysis
                                                                                                                                       8
dence                                                              Senior'! Biographical Sketches                                      4
-24 NEW WORKS pcbushkd by LONGMAN and CO.

Senior's Essays on Fiction.                          16   TTThoioldlmeds'tso'snC'syEcalso(tpJe.rr)ndTiaaEbuolrefospAenofaatIonnmdteyrWeasentsdterPnhyAssiioa  20
Skwlll's amy Herbert                                 16                                                                                                       15
                                                            logy and Bowman'b Anatomy and Phy
                Ancient History                       2                                                                                                       ,0
                                                             siology of Man
         CleveHall                                   16   Trollopb'b Barchester Towera                                                                        I°
         Earl's Daughter                             ·6   . Warden
         Experience of Life                          16                                                                                                        17
                                                     16   TTwynisds'asll'LsawLeocftNuraetaioonns Heat                                                          17
         Gertrude                                    16                                                                                                        19
         Glimpse of the World                                                Mountaineering in 1861
         History of the Early Church                  »                                                                                                          8
                                                     '·                                                                                                        16
         Ivors ...
           Katharine Ashton                          ]6
         -Laneton Parsonage                          1*

         Margaret Percival                           16   Ure's Dictionary of arts, Manufactures, and                                                         ,s
                                                             Mines
         Night Lessons from Scripture                1*
         Passing Thoughts on Religion                14

         Preparation for Communion                   14                                              of Zoology
                                                                                                     in English
         Readings for Confirmation                   1*   Van der Hoeybn's Handbook                                                                           8
         Readings for Lent                           '4   Vauohan's (R) Revolutions
                                                                                                                                                              
         Self-Examination        before  Confir      "    History    (R. A.) Hours with the Mystics                                                           7
         Stories and Tales
mation                                               16

         Thoughts for the Holy Week                  14   WabBuntOn's Life, by Watson                                                                         3

                Ursula                               16   Wartee's  I.ast of the Old Squires              Physic                                              16
Shaw's Work on Wine                                  '9   Watson's  Principles and Practice of                                                                10
Shedden's Elements of Logic
                                                      5   W atts's Dictionary of Chemistry                                                                     9
                                                          Webb's Celestial Objects for Common                                                                  '
Short Whist  (Amelia)         Life,  by Winr-        19                                                   Tele                                                I3
Sievekino's
WObtH                                                 3      scopes
Smith's  (Sodthwood) Philosophy of       Health      19
         (j.) Voyage and Shipwreck       of St.           Webster & WilrinSOn'sGreekTestament
                                                     '*   WWeelldli'ns gLtaosnt 'WsinLteifre,inbRyomEerialmoxt and 15
Paul                                                                                                                                                           3
         --(G.) Wesleyan Methodism                   a    Gleio                                                                                                3
                                                     3                                  by Gleio                                                               3
         (Sydney) Memoir and Letters'                6    Wesley's Life, by Sodthey
                       Miscellaneous Works ..             West on theDiseasea of Infancy             and  Child                                               ,0
                     Sketches of Moral Philo
sophy                Wit and Wisdom                  '       hood                                                                                              4

                                                     6    Whately's English Synonymes                                                                         *
                                                                                                                                                              *
South ey's (Doctor)                                  5               Logic                                                                                    *
                                                                                                                                                              *
                    Poetical  WoforMksill's Logic    17              Remains            '                                                                     s
Stebbino's Analysis           Life by Jraffrbson      5              Rhetoric                                                                                 3
Stephenson's (R.)                                                    History of the Inductive             Sci
                                                      3   Whewell's
and Pols                                                             Riddle's Latin-English               " *
Stephen's Essays in Ecclesiastical Bio                *      ences
                                                                                                          Dic
                                                          White and
                                                            tionary                                         ····
graphy       Lectures on the History of                                  (W.)           Recollections     of, by
                                                          Wilberforcb
                                                          Harford
France                                               2    Wiilich's Popular Tablea                                                                            2»

Stonehenoe on the Dog                                18   Wilson's Bryologia Britannica                                                                       9
                                                                                                                                                              8
             on the Greyhound                        18   Wood's Homes without                Hnnda
                                                          Woodward's Historical                 and
Stricrland's Queens of England                       1                                               Chronological

                                                          Encyclopaedia                                                                                       

Taylor's (Jeremy) Works, edited by Eden              14
                                                      9
Tennent's Ceylon                               ....   9   Yonor's English-Greek Lexicon                                                                        5
                   Natural H istory of Ceylon                       Abridged ditto                                                                             5
             Story of the Guns                       11                                                                                                       19
                                                     16   Youao's Nautical Dictionary
Thalatta                                             1*   Youatt on the Dog                                                                                   's
Theologia Germanica                                                                        '                                                                  ,s
                                                       a                  on the Horse
Thirlwall's History of Greece
                                                       4
Thom son's (Archbishop) Laws of Thought

             OTOttISWOODB AND CO., MIN-IE'. NKW-SIKM- S<JUi-.I, LOUDON
J».,.. · -tu.  .-*·--·-  *.'...-·..· -i »

