Life of James Ferguson, F.R.S., in a brief autobiographical account,
and further extended memoir. With numerous notes and illustrative
engravings. By E. Henderson.

Ferguson, James, 1710-1776.
Edinburgh A. Fullarton, 1867.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/wu.89097318141

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
<7
     LIFE

JAMES FERGUSON, F.R.S.,

                l' 7 <0 -in 7

                                                                    IN A BKIKlf

T" m --i\ y
11   "u ' "  "* » 1    1" 1 

This work is illustrated with One Hundred
and Fifteen Woodcuts, representing the vari
ous inventions of Ferguson, and other subjects
connected with his life and adventures.

..BY KV:(nH;KvN'iiDi.KMKiS..O,,«X, U.  J%0 I    '

                                                   /

iA. FULL A KTON  Co.,
KDINISURUH, LONDON, AND GLASGOW.

     1«(<7.
                LIFE

JAMES FERGUSON, F.R.S.,

                                              in \ tsniKf

    AUT0BI0UltAPHIVAL A (J U 01) ST

             -""- SoSjsag*

                       E X T E N D K 1) M K H 01 R.

                 WITH NUMEROUS SOTES ASH lUX'STKA IIYK KSCIUVINoS.

                      l$Y KV UKNDERSOX, I.L.I). '

iA. r'L'LLA I; TON  Co.,

KDINIiUKUH, LONDON', AND ULA3U0W.
                        KIHNUCuail :
ni.l.WtTOX AXl<M4i;NAII, 1MWNTKHSl,.fclTH V.'AI.K
                                                    TO

 S I K DAVID B R E W S T E R,

       K. II., d. C. L., L L. d., F. r. S., V.-P. R. S. E., tic.
               VICE-OUANCBLLOR AND PRINCIPAL OF

                  THK UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH,

         THIS MBMOIK IS RESPECTFULLY

                   Il>E I) I C A E 1)

      IN CONSIDERATION OF HIS FORMER SERVICES AS
EDITOR OF FERGUSON'S LECTURES, ASTRONOMY, ESSAYS,

                              AND OTHER WORKS ;
                  AS H ELL AS IN ADMIRATION OF
                  HIS OWN DISTINGUISHED LABOURS

                      IN THE FIELD OF SCIENCE.
               PREFACE.

In the summer of 1827 the Editor of this Memoir purchased,

at a book-stall in Edinburgh, a copy of Ferguson's " Select
Mechanical Exercises;" and at this distance of time is still
retained a vivid recollection of the pleasure experienced
in the perusal of the "Short Account of the Author" pre
fixed to the volume, and also of the disappointment felt at
its coming so abruptly to a close. Ferguson, in his prelimin
ary remarks, promises to give the reader " a faithful and cir
cumstantial detail of his whole proceedings from his first

obscure beginning to the present time," -- viz. from 1710 --the
year of his birth --till 1773, the year in which the "Account"
was written. It occupies 43 pages, 3C of which refer to the

details of his life in Scotland, while only 7 pages are devoted
to his life in England; the latter extending over a space of 30
years, of which next to nothing is there related.

   To supply, if possible, more ample information regarding
Ferguson, the writer began so early as the year 1829 to collect,
from all available sources, as opportunity offered, whatever
particulars could be found and were not generally known. In
an examination lately made, with a view to publication, of cor
respondence, memoranda and notes, these were found to form
a heterogeneous collection, comprising much interesting matter
little known, as well as certain particulars apparently of trivial
importance, but which, as these also indicated Ferguson's pur
suits at the time, have been retained.

   With respect to arrangement, it was seen that if the auto
biographical, or "Short Account of the Author," was to be

republished, a departure from the usual biographical method
 should be adopted: that the proper arrangement would then
v; PREFACK

be to reprint the " Short Account," and throw all the materials
at command into annalistic sections, which has this advantage,

-- it exhibits, in unbroken succession, year after year, the events
of his life, its far as these have been ascertained. In accordance
with this plan, the reader will find Ferguson's autobiographical

Memoir, illustrated with engravings and explanatory notes,
forms the first part of the work. This part begins with 1710,
and although written in 1773, may be said to terminate in
1748, as so little of himself is related in it subsequent to this

year.
    The second part, or " Extended Memoir," begins with 1743,

the year in which he went to London: here it was necessary to
go back a little way into his autobiography, to notice and sup

ply omitted incidents from that year till 1773, when his

 Memoir was concluded, in order that the autobiography and
the Extended Memoir should be duly connected. This portion,

commencing with 1743 and ending with 1776 -- the year of
Ferguson's death-- is chiefly compiled from his own works; --

the engravings and descriptions in which of his apparatus and
curious mechanical inventions are reproduced, explained, and

illustrated --from manuscript letters and philosophical papers

 and drawings extant; from his lately discovered Common Place
 Book; from reviews and notices of his publications and inven

tions; --found in the Records of the Royal .Society, and in the
 magazines and newspapers of the last century --and lastly, from
 materials collected by the Editor during a period of thirty-six

 years.
     The Editor's correspondents have been numerous; the names

 of many of them are given in the notes, and he avails himself
 of this opportunity to offer to such of each and to all as are still
 alive his grateful thanks. He now closes his labours, and will

 feel much gratified if the work receives the approbation of the

 public.

            Astral Villa,
       Muckhart, Avgiist, 1S67.

                      (Perthshire.)
                          CON T E N T S .

PART I. -- FERGUSON'S AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR, FROM "SELECT

  ........MECHANICAL EXERCISES, 1710 TO 1778.

1710. -- Ferguson's Preliminary remarks; Birth; Mistakes the locality of his
   nativity, Keith, and Core-of-Mayen, near Rothiemay; Parents, &c., Pp. 1-- 5

1716. --Home Education, acquires a little reading while listening to his father
   teaching his elder brother ; An old woman assists him to master the Shorter
Catechism,                                                                     6

1717. -- His father agreeably surprised to fmd that his son was able to read;

Three months at the Grammar School, Keith (1717--1719) ; Taste for

Mechanics; Odd Accident; Raising of the Roof of his Father's Cottage; Made
                                                                       7-- 10
Models of Levers, Pulleys, Wheel and Axle, &c., .             .

1719. -- Wrote an Account of the Lever, the Pulley, the Wheel and Axle, and

showed it to a gentleman, who told him that such matters had been long

known,          .            ..                            . . 10, 11

1720. -- In the Service of Alexander Middleton as Shepherd Boy ; Began to Study

the Motions of the Stars; Models of Mills, Spinning Wheels, &c. ; Lines on

Ferguson by Capel Lofft,  .  .                .     .            .  .  11

1724. -- In the Sen-ice of James Glashan; Takes the Apparent Relative Distances
.......of the Stars by means of a Thread and Beads, (in a field, lying on his back);
Glashan does Ferguson's flail-work, to allow him leisure in the daytime to

make correct copies of his star projections in the night,           . 12--15

1727. -- Interview with the Rev. John Gilchrist, Minister of Keith; Alexander
   Cantley and Sun-dial, John Skinner, Schoolmaster, and Thomas Grant, Esq.,
                                                                       15 -- 18
of Achoynaney,

1728. -- In  the Service of Squire Grant  at   Achoynaney; Cantley's Accomplish
   ments --  "God Almighty's Scholar;"        Cantley teaches Ferguson Decimal

Arithmetic, Algebra, and the Elements of Geometry,         .        . 18 20
V 111                            CONTENTS.

1730. -- Gordon's Geographical Grammar; Cantlcy loaves the Service of Squire
   Grant, shortly afterwards Ferguson also leaves and returns to his father's; At

   Home; Made u Terrestial Globe of Wood, and solved problems by Pp. 20, 21
                                                          a
                                                                              .
                                                                                        it,

                                                                                                          it
1731. -- In the Service of Tippling Miller, who left the whole charge of the
   mill to Ferguson, -- Nearly starved for want of victuals, -- Left his service, and
           a
                              a
went home in weak state,                                  . 21, 22

1732. -- In the Service of Dr. Young; Disabled through Hard Work -- Unkind

Treatment; At Home much emaciated and in low spirits; Cantley Sends Fer

guson Medicines with proper directions; Made Wooden Clock, the bell of

was the neck of broken bottle;                            Stranger on horse-back, by the road-side,
a
     ;

                              a
                                                       a

                                                       A
shows Ferguson the works of bis watch; Excellent Illustration of the Action of
                                                                . 22 -- 2-
Watch Mainspring; Made Wooden Watch,                      .  .

1733. -- At Durn; Sir .lames Dunbar, -- Globe, Clock, Maps, &c. Clock Cleaning,
                                                                ;
                                                                                                ;
&c. Globular Stones at Durn Gateway converted by Ferguson into Celestial
       a
.......and Terrestrial Globes; Ijuly Dipple; Drawing Patterns for Needle Work for
                                                                                                      26--34
Aprons, Gowns, &c.; Star-gazing; Familiar Idea of the Ecliptic and Paths of
the Planets; William Raird, Esq., of Auchmedden; Ferguson at Auchmedden

Library at Auchmedden and Harris' lexicon Technicum; Commences to take
Likenesses, --takes the Likeness of Squire Raird; Failure of an Attempt to
Kaise Little Fund of Money to Secure Instruction for Ferguson in the Art of
Painting,

1734. -- Lady Dipple takes Ferguson to Edinburgh, giving him bed and board
   gratis, -- Ferguson in Edinburgh; Unsuccessful among the Painters there; In

terview with the Rev. Robert Keith Adopts Rev. Mr. Keith's Advice, and com
                                 ;
                                                              .
                                                                                          a
                                                                                                   a
mences without instruction tn take likenesses; At Merchiston House; The

Right Honourable Ijidy Jane Douglas and the Marchioness of Douglas;

Eulogy on Lady .lane; Lady Dipple Ferguson's Ranker; Out of his Little
                                                             . 34-- 37
Savings Ferguson Sends Money to bis Father,

173". -- Violent Inclination to Study Anatomy and Physic; Leaves Edinburgh for

Home with the resolve of commencing Doctor, carrying with him large supply
of Medicine, Piasters, ke,, -- Unsuccessful, and takes again to the Drawing of
.......Likenesses.
                                                          . 37, 38

1739. -- At Inverness for eight months taking Likenesses; Ferguson Compares the

   Twelve Signs of the Ecliptic to the Twelve Hours on the Dial-plate of Watch,
   and the Hour and Minute Hands to the Suu and Moon Motions; Astronomical
   Rotula; Calculations to Find the Place of the Moon's Ascending Node; Astro

nomical Rotula,                                                                                       38--40

1740. -- Rev. Alexander Macbean compares Ferguson's Rotula with his Almanacs,

and finds correct; Professor Colin Maclaurin, University of Edinburgh, and
           it
                    ;
                                     a
                                                           .
                                                                          .
                                                                                                           it
the Rotula, &c. Made Now and Correct Drawing of the Rotula and sent

to Professor Maclaurin, who subscribes and procures subscribers to defray ex

penses of engraving the Rotula,                                 . 41, 42
                                  CONTENTS.

1741. -- Returns to Edinburgh to Superintend the Engraving of the Rotula;
   Orrery in the College greatly delights Ferguson, who shortly after made a
   Wooden Orrery which showed the Motions of the Sun, Earth, and Moon, 42, 43

1742. -- Professor Maclaurin gets Ferguson to Deliver a Lecture on the Wooden
   Orrery he had just made, to the Students attending his Class, . 43, 44

1743. -- Made a smaller Orrery with wheels of ivory; Left Edinburgh for Lon

don (May); Ferguson in Loudon; Sir Dudley Ryder purchases the small

........Orrery with ivory wheel-work; The Right Honourable Sir Stephen Poyntz;
Mathematical School ; Ferguson in a Dilemma; Takes again to Limning; Like

ness of Mrs. Ferguson; Death of the Right Hon. Sir Dudley Ryder,  44 -- -48

1744. --Trajectorium Lunare, which, along with its Projection, is Shown to

   the Members of the Royal Society at one of their Meetings; Mr. John
   Ellicott, Watchmaker, London, and the Trajectorium Lunare; Astronomical

Rotula,                                                           48--50

                                      " A Dissertation on the Phenomena of the

                                       Orrery; " Ferguson's note regarding his
.....1747. --Publisheda Treatise entitled
   Harvest Moon  and Four-wheeled

various published works,              . . . . 50, 51

1748. -- Commenced to Read Lectures on Astronomy and the Great Solar Eclipse
  (of July 14th, 1748); Afterwards, Ferguson made and procured apparatus for

   illustrating Lectures on Mechanics, Hydrostatics, Hydraulics, Pneumatics,
                                                                  51 -- 53
Electricity and Astronomy,

1753 -- 1756. -- Eclipsareon and Universal Dialling Cylinder (see pp. 179 -- 184,
   and pp. 325--330).

1773. -- Thirty years in London:  Universal respect for Ferguson; Royal Pension
   (see pp. 249--263).

         PART II.--EXTENDED MEMOIR, 1743 TO 1776.

1743. -- Leaves Edinburgh; Apparatus; Ferguson in London; Sir Stephen Poyntz;

Mathematical School; In a Dilemma; Takes again to Drawing Likenesses; Sir
                                                           . 55 -- 62
Dudley Ryder buys his Orrery with ivory wheelwork,      .

1744. -- Orrery, commenced to make a large wooden one; The Moon's Concave

.......path and Trajectorium Lunare; Trajectorium Lunare; Letter from Ferguson to62-- 70
the Rev. Dr. Birch ; The Season's Illustrator, .     .

1745. -- The Trajectorium Lunare; Martin Folkes, Esq., and the Royal Society;
   Mr. John Ellicott; The Moon's concave path as projected by the Trajectorium

   Lunare, published; Agnes Ferguson born; The large Wooden Orrery begun in
   1744, finished; The Orrery described ; The Moon's Rotation Discussion; Three-

Wheeled Orrery,                                                   70--96

1746.-- Projection of Great Solar Eclipse of July 14th, 1748, published; A Tract

entitled "The Use of a New Orrery," published; The Phenomena of Venus

Represented in an Orrery; The Four- Wheeled Orrery,        . 96, 107
X CONTENTS.

"A1747. -- The Improved Celestial Globe;  Dissertation upon the Phenomena of

....the Harvest Moon and Four- Wheeled Orrery," Published;          The Planetary
Globes Instrument; Astronomical Clock, .        .          .                107 -- 120

1748. --Simple Lunar Motion; Residence; Lectures on Great Solar Eclipse in
  July; The Great Solar Eclipse; Grove's "Answer to Ferguson's Essay on the
  Moon's Turning on Her Axis;" Remarks on the "Answer;" James (son of

Ferguson) born; The Crank Orrery,                                      120--130

1749. -- The Calculator; Resolves to Lecture on other departments of Science be
   sides Astronomy; The Tide-Dial ; Centrifugal Machine; Residenc e, 130 -- 139

1750. --The Mechanical Paradox; Letter from Ferguson to the Rev. Mr. Cooper

of Glass, On the Origin of the Mechanical Paradox; Simple Lunar Wheel-
                                                                       139 -- 153
work; The Comctarium; Death of Sir Stephen Poyutz,               .  .

1751. -- Perpetual rocket Almanack; Letter from Ferguson to Hugh Rose, Esq.,

of Geddes; Hygroscope; Grove's "Supplement to the Answer to Ferguson's
Essay," 4c., published; Remarks on "The Supplement;" Familiar Idea of
                                                                       154 -- 166
the Distances, 4c., of the Planets; Satellite machine,        .

17.52.--Ferguson, seemingly, applies for some vacant situation; Letter from

Martin Folke.s, Esq., to the Rev. Dr. Birch relative to Ferguson; Astronomi

cal Lectures, the Calendar, 4c; the Lunarium ; Rotulas; Lunar Tables and
"ALunar Node Tables; Geometrical Curds;   Calculus of the Lunar Eclipse "

(of 17th April 1753); Model of the Solar, Lunar, and Sidereal part of the

.............Astronomical Clock made in 1747; Note by Ferguson regarding the Model;
Murdoch (Ferguson's Second Son) born; The Trajectorium Lunare Machine
                                                                    . 166 -- 178
and Curve; Controversy regarding them Revived,          .

1753. -- At Norwich; Astronomical Lectures, and Publication of Brief Descrip
   tion of the Solar System, 4c.; Astronomical Rotula, Republished; The Eclip-

sareon,                                                                178--184

1754. -- Eelipsareon exhibited before the Royal Society; Royal Society publish
   an account of it in their Transactions; Residence; Collecting Materials for

..........his Astronomy,                                               184, 185

17.ri5. -- Ferguson invented and made a large wooden Orrery; The Mechanical

Paradox converted into an Orrery; Ferguson at Cambridge, Lectures; Rev.

Mr. Ludlam and Mr. E. Waring; Problem on Planetary Conjunctions and

Solution; Dr. John Ford of Bristol, his Solution; Theological pa|«rs, On

the Birth and Crucifixion of Christ.                                   185--213

1 7.ii6. -- Lectures, and correcting proof sheets of Astronomy; Death of Sir Dudley
   Ryder; Astronomy; The lleatson Likeness of Ferguson; Purchased an Air-
                                                                       213 -- 216
pump and Apparatus,

1757. -- Residence; Accident to Ferguson; Letter from Ferguson to Rev. Dr.
   Birch, referring to the Accident; Whirling Table and its Apparatus; Astro
   nomical Clock; Astronomy, 2d Edition, Published; New Astronomical In
   strument; Dispute Relative to the Year of the Birth and Death of Christ;
                                CONTENTS.                                                          xi

.....Note from Ferguson

"Astronomical Tables
           toamEidPitr,eceopf tsG;e"ntH. aMnadg-.mrilelfeforrrinGgrintodintgheCoDrnis,pu2te16;       MS.
                                                                                                   -- 224

1758. -- Letter from Ferguson to Kev. Alexander Irvine of Elgin; The Prince of
  Wales sends for Ferguson; "Ferguson's Clock; "MS. Astronomy; Death of
                                                                                                   225 --236
the Rev. Alexander Irvine,

1759. --John (Ferguson's third son) born; Pyrometer; A New "Astronomical
   Kotula," Published; On the Conjunctive Period of the Hour, Minute, and

........Seconds Hand of a Clock; Troy and Avoirdupois Weight                     Tables; On the
Name and Number of the Apocalyptic Beast; Mechanical                             Paradox Orrery;

Sun-dials, Models, &c. ; Dial on a Card,                   .                               236 -- 246

1760. -- In Memoriam; Lectures on Select Subjects, published; The Armillary
   Trigonomcter; On Colours; Colours changed and restored; On the Rainbow;

   Abandons the profession of Limner; Terms for Teaching the Use of the

Globes,                                                                                            246--251

1761.  --  Residence; Pamphlet    on the Transit of         Venus, published;                      A Problem;
   On      The Question of the  Conjunctive Period         of the Three Hands                      (of a Clock)
        "

Answered;" Lectures on          Astronomy                  in London   and  "PTrowviinlicgehst;;"  At Chelms
ford; Note from Ferguson        to Edit, of                Gent. Mag.   on                          Transit of

Venus; Ferguson's account of the Transit; Projection of the Transit; Lines

in reference to the Transit and Ferguson; Royal Pension; Multum in Parvo,
viz., -- "Land and Water on the Earth; Velocity of Light; Velocity of a

Cannon-ball ; Velocity of Sound ; Diameter and Circumference of the visible

part   Pohfilotshoephcicloaul dyProspkyo;sitioWnesigh; t"  of the Atmosphere;   Squaring the Circle,
and                                                        Electrical Machine,         . 251 -- 262

1762. -- Royal Pension to Ferguson; Planetarium; Astronomical Lectures at
  Derby, &e. ; Great Silk Mill at Derby, and Lines on ; On the Platonic Bodies ;
   letter from Lady Isabella Finch to Ferguson, . . . 263 -- 271

1763. -- Remarks; Ferguson Applies for the Vacant Situation of Clerk to the

Royal Society, and is rejected ; Paper on the Transit of Venus read before the

Royal Society , Applies to be Admitted a Fellow of the Royal Society ;

Letter from Ferguson to the Rev. Dr. Birch soliciting his interest in the

matter of his application; Admitted a Fellow of the Royal Society, and

.....excused the usual fee and annual payments; Ferguson versus Kennedy on his
Chronology; Astronomical Tables and Precepts; liemarkable Fish caught near

Bristol; Ferguson's eldest son, James, apprenticed to Mr. E. Nairnc, Optician,

London ; Analysis of a Course of Lectures, published at Bristol ; Domestic

Calamity ; Disappearance of     Agnes                      Ferguson (Ferguson's    only            Ecdliapusgeh, te"r)to;
Agnes Ferguson's History and    sad end                    ; Paper on the Great  Solar

happen on April 1st, 1764,"                                                                        271--286

1764. -- A New Crane, invented by Ferguson; Paper on the Great Solar Eclipse
   (of April 1st, 1764); Letter from Ferguson to Kev. Dr. Birch relative to the
   Eclipse; Ferguson at Liverpool; Lectures; Observes the Lunar and Solar
   Eclipse (in March and April 1764); Letter from Ferguson to Rev. Dr. Birch
   with an account of the Eclipse; Captain Hutchinson; Ferguson's Beads;

                                                                              6
XI 1 CONTENTS.

Astronomical Clock ; Earnshaw's Annual Train of Wheels ; Table of Pendulum
............Lengths; A Description of the Mechanical Paradox, published; New Py

rometer; Hydrostatic Machine; Curious Memoranda, viz., -- "On the Com
bination of Letters in the Alphabet ; On the Question of Four Weights

to weigh any number of pounds from 1 to 40, and the Cistern Question;"

Hydraulic Machine for Showing the Ebbing and Flowing of Wells; The Cause

of Reciprocating Springs, and Ebbing and Flowing Wells Explained; Hy
                                            Pp. 286 -- 312
grometer,

1765. -- On the Quantity and Weight of Water in Pumps; Table of Standard
   Weights of Money from A. d. 11)66 to A. i> 1765; Lunation Tables; Villette's

Burning Mirror and its results,                                        313--320

1766. -- New Orrery; Claudius Epigrammatic Lines on Archimedes's Sphere and

....Translations; Ferguson's Orrery in the University, London; Ferguson and his

Assistant Kenneth M'Culloch; On the Division of a Circle into any given
number of equal parts ; On the Acting Distances of Wheels ; Universal Dialling
Cylinder; Death of the Rev. Dr. Birch; Tables of Specific. Gravity and Force
of the Wind; On Pumps, and directions for pumpmakers; Model of Blakey's

Engine; Ferguson removes from Mortimer Street to Bolt Court, Fleet Street;
........On the Tides; Barometer Table,                                 320 --338

176". -- Bath and Bristol Lectures; Newspaper Advertisements; "Supplement to

   Lectures on Select Subjects in Mechanics," published; Ferguson at Liverpool

   and in Scotland; Interview with Mr. Thomas Reed, Watchmaker, Edinburgh,
   Dr. Buchan, and Dr. Lmd; "Tables and Tracts," published; Ferguson's

   Catalogue of Apparatus, and Terms for Reading Lectures: Astronomical

Clock,                                                                 338--349

1768. --The Young Gentleman and 1-ady's Astronomy, published; Electrical

.....Orrery; Death of Ferguson's publisher; Ferguson's second son, Murdoch, at

   Edinburgh University; Visits to the King at Kew; The Solar Spots, 349 -- 355

1769. -- 'Analysis of a Course of Lectures ' and Syllabus of a Course of Lectures,
   published; Transit of Venus; Letter from Ferguson to Mr. Hawys, London;
   Comet's Orbit Projection; Ferguson and Dr. Johnson; Imaginary Sale of
Busts; The Solar Spots,                                                355--359

.......1770. -- Lectures at Neweastle-on-Tyne; Dr. Hutton; On the Area of a Circle
   divided into any number of equal parts; Tidal Clock for London Bridge;
   Solar and Lunar Watch ; Tide Rotula ; ' An Introduction to Electricity,' pub
   lished ; Effects of Medical Electricity on Ferguson and his Wife ; Lecture on
   Electricity; Bridge Building ; Ferguson's Perpetual Motion ; Elected a Mem
   ber of the American Philosophical Society; New Terms for Course of Twelve
Lectures,                                                              359-- 377

.....1771. --Death of James Glashan ; Velocity of Falling Bodies, and on the Ap
parent and True Levels ; Astronomical Clock; Ferguson's note regarding it;

Division   of the Square ; Wheelwork for a  Watch to make Four         Beats in a
Second ;   "Guthrie's Geographical Grammar   ; " Curious Calculations    regarding

the New Assembly Room at Bath; Pyramidal Table Clock; Another Ancient
                                                                       377 -- 387
Clock ; Astronomical Clock,
                        CONTENTS.                                      xiii

1772. -- Plaidalli's Perpetual Motion; Maze or Labyrinth; Lectures in Derby

shire ; Success of Ferguson's Works ; Triscotion of the Angle ; Meridian Line ;
Ten Squares Increasing by Unity; "A
                                          Line Appearing of the Same   Length
although Viewed from Different Stations;  " Time Table for Regulating  Clocks
                                                           . Pp.887 --390
and Watches; Death of Ferguson's eldest son (James),

......1773. -- Projection of part of the Sphere; Blind Man's Clock ; Projection of the
   Great Lunar Eclipse (for 30th July, 1776) ; The Arithmetical Triangle ; The
   Angle Trisector; Questions and Answers Relative to the National Debt;
   Death of Mrs. Ferguson ; "Select Mechanical Lectures," published ; John Fer
   guson's youngest son at Marischal College, Aberdeen ; Syllabus of a Course of
Lectures, republished,                                            396 -- 404

1774. -- Cox's Perpetual Motion Clock ; Ferguson's Letter Regarding Cox's
   Clock; Lectures in London --at Rath and Bristol; Newspaper Advertise

  ments; "A Lecture on Eclipses, and the Darkness at the Crucifixion," pub

lished; Ferguson Presents Copies of his Works to the Public Library, Bristol ;

Analysis of a Course of Lectures (eighth edition), published ; Murdoch Fer

guson at Bury St. Edmunds, attempts to settle as Surgeon there, without

success; Machme for Finding the Weight of a Body in any Latitude ; The
                                                                  404 -- 415
One-wheeled Clock ; The Pulse Glass ; Analemma; Quadrants,

....1775. -- Astronomical liotula and Tract; Revival of the Kennedy Controversy ;
   Ferguson's Letters, fcc., to Kennedy; "Tho Art of Drawing in Perspec
   tive," published; Indisposition of Ferguson; Equation Rotula; Murdoch
   Ferguson qualified as Surgeon to a regiment; Letter from Ferguson to Rev.

   Mr. Cooper of Glass, extract from ; Unpublished Letter from Ferguson to
Kennedy; Ferguson's Household,                                    415 -- 444

...1776. -- Money Bequeathed to Ferguson; Table of the Equation of Time; The
   Northcot Likeness; Ferguson's (supposed) Last Letter extant; Common Place
   Book; Murdoch Ferguson Shipwrecked; Ferguson on his Death-bed; Last
   Moments and Death of Ferguson; Ferguson's Funeral; Order of Ferguson's
   Funeral; Inscription on Grave Stone; House, No. 4 Bolt Court, Fleet Street ;
Ferguson's Will,                            ..                    114-- 455

                                AlTK.NDlX.

Newspaper Obituary Notices; Posthumous Detractor and Defenders; Dr. IIoul-

ston, Capel Lofft, and Sir David Brewster, on Ferguson; Ferguson's Personal
Appearance; Likenesses of Ferguson, viz., --The Beatson ; TheCasboru; The

Northcot and Townseud Likenesses; Family of Ferguson's Parents; Ferguson's
Family; John Ferguson's Will; Sale of Ferguson's Effects; A Second James Fer-

gusson ; Ferguson's Limuings; Ferguson's Orreries; Orrery makers; Ferguson
Relics in Banff Museum, -- In the possession of tho Editor, &c. ; The Ferguson
                                                                  Prop. XLV'll.,
Prize; Successful Competitors for the Prize; Euclid, Book  , I.,

Two Simple Solutions of; Remarkable Fish caught near Bristol; Ferguson

Memorial Pillar; Ferguson Biographical Notices; Theological Paper on the
Creation of the World; Geometrical Card; Visits to Kew, &c        459 -- 48G
   ^gT Note. -- Those having letters, writings, drawings, machines,
or other relics of Ferguson, would much oblige the Editor by com
municating particulars, addressed to Astral Villa, Muohabt,

I'EltrilSIIlRK.
                   A SHOUT ACCOUNT

                                                       UK THK

            LIFE OF THK AUTHOR.

I1710. --"As this is probably the lust book shall ever publish,1

1 beg leave to prefix to it a short account of myself, aud of the

Imanlier first begau, and have since prosecuted my studies. --

For, as my setting out in life from a very low station, and in a
remote part of the island, has occasioned some false and indeed
very improbable particulars to be related of me,2 1 therefore
think it the better way, instead of contradicting them one by

one, to give a faithful and circumstantial detail of my whole
proceedings, from my first obscure beginning to the present

time ; 3 wherein if I should insert some particulars of little

1 The book here alluded to is his "Select Mechanical Exercises," pp. 272;
o1nAPce7estd7taryr6svo.pon:,eo"cmtL(LiCvooicoennapddliMooennsaR,,dooetf11u77Elaa77al5,3l"s.yt:--h,"LesoaHen&neddc,po.,unahb,oLslwohic1enea7edvt7toi,e5onrn,,:"s--Tli1ava"7ebrT7edl5he:ritne--ooeofp"utuThrLbehelpitesotEhseqsrDeusse"asTstiotichoonreni.ptth--ioAoefnrEtTRdiemaoivtfn.e.d)D, Jr"oUahswLenoinnogdKf oetnnhi,ne

   1 Many self-taught, and self-made men, in their latter days have been much
annoyed by the false reports and improbable particulars, which had been put
into circulation regarding them. To such annoyances and false reports, however,
biography is greatly indebted for many interesting memoirs, which, otherwise,
never would have been published. In the present instance, it is indebted for
"A short account of                                         atithctr:"--of which  llshort accounl" it has
been justly observed,  t"hethaliftetheorfe            the   few more iutereating  nurratives in any latt-
                                                       are

yuage"      (vide   Lib. Entg. Knowl.,                vol. i. p. 196).     fullil the  promise  he here
   3 It is   to be   r"egSrlwetrttedActchoaut nMt"r.    Ferguson did not                to his
                                                      of his life which   he prefixed           "Select
makes.        The
Mechanical Exercises" embraces 43 octavo pages nearly, -- 36 of which are de
voted to the details of his  early life, in Scotland,          from 1710          to 1743; (a period
of 33 years) -- whilst only  a small portion of the            remaining          7 pages have been
                                    details of his life in London, -- from 1743
made to     suffice  for recording   Had his life in England been written out                   to
            period   of 30 years!                                                               as
1773, --a
minutely as was his life in Scotland, an additional 3(i pages at least would
have been required for  it,
                                    a
                                             it a

                                                                             7
                             instead of portion of pages only. What had
made Ferguson alter his mind, and thus to have hurried over the details
of his life in London so very briefly, cannot now with certainty be known.

We may, however, throw out conjecture which may probably account for
the hiatus: -- Our memoranda make                              evident that he finished writing his

                                                            A
2 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

moment, I hope the good-natured reader will kindly excuse

me.

  I was born in the year 1710, a few miles from Keith, a little

village in Banffshire, in the North of Scotland,4 and can with

                         Ferguson's r.irth Place-- Core of Mayen.

"Select Mechanical Exercises," (to which he prefixed the short account of his
hfe) about the middle of August 1773 ; and that dining                      the time he was correct
ing its proof-sheets, he was slowly progressing with his                    memoir, -- that his wife,
who had long been unwell, became alarmingly ill whilst he was writing it, and
died on September 3d, 1773. This melancholy occurrence, taken in connection
with his publishers being in pressing want of the memoir in order to have the
work published, would naturally induce him to hurry over the latter half of his
life by recording a few                                                                    got the length of the
36th page of his memoir  incidents           only. Probably                 "hSeelheacdt  Mechanical Exercises,
                          when his           wife died. His
with a Short Account of the Life of the Author" was published about Sept.
l0th, 1773.
bo4rnFe"rgausfoenw
Keith parish,       has here mistaken the locality of his birth-place. He was                         not
                    miles from Keith,"                                      speaking, nor anywhere      in
                    but at a place called    ctohme p"arQatuivoeirl,y"      or Core of Mayen, nearly
                                                                                                        11
miles east of Keith, in the parish of Rothiemay, and about 2( miles NE of
Kothiemay village.    aoSnTfihrtaihJsreotihcwplneaerSiossinhhn,ac"llalthiTrep'hslaeRcSeetPvaa.tbihseDitysrico.hanSldoimAfdmcRociuooebu,ttnhwtiebhymoof aSenyvcoio,td"eteslnacnftrehdoma, tfvroo"tmhl.Jeaxmtipxwee.sno,
sources. We Hud in                                                           his publications on
p. 392, Edin. 1797,                                                         a foot-note he adds,
of the then minister

Pergtmm, well       kthnioswpnariasmh o"ng(RmotehniemofaSyc)i;encaend  for                        A" sTtrooncoemrtiyfy,
was a native of                                                         in
Ithis, it may be proper to subjoin, that my information of Mr. Ferguson's being a

native of this parish, received from his brother John Ferguson, who was an elder
of Diis parish, and who died very lately. He told me that his father s name was
John Ferguson, his mother's Klspet Lohhan; that they dwelt at the Core of Mayen;
that both he and his brother James were born there ; thcit he himself was born in
                                             mis two uears

                                             confirms this
                                             25th, 1710."
/1 708, and that his brother James
Record,   which is  now  bboerfnoreApmrei,l                            iynDofrou.nrmgSe.ar.tcioonncAlucidncoersedvibenrygy lsypa,ayrintthigce,.uSle"asrs;io--dno
James    Ferguson   was
not recollect every particular related in the Memoirs prefixed to his works, not hay
                                   LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                                                                                                                                   3

pleasure say, that my parents, though poor, were religious and
honest ; lived in good repute with all who knew them, and

died with good characters.5

ing seen thcm for several years; but John, his brother, who had read time memoirs,
said, thai though generally agreeable to fact, they were not equally correct in every
particular."
   Here we have evidence direct from two undoubted authorities,-- from John, the
elder brother, and from Rothiemuy Session Record, -- testifying that James Ferguson
mwKl2a5aeorstiih;tr"bh,, o;n"1r"no7t1haad0olst,uoogtu,hhabwnetdegCteohhnnreieoesretroaraheflltaymMvaaaaergyskhrueeinbser,saebebfperqleoraustrehitsnoenhtfroatroJceooftshn,iRd"nloeynwtahcatseiosesmut"hronaiefnoygh,mtiesuiBssqtafuaatnakhtfhelaflsyethrhhc'iesroies,rr,meb"carSatokcteoihfnsteelarwreenvJgedamra,myrildepoeinsasn'rsgAtfircpMoturhmeiel
locality of his birth, but also to several other inaccuracies in the original Memoir,
which will be found corrected in future notes. Thinking that itwould be well to have
a copy of Ferguson's birth as it stands in the Session Records of Rothiemay, we ad
dressed a note to the present minister of the parish, the Rev. Mr. Moir, soliciting him
to favour us with an extract. Mr. Moir not only complied w ith our request, but also
kindly furnished us with a great many very interesting particulars relating to Fer
guson, which will be found recorded in future notes. Rev. Mr. Moir, in his reply
          that "from
        the Records of                                        to the middle of the 18tk
Iobserves,                                                    am sorry to say, a mass of

century,
                           the time    of the Reformation
                                       of Rothiemay form,
                         the parish
loose leaves, the penmanship in which has become, in many instances, almost
I Iillegible, through the carelessness of those who had the charge of them. After a long
and somewhat tedious search have been fortunate in laying my hands on the leaf
containing the baptism   poefriJoadm. e"s--Fveirzg. uson  the Astronomer,  which      give below in
the orthography of the
                                        " Apryle 25. 1710."
        JJaLoonohhdbnnbascatnFolelenrdgeyuri.yJsao.Wmn:e--iellsiJa:ainm--mQebesWufooiLlirsroeorhinmwadietynrrea.sy:ss--roe.ns"J,obheJuamhisHesowrnHifeorEinnlsmpTeiltRldaLootwtbanbn:an--na,cEhbl:aizp--atibJzaeemdt,h:

Ifattannach is about fths of a mile NW of the Core of Mayen: -- Tilldown, or

Tillydown, about J of a mile to the NE of it.
We may here remark that Ferguson wrote his Memoir in 1773, when in the

64th year of his age, the 31st year of his residence in London, and at a period
of nearly 40 years after he had ceased being a resident in the home of his

parents. The greater part of this long period was chequered, and a struggle
with poverty, which, taken in connection with each other, inclines us to
conclude that such would have a tendency to obliterate, or render faint, in
the evening of his days, the impressions of the "mind-picture" of his early
years, thus making him mistake the place of his nativity. Be this as it
may, it is certain that Ferguson could never have the slightest tangible re
"acollection of the cot at the Core of Mayen, as his parents removed from it
in the year 1712 to some place now unknotTM, within                        few miles of Keith,"
"oat which period James would be an infant, and could
                                                                           not possibly remem
ber anything about it ; hence, we think there can be                       no doubt that it is
to this after residence of his parents,                   few miles from Keith," he refers
here as the        place of his birth.    It      would   u--ndpoeurhbatepdslythibse   the   home asso
ciated with       the earliest dawn of  his      memory,                              was   the very cot

he alludes to in connection with his 7th or 8th year, the roof of which becom
ing decayed he saw his father repair by raising it to its original position by
m" ewanosndoefr,  a lever and upright            the operation exciting in his young
                   astonishment, and      spar,     The after musings and experiments                                                                                                                                    mind
                                       terror."                                                                                                                                                                           rela

tive  to said incident, were his first starting points    as  an experimental         repsihdielonsceo,phe"r,a
and   the hases on which he reared his future fame        ;
few   miles from Keith," connected with, to him,              if so, this after
                                                          such a remarkable occurrence,
would   be certain       remain
of his  after-life.  to   this is  firmly fixed  on his mind during        all  the ups and downs
                                   the cottage    he had in view as        the  place of his birth,
                     If
                                          A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

   As my father had nothing to support a large family but his
daily labour, aud the profits arising from a few acres of land
which he rented, it was not to be expected that he could bestow

then, it becomes a question where was it                  situated                    ?   This  wcaas n"noat  now    be known
in consequence of tfie indefinite way he                  refers to                       ; it                few  miles from
                                                                                      it

Keith," he says, but does not mention in what direction from that village.
Tradition and conjecture arc now therefore the only guides, and
point to the following places, situated in nearly every direction                                             rthoueyndatKepirtehs,en--t

viz.

                    1st, To Forgieside, 3 miles N"W of Keith.
                    2d, To Aehorties, or Denhead, 1 mile S of ditto.

                    3d, To Drum, or tireenslades, 1,i mile E of ditto.
                    Mi, To Achaudacy (vicinity). 4 miles SEof ditto.
                    5th, To Cantly, about                             miles EN'E of ditto,
                                                          2.J
                                                                                                    :

                                                                                                          it
and even to Old Keith itself! But as Ferguson himself assures us that was "a
few miles" distant from Keith, therefore, the site must be sought in some direc
tion, between and miles of Keith.
ii
               itHad we been certain that Ferguson, when alluding to his father's residence in
his Memoir, had always in view one and the same col, we could have tixed the site
                    it 3

                                       5
with tolerable exactness, as we would then have entered his own Memoir, andis it it

himF1u9iiiasfg,ede.eMth1eat5mht3,edo,tishriAawtettahsecpoa"mgrwareaebessnol6puti,"otonn1tdssh2eavtmtoethnialtehmtsestitlodehfooiessdltlfoarcown"ocmttinlo"gswDefaruocsmborynn"daao"itnpifeo(uesnebwosvlfiecnmthhteerieloeegnasridevs;efmirdso"eimlnuaecsnsed!Ks--).e4iAotthtfhBlu.ytp"ht,aegAaesE2tad2tp,hrdlaegArooeetff

is no certainty that Ferguson refers in his Memoir to one and the same residence
of his parents, we cannot draw correct conclusions from these quotations; and we

  grct that the xitc must still be left in charge of tradition and conjecture. It
however, evident, from our memoranda on the pomt, that this cottage to which                                       s
Ferguson's father removed when he left the Core Mayen for Keith parish, stood                                                    is,
                                                                 3

                                                                         4 of
somewhere in one of the Cantlics, between and miles to the ENE of Keith.
   Kkitii. -- The Keith to which Ferguson here alludes
"  Old Keith," to distmguish from two modern Keiths                                       : is at the present day called

which have sprung up since the middle of last century                                         in--thveiz.im1mste, diNateewviKceinitithy,
                                          situated on a rising ground few hundred yards to the south
now Keith proper,
is                                                                              it
   a
                                                                                   a
                       ;
                         is
                                    a is
of Old Keith and 2d, Fife Keith, adjacent to on the west. As none of these

modern Keiths connected wth Ferguson's history, we pass them by, and con-
line our remarks to few observations on Old                                     Keith, as               in his youth.
                                                                                he designated it  was"  Ferguson Keith,"
                                                                                                        to its church, date
   Old Keith,      or what                may hen:    a--pparuopthreiantteilcy  records, relative
      village of  unknown                 antiquity,

as early as 1203. The village situated on the southern bank of the rivulet Isla
and in the centre of an amphitheatre of hills.                        In early times, the
village corresponded to the importance of its                         judicial authority.               mItag"nietnujdoeyedof  the
                                                                                                                               the
power or privilege of Pit and Gallows." Its court of Regality sat in the church.
Being built in an inconvenient situation, was gradually abandoned after 1750, in
favour of New Keith on the south, and                     is it
                                                                 now dwindled down into an insignifi
                                situated on the main road leading from Huntly, Rothiemav,
cant hamlet.
it
                     It

                         it is
and Grange, to Fochabers, Elgin, and Speyside.                                            In Ferguson's young days
      appears to have consisted of about (Hi clay -built and rubble cottages, with 300
inhabitants, who were employed in agricultural pursuits, in weaving, spinning,
                              The old church          of "Kesiotmh e  stood on the north side of the
Max -dressing, &c.               are associated                                                                     church
yard, and with      will find well detailed in                        thme em" oLreagbenleds    deeds of other
which the reader                                                                                      Strathisla,"   days,"
                                                                                          3                          a very

                                                                                                  of
entertaining little work by our friend Mr.                 Robert Sim, Keith. About                           7"   yards from
                                                          the church-yard, stood the                               old Gram
the west gable     of the old             church, and in  had "about months' instruction. The
mar School of     Keith," in              which Ferguson

old church and school were removed in 181 9. About 40 yards SW of the old gram
mar school stood the Manse of the Rev. Mr. Gilchrist, which Ferguson men
tions in his Memoir. The Manse has also been removed so at the present day
                                                                                                ;
                          MFK OF THK AUTHOR.

much on the education of his children, yet they were not ne

glected ; for at his leisure hours he taught them to read and

write :         And it was while he was teaching my elder brother
to read the Scotch Catechism that I acquired my reading.

there is no building standing connected with the subject of our memoir. Keith
is situated in lat. 57° 34' 48" N, and Ion;,'. 2° 55' 10" W, at a distance of 133 miles
NNE of Edinburgh, hv Humiy ; 40 miles NW of Aberdeen ; 20 SW of Banff;
12 SSW of C'ullen ; 17 ESE of Elgin ; 59 EN K of Inverness ; 8 SE of Fochabers ;
atnhdaCto10r"eNToWhfeMaoCfoyreeH.nuo:nft--Mlya.TyheenRaRisielvin.diMtshtrea.nccMeenostirraarloepf odRriftofieotrhneienomt.fatyh,e
                                                                                                                                   in a    note, informs us
                                                                                                                                   estate
                                                                                                                                           of Mayen. It is
a hollow surrounded by hills of considerable elevation on the north, icest, and south
sides, and open to the east, ft is so completely enclosed by hills that the crops in a
late season are in danger of not ripening. It is about a Quarter of a mile trroad,
and nearly three quarters of a mile in length. A BURN or rivulet fiou-s doum the
middle of the hollow, a nd forms the bou ndary between the parishes of Rothiemay
and Mamoch, so thai one half of the hollow, that on the north-cast, called Tillie-
doun, is in Marnoch, the other half, that on the south- west, is called tits Core, and
is in the parish of Rothiemay. In this portion stood the collage in which the. astro
nomer was born. About twelve years ago (1848) the ruins of the cottage were re
moved, and its site is now within a corn field. The well of the Ferguson family,
however,    is  still to be.seen, and a solitary tree  indicates the                                                               site of the  collage. The
<'ore lies  to  the north-east of Rothiemay parish     church, and                                                                 is distant
                                                                                                                                                from it fully
two miles, and is about eleven miles due east of Keith." We may here note, that
the site of the cottage in which Ferguson was born is within a few hundred
yards of the western boundary of Aberdeenshire ; hence, Banffshire was exceed
ingly near losing the honour of registering the astronomer as one of its illus
trious sons.

We annex a view of the cottage at the Core of Mayen in which he was
ilobennoveer1nl 8,ow0f7tiat,ohkuaernnthdenfortgthoermaso,tunpawdrnee--voiolodibmusesmprevtenoedtiaahtenthe.daetnciatniu"krseeFsrekeoremrgtucouhsvroganelo'nfsocfydbiaiftrtsotehrw-aptabhllaeloscu,ertetmh1ce7ooy8vl0"aw.lesorteofRotdenh,feeeaufrorrnliuyrnongodofnaetdoa

tions being a wnnt of stones to build a neighbouring dike. A stone pillar ought
to be erected on the site, to inform future generations, that on this spot stood a
cot, wherein the rustic astronomer was born.

  3 Death of Ferguson's Parents. -- We have made a great many inqui
ries respecting the date of death, the age at death, and place of interment of
Ferguson's parents, but without, we are sorry to say, any satisfactory result.
However, we find him in his Memoir, at page 27, referring to the period he
resided in Edinburgh, viz. 1734-1736; and              in                                                                          ttohehreisbysu"ccensost  in tak
ing likenesses there, he mentions, that he             was  alluding                                                                                        only to
                                                             enabled

put a good deal of money in his pocket, but also to spare what was sufficient
to help to supply my father and mother in tlvir fid age," Here we ascertain
that both parents were alive and in their old age in 1735; and it is evident, from
the opening lines of his Memoir, that they were both dead in 1773, when be

wrote it; hence, all we learn from him respecting this question is, that they
died somewhere between the years 1735 and 1773. On carefully going over our
notes on this point, we think that this interval can be very much narrowed. Our
notes make it a"ppear evident that the parents were born about the year 1670,
and died about 1741, in their 71st year; consequently, when Ferguson was in Edin
burgh, in 1735, his parents would then bc in their 65th year;--and when he left
Scotland for London,  in         --174th3u, st,hewyithwinoultdwobeyebaorst,h  dead. His
tleorge Wilson, died  in  May                                                                                                                   wife's      father,
                          1742,                                               1741 -1742,                                                       three       tender

cords were broken, and probably such sad events may have had considerable
weight with him when he determined to leave Scotland for London.' We. may
add, that the Rev. Mr. Annand,   Minister of Keith, in                        hissayrse, ply"                                                   our
respecting the. dates of deaths  of Ferguson's parents,                                                                                    to    is  inquiries
                                                                                                                                                     currently
                                                                                                                                           It
reported here that Mr. Ferguson's parents, in their latter days, left Keith for
(I A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

I17 1C. -- Ashamed to ask my father to instruct me,                                                                                                            used,

when he and my brother were abroad, to take the Catechism

and study the lesson which he was teaching my brother ; and

when any difficulty occurred, I went to a neighbouring old

woman, who gave me such help as enabled me to read toler

ably well before my father had thought of teaching me.'

Rothiemay, but               that the father  baef,tethrwatarhdsii  returned In  Keith and died there.                                                         The
in ference from             thin appears to                         mother had   died at Rothiemay and                                                         had

been buried there, and that his father had been buried in Keith churchyard." Dr.
of'brusiecrkvsehsa,nk"s,It  of Marischal College, Aberdeen, in            his      note to us on this matter,
                            is very probable that Rothiemay was           the      burial-place of the family,

and that his body was brought thilher from the. parish,                          fIonr  corpses are                                                    often  carried
much farther to be deposited beside those of relations.                                 those days                                                    there   were no

regular registering of deaths or funerals." Grave-stones appear to have been the
usual and only record of deaths at the period referred to. There are no memorial
stones of Ferguson's parents at Keith or Rothiemay; but, as before mentioned, as
fur as we can judge from the notes before us, the parents died between the years

1740 and end of 1741.

  8 It may appear singular to many that Ferguson should have felt ashamed to ask
his father to instruct him. We have always thought that the word ashamed is

                                 for expressing         a tender feeling  of bashfulness.    The                                                      o"ld     Scotch
                                 such a feeling         would have been    for him to have    said                                                              didna
Itoo strong a word

way of expressing
like til ask my faither la learn me." He would see his father in the evenings,
after a hard day's toil, sit             down on his chair and instruct                 his  tehledreerfobreroth"edr.id                                        He
would see the trouble his                father had as an instructor, and               he                                                                     not

like," or did not wish to throw any additional labour on his father's hands. Being
at this time in his 6th year, he would be left at home with his mother, and often

would    he peep into the old Catechism and endeavour                             to master  itthsalteshsoens".                                                 Diffi
culties  would arise before him, but when they did, he                           informs us                                                                   went to
a neighbouring old woman," who helped him over them, lint why did he go to the
old woman for help ? Why did he not a |'ply for assistance to his own mother who
was constantly by his side? Such questions cannot now be answered with cer
"tainty. We may, however, venture to remark, that either his mother was unable
to render him               any   wasosmisatann"cebyin   the way of self-tuition;  or, that  he                                                          went  to the
neighbouring                old                         stealth for aid, in order  to give   his                                                      parents  a sur

prise at being able to read without having been taught by them.

  ABCHe here alludes to the "Scotch Catechism" (sometimes called the "Single

Book "). It-was a duodecimo tract of a few pages only. One page had the
repeated in different sorts of letters, and a few letters thrown into mono
syllables, and then followed the questions and answers approved of by the Church

of Scotland, and which had to be committed to memory. It was a kind of

Primer in schools in the early                          efpaladtrheter robfraolnatdhstebrcr"eontchtoueurryld,wnhaoentndat"wattshheisysoltidirmeraeet  a penny.
                                                                                                                                                      abroad," i. e.
    He   also here          epeaks       othf ishis"
out in   the fields         ; but as                                                                                                                  be more than

8 years old, we cftnnot suppose that such a lucre child would then be set to any
out-door work, bitt that he merely went along with his father to bear him com

pany and wile away the time.
   His father appears to have been a superior man for his station in life. To
be able to write in his young days (about 1680), was an uncommon accomplish

ment, and perhaps not one in a thousand of his class could either write, or read

whTaht ewa"s   written.                  was named John.            Ho was born at the Core of Mayen,
              elder brother"
March 12th, 1708, and died in 1796, aged 88. He was consequently 2 years
older than James. The Rev. Mr. Moir, of Rothiemay, has kindly furnished us
with an extract of the birth of his "elder brother,"
                                   *                                             from Rothiemay                                                       Baptismal

Record.  " John Fergni-g
         and called
                                      p  in Quoir had a son          he his wife Elspet Lol'ban. baptized
                                         before witnesses           John Lob ban in Rettanach; -John
                            
                              J^J

                            I II
                                 MFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                               7

   1717. -- Some time after, he was agreeably surprised to find

me reading by myself; he thereupon gave me further instruc
tion, and also taught me to write; which, with about three

Imonths afterwards had at the grammar school at Keith, was
Iall the education ever received. 7

Old Grammar School, Keith.                                 (Built l(i'J5-- Removed 1819).

My taste for mechanics arose from an odd accident. When

about 7 or 8 years of age, a part of the roof of the house being

decayed, my father, desirous of mending                          applied prop and
                                 I

                                           it
                                                    if
                                                             it it,

                                                                                   a

                                                                                                               ;
lever to an upright spar to raise to its former situation and,

to my great astonishment, saw him, without considering the

reason, lift up the ponderous roof, as                           had been a small

iGneoKrgeett, aninacGhl;e--nnJaiemHeosuLsoeb:--baJnohynr.  Horn   in Tilliilown .--Isabel  Davidsone,
                                                           and   Jean Ferguisone."

This brother, John, resided at Kelashes at the time of his death in 1796, which
place lies about mile NW of the Core of Mayen, and was at the time one of
r
                             14
the elders of Rothiemay parish. He thus lived 20 years after the death of James.
     Grammar School              of Kkitu.-- The old Grammar school  of Keith, to                                 which
Ferguson here alludes,                                               " instruction                                (about
                                 and in which he had "about months'
                                 a
                                              it
                                                             it
                                                                       3

                                                                    it

                                                                                               a
                                                                                                        a

                                                                                          N
                                                                                                      E

                                                                                                                is
1718), was built in the year 1695, became ruinous about the year 1780, and was
then disused as school. Shortly after 1782 was repaired and used as the
a

       it

              a
session-house of the church. In 1819 was entirely removed, so that there
now not stone standmg to mark the site on which                  stood. We may note,
however, that stood in the NW corner of the old churchyard, at distance of
20 feet from the west gable' of the church, and about the same distance                                           of the

back wall of the present manse. The old grammar school was small building,
being only about 30 feet long, 16 feet broad, and 12 feet high. The view we give
of the old school taken from drawing sent to us from Keith.
is
8 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

weight.s I attributed this at first to a degree of strength that

excited ray terror as well as wonder ; but thinking further of the

matter, I recollected that he had applied his strength to that end

                                  Ferguson's Father raising the Roof of his Cottage.

of the lever which was furthest from the prop; and finding, on
inquiry, that this was the means whereby the seeming wonder

was effected, 1 began making levers (which I then .called bars);

    » The lever used on this occasion by Ferguson's father was evidently one o|
the "first kind." that
                                  a having the prop or fulcrum placed between the weight
                                                     is,

                                                                              a
                                                                           it,

                                                                                        a
and the power, but very much nearer to the weight. The velocity of each
point of such lever being directly as the distance of the point from the prop,
the power gained will be in proportion to the different lengths of the arm of
the lever on each side of the prop or fulcrum. We shall illustrate this rnnf-raisivg
case to our young readers by giving them short calculation relative to the pro
qbaubirleedwteoigrhaitseofit:th--e  cottage roof, and the length of lever which would he re
                                                                                                                    turf,
heather, and straw,                 1st, The   total weight of the roof, composed              as oof ntliymb"er,          "
                                    could not   exceed ton, (or 2240 lbs.) Rut                 it
                                                                                                  a                part
had to be lifted, the estimated weight of the lift would not probably exceed half
    ton, or say 1200 lbs. Some of our old notes regarding this roof make evident
aathat a large portion of the back part of near the top, had begun to sink, thrust
  ing the front part of the roof forward so as to overhang the front wall. In such

    case the ends of the several rafters resting on the back wall would have to he
secured so as to prevent them slipping out of their places during the operation of
hfting the front part. Let us therefore assume the weight to he 1200 lbs. the
lever 16 feet in length, and the prop                                                      foot distant from the weight. In1
                                  a                                                              ;
                                                   a
                                                       a                                            ,

                                                                            1
                                                                                            a
this case, we have the end of the long arm of the lever 15 feet from the prop,
and the short arm, a length of one foot only; hence, without taking into

account the weight of the lever itself, wTe have the power as 15 to                                                that
       by using such lever, man can lift 15 times more than by his unaided
  is,

strength. Suppose Ferguson's father exerted                                                    power of 160 lbs. at the
end of the long arm of such                    lever, then the power he would gain would he
                         LIt'K OF THF, AUTHOR.                                              9

and by applying weights to them different ways, I found the

power gained by my bar was just in proportion to the lengths

of the different parts of the bar on either side of the prop. I

then thought it was a great pity that, by means of this bar, a

Iweight could be raised but a very little way. On this soon

imagined that, by pulling round a wheel, the weight might be
raised to any height by tying a rope to the weight and winding

the rope round the axle of the wheel, and that the power gained
must be just as great as the wheel was broader than the axle

was thick, and found it to be exactly so, by hanging one weight

to a rope put round the wheel, and another to the rope that
coiled round the axle; so that, in these two machines, it appear
ed very plain that their advantage was as great as the space
gone through by the working power exceeded the space gone

through by the weight ; and this property I also thought must
take place in a wedge for cleaving wood, but then I happened

160x15=2400 lbs., that with such lever, instead of being able to lift theis,
                                         it
assumed 1200 Iks. of roof, he would have been able to have raised weight or loada
of roofing  of close upon 2400 lbs. had                         fraetqhueirrewdouhldenc"e,lifttheuplifttheofpo12n0d0erlobus.saa
would be           with                                   been          's :
            done   been  athsemaglrleawteesigthetase",          exerting only one half of his strength
roof as       had                                       -- the
if
                                                        as by
    it                        ;
       itat the power end of                  a                  roof of 1200 lbs. weight.
used by Ferguson's   the lever he would raise                   engraving we have bar        (The lever
                     father: -- In the annexed                                              or lever 16

feet long-- the prop at 15 feet from  the power;                 hence,       the power being assumed
at 160 lbs., will balance 2400 lbs.   on the top                of '* an      upright spar" as shown,
or 2400 lbs. hanging to the point at Hi -- the weight of lever and spar being
nothing). We here give fanciful drawing of Mr. F. father raising his cottage
                         a
                             it
                                                B
roof, in order to show how was done. Probably the lever used on this occa
sion was either timber plank or strong and straight limb taken from some tree.
            a
10 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THK

Inot to think of the screw.' By means of a turning-lathe which

my father had, and sometimes used, and a little knife, was
enabled to make wheels and other things necessary for my pur

pose.1"

                                                      Wheel ami Axle.

  I1719. -- then wrote a short account of these machines, and

sketched out figures of them with a pen, imagining it to be the
first treatise of the kind that ever was written ; but found my mis

take when I afterwards showed it to a gentleman, who told me

* Ferguson here explains the action of the wheel and axle question in language
           that it                       misunderstood ;  but as        of our
so simple  clearly  can scarcely be;3 it,    we will lay  before  some     an   ilyluosutnragtiorenader--s
may not               comprehend                                  them                 1
                                                                                          a
1st, In the wheel and in the axle an infinite number of lines must be supposed to              :
proceed from the centre to the circumference. These lines are called radii, in
short they represent levers, and are therefore perpetual levers. Suppose line
from the axis of the wheel to its circumference to measure 12 inches, and a line

from the centre of the axis to its circumference, inches, then we have two levers,
                                              3
                                                3

                                                       4;
                                                                       is,
                                                                           a
one of 12 inches, the other of             hence, 12 -^ = that                weight of lb. on
the circumference of the wheel will balance a weight of 4ibs, on the axle, as
shown in the engraving annexed.
    lo Ferguson's father appears to have had              taste for mechanics. We see
                                              a
                                                         a
                                                             ?
that he understood the philosophy of the lever, and no doubt, the other mechani
cal powers also. Hi re we find him in possession of turning-lathe.                     But what

had small crofter or daily labourer to do with a lathe Mr. F. merely says that
bis father 'sometimes used" it, but does not inform us whether be used in theit
        a                                                                              it

way of amusement or for profit. AVe are inclined to think that the father kept
for profit, in order to enable him to eke out his little income in support of the
family. In our 4th note, the reader will find that in the early part of last cen
tury, Keith and neighbourhood abounded with Spinning-wheels, Pirn-wheels,
lieels, and Looms, and for the frequent repairs of such articles turuing-latho
                                                          a
                                                                                    a
would be absolutely necessary, and thereby become source of profit.
                                                    LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                   11

I it)that these things were known long before, and showed me a

     Iprinted book in which they were treated of; and was much
     Ipleased when found that my account (so far as I have carried

          agreed with the principles of mechanics in the book he
     showed me. And from that time, my mind preserved a constant

     tendency to improve in that science.11

        1720. --But as my father could not afford to maintain me while
        was in pursuit of these matters, and was rather too young

     and weak for hard labour, he put me out to neighbour to keep
     sheep, which continued to do for some years vi and in that

     time began to study the stars in the night. In the day-time

        amused myself by making models of mills, spinning-wheels,
     and such other things as happened to see.13
                        I
                                                   I

                                                                                          a
                                                                                                               ;

          I

I

                        a

                                     I
     II Although Ferguson gives us an account of his lever, &c. experiments,
     and of his writing a treatise on them in two consecutive pages, as                  n                               all had
                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                            ,

                                                                                                            if
                                                                                                                           A
     happened within period of a few weeks or months, yet we must not understand
        so. We         arroeofinacnlidnetdhattoofthwinriktinthgathisthe"  interval of time between the raising of
it   the cottage

                                                                          Treatise" embraced                      period of at least

     two years. When the             wroroofteofthtehe"coTtrteaagetisew,"as               raised, Ferguson was        in his 7th  or
     8th year, and when he                                                               he would be about 10        years old.

     precocious boy at such an age would be able to write rude treatise as Mr. F.
     did, but we scarcely think that boy or years old could have done so from
     self-instruction.                              A
        !- Ferguson has                                                                            "neighbour" -- (Ins
     employer), to whom              not given us               athename                 of this   all our inquiries for  firstit
                                     he was sent to                         7keepsheep,  --and as                            in
                                                                                      8
     Banffshire had turned out unsuccessful, we had resolved to pass the matter over
     wAmitheoruictannopteubolircactoiomnm: e--nt".  Latterly, however, our attention was directed to an
                                                    Memoir of Mary L. W. Pichard, Boston, U.S., 1856."
     At page we find the name of                                                                                           His name
     was Alexander Middleton.                       Ferguson's             first master            inmefnutlilon--ed".   In January
     of                                              We give              tho extract                             :

     1802 Mr. Pichard was allied to Emfland on business, and took with him his wife9
     and Utile Mary, then but three months old. They remained there a year and a
     half visiting both his and her relations in different
     Pichard being connected, mi her mother's side, with                                 parts of the kingdom. Mrs.
                                                                                         leMinder Middleton, a Scotch
                                   by
                                                                                                 A

                                                                                                                  it
     fanner, in whosc family Ferguson the astronomer Hoed as a shepherd-buy, and
         whom, with his                                                                            still existing,
     drawn in pencil                 wife and three children, (lure are                            Besides being         likenesses
                                     that lad, so celebrated as a man."                                                  thus fur

     nished with the name of his first master, we also discover that Ferguson drew his
     likeness, and that of his wife and three children. Ferguson did not begin to take
     likenesses in his native county, Banffshire, until after his return to                                               from

     Edinburgh, in the end of the year 1736; and as he left Scotland for London in

     May 1743, these portraits of the Middleton family must have been taken between

     the years 1736 and 1743.
     III Our memoranda relative to this period of Ferguson's life make evident
                                                                                                   4
                                                                                                               'a
                                                                                                                           it

                                                                                                                                                ;
     that he was "put out" to keep Mr. Alexander Middleton sheep in 1720,
     when he was 10 years old, and continued in                           htihsatsehrevic"ebegyaenartso,           viz.  until 1724
                                                                                                                  study   the stars in
     and                             was between    these years
     the                             day-time, he   informs us,
          ncigohnts.e' quenIntlytheit                                        that tic "amused himself by making
                                             by
     models of mills and such other things                       that he  happened       t"o       see." At          this period there
     were,  a"nwdaasreprsaticllt,isesedveral         mills near  Keith,   and then                 spinning          on the spinning-
     wheel                                          females in
                                                                 almost   "even' house and cot, not                      only in and
     around Keith, but over all Scotland                            and                                                  would have
                                                                          as every spinning-wheel
                                                                 ;
                                                                                 is
                                                                                    a
                                                                                                           is
     its reel," no doubt reels would be among the models he fashioned with his whittle
     or knife on the bleak hill-sides. But there
                                                                                         model he reputed to have then
12 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

   1724. -- I then went to serve a considerable farmer in the
neighbourhood, whose name was James Ulashan. I found him

very kind and indulgent ; but he soon observed that in the

made, on      w"htihceh   he is silent,    viz. making a "horse-head clock." Our note                                                                                             on
                         story is well   known here," i. e. Banffshire.                                                                                                           in
this"  says,
              a ludicrous blunder          that the French astronomer, I.alande, makes,
       It is
sponking of Ferguson, when he designates him as ' Beryer au Iioi d'Anglcterre
rn Betas*,' i. e. the King of England s shepherd for Scotland. He had no claim
to this pompous title; but it is true that he spent some of his early years as a
fk1ae9r8em)p,eerrinionfBtsahhneefefspnh,eiirgethh, bo--ouug"rhhtohonadot twohifnenhtihsiennetahmteivpe\loyyhpmlaecoenr t1"2ot(hLfibty.heeaErnSttga.teh,Kisnboauwyte.,,  of a small
                                                                          if                                                                                              vol.    i.,
                                                                                 is of                                                                                   when em      it it p.

ployed in herdi us), he fitted up a clock within the skull of a horse, aml fastened
to a willow tree on the banks of the Isla, to let him know trhen to drive his sheep
and cattle home." We can scarcely credit this story; -- he connected with
at all, we should rather be inclined to think that he would use the horse skull as

a  sun-dial, for the oddity of the thing, having the stile in the fore-head and the

hours laid down round it.                tree, however, would perhaps have served the pur
                                  it
                                       A

                                                (a
pose much better by using the trunk of tree as stile, and having stones at
                                                      a                             would appear that Fer
                                                                       7a

                                                                         It

                                                                                   8
proper distances round to denote the several hours.
gubcelunoesdcnoeknrre"drlaewidtvaeisednwoootnf(evahitditome.fmnt"pohtte(evmidm3a.0ak).nninyogteT"h2fea).rllesoefcokraen,udnptirilmobpaatrbollbeyaasbttlheisposartrotriycyueolaafrsrs""atfhtewerhhitchohersep"-ehrheioaaddd
    The late        Capet Lofi't, Esq.,             has several    allusions          to Ferguson in his
"  Euddsia,                                                      (12mo, pp.
                   Or Poem on the                   Univkbsk"                         248). "Printed and
                         X

sold by It'. Richardson in the Strand,                and It'. Dilly in   tehxetrPaocutlstryf,romLon"doEnud1o7s8ie1i,;""
now out of print, and very scarce.
                                                        The following
relate to Ferguson's shepherd-boy period, &e,: --

              " Nor shall thy guidance not conduct our feet,

                   O  honoured shepherd of our later days!

                   Whom from the flocks, while thy untutor'd soul,                    (Rook I., v. 15.)
                   Mature in childhood, trae'd the starry course.

                   Astronomy, enamour'd, gently led
                   Through all the splendid labyrinths of Heaven,
                   And taught thee her stupendous laws, and clothed
                   In all the light of fair
                   Thy apt expression.       Hsiamilp!licyeityl.riends  of men:

                   Who, w hile ye lived on earth, ranged Heaven, and brought
                   The hours, the days, the year, to regulate
                   The   life of mortals."
                    in                         (Vide  " Eudosin, or a Poem on the Universe "
                                                       Book II., 32, lines 32 to 43.)
                         " Eur>osi.\, " Book
                                                      V., we have as follows (subject, Eclipses)
                                  :

                                               0

                                                                                 p.

                                                                                                          ;
-And
       again,
                          period --
referring     t"o  this   thee, Endvmion
                   Nor
                                             of our   later  age,
                   Sage shepherd of the northern Scotia's hill,
                                                          How blest,                  (125, Book V.)
                   Shall  grateful  memory forget.    muse indulge,
                          my verse   the favouring
                   If to
                   The happy clear expression which she gave
                                                    teach me to express,
                   Thy simple prose.                  Eclipsk,
                   Familiar, what the causes of       and their
                   Their difference, their limits,                      use, --

                   Since knowledge taught by thee, 0! Ferguson,
                   Seemed intuition to the learner's ear.
                   Thy parent Earth in infancy beheld

                   Thee with untutor'd genius on the stars

                   Intent; above thy years, and far beyond                            135.
                          LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                      13

evenings, when my work was over, I went into a field with a

blanket about me, lay down on my back, and stretched a thread

with small beads upon it at arm's length between my eye and
the stars, sliding the beads upon it till they hid such and such

           Thy humble lot; nor flowery mead, uor play,
           Nor sleep, beguil'd thee from the beauteous scene ;
           Nor poverty, nor health infirm, suppress'd
           The active vigour of thy mind; nor nil

           That lowering fortune interpos'd, eclips'd
           The piercing ray of thy superior soul,
           Heaven-taught pbilosonher! Thy wandering sheep
           Saw thee, with eye sublime, readmg the Heavens;
           Nor wanted they a guide -- the good old man,
           Whom gratefully thy modest page rewards:
                                                                         145.

           To thy fidelity and genius just
           Provided hours of leisure, that secure,
           Nor fearful for the charge --thy eager view
           Might range the f(iVrmidaeme"nEt.i"ulosia, or a Pimm on the Universe;"
                                        liook V., pp. 115-116, lines 123 to 149.)

oaEnudetNmhoooutrfnedho.sef,--r ' lteEMhtuertdse.odrssaiuaAtog,nhnuateserProeCeloaamfstibvtoheornentoeltah,theeeorUfCpnaaNipvreeeenwlrtssLe,o,H'ffostau,wyssae,Es,s<b"|Po.,MamkayeufintnahhtoahLrmeorno,,dfoMnn"er.aEorunCdao2Bp5seutiahlry,"LNooSfvtitn.,.
1752, and dial at Montcalicre, near Turin, in Italy, on '26th May 1824, in the
           of hit age.  My mother, A  nne Emblin, the pupil and
V2d year   Gentlkmen     and Ladies'   Astronomy,' wan Iwrn at     the Eudosia  of Fer
guson's '                                                           Windsor in  Febru

ary 1753, and became the first   wife of my father,    Capel Lofft, on 207A Aiujust
1778; she died on Sth September
                                 1801                  / was young when she died,

and do not recollect her mentioning Ferguson's name, except her showing me, just
before her fatal  illness, Ferguson's Moveable Planisphere, saying,      sioe would teach
me Astronomy,     as she had been taught by him. This Planisphere
Imy possession.   ha ve also a portrait    in                             I haee still in
                                          my   chalk of Ferguson,        by him to some
lady of title at Windior, whi left it to       grandfuthcr. . .    left  Ttie portrait is

Isome wluit faint, particularly about the mouth; can discover no initials or date,
Icither in the corners or on the back.    expect a visit from my half-sister, Laura
ICapel Lofft, the beginning of next month ; she was brought up in Italy, and is
quite an artist, and a most beautiful copyist.        will ask her to copy Ferguson's
portrait for you in the diminished size you with. .                The size of the original
portrait, not including the gilt frame, is 22 inches by 17. .      . My aunt, who
died about 22 years ago, has often told me tlutt my motltcr went as a pupil to stculy
Astronomy under Mr. Ferguson, Bolt Court, Fleet Street, Loiulon, when site was

HyyooeuuMrnthrga. radiCnneadnphteebltreaalts<uetteeoynf,ffsto,, raainnbAdosutthtrweohn1cao7np6m7pGy,eenaaodiskuitxool nkoitsfotheIenIhdIi.sstatu"iyesereEdduydowtouoisntichgaa,elhlriomshris.;tarerPSthoitaeeenfmdiwoawopsnacrrtethlnteoetns.f.UiWnn"iivnaedllrssoher;.r"
                          shheorstaysa,cco"unStomoef               condensed from the ori
(p. 222 to 225), gives a                               Ferguson,    tables, diagrams, and a
ginal memoir. At p. 225                               manuscript,
philosophical correspondence of this hcaven-taitffhl philosopher, are in my haiuis,

Iwhich were given by him to my Eudosia before our marriage; for he had no pupil

whose genius and disposition he more esteemed Hum hers; nor can reprove myself
for the pride which 1 often feel in reading over his letters to Mits Emblin, written
to her before our marriage." At page 224 of Eudosia, Mr. Loirt informs us, that
tsaMroorpsnlhe.otimctCeaairlcsabclooofrrrDnesFeiape,olrongignduuesneoacsnlel,u'sd,w"inagorsef latFthtoeeivrgtehcuaesutosone"'shmoifssaenhnuistsstyctnorliianpmhgt,einr gthmaibsolhettihs,peuordp,wiialnsgayrpEasou,medmso",sitala"uniEtdmuthdaehoyipsshicaiAalo.ns"
not now be found, being long lost."
14 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

stars from my eye, in order to take their apparent distances
from one another ; and then laying the thread down on a

Ipaper, marked the stars thereon by the beads, according to

their respective positions, having a candle by me.14 My master

at first laughed at me, but when I explained my meaning to
him, he encouraged me to go on ; and that I might make fair

" Considering that it would he interesting, if it could be ascertained, as to whether

or not Mr. Glashan lived to hear of Ferguson's success and renown, we resolved to
make inquiries to (dear up the point. The only way which appeared to be open for
us, at this distant period, was that in which we might get at the date of his death.
We accordingly addressed a note to the present minister of Keith, the Reverend Mr.
Annand, on the subject of the date of his death and age ; who, in reply, informs us
that he was interred in the church-yard of Keith, where there is a stone to his me
                                                  re9cthorJdasntuhaatry"Ja1m77e1s."  Glashan was born on
mlltohry,Daencdemthbaetr  the inscription on  it                                       These dates make clear
                            1686, and died    on
several little matters, which, without them, would have been unknown, viz. 1st,
It is evident that Mr. Glashan died at the advanced age of 84 ; 2d, That he was
in his 39th year in 172:5, when Ferguson (then I5) entered his service; and
3d, That he died only 5 years and 10 months before Ferguson ; consequently
he lived nearly through the whole of Ferguson's life-lime, and would there
fore hear of his many Astronomical, Mechanical, and other publications, and of
how  well they had been received and appreciated by the public.                      GeHoergewoIuIlId.,
and  no doubt would rejoice when he heard, that his Majesty,                                             hear,
                                                                                                           had

bestowed on  him a        pension of £50 a-year; and of his                          htahveingwobrleden--elnecatmedely,a
free member  of the       most celebrated scientific body in

Fellow of the Royal Society. By being so successful in bis writings, and by
having had so many distinguished marks of honour and respect conferred on him,
would gladden the heart of the kind James Glashan, and no doubt would often
bring to his mind the days of 1725, when his farm-laddie used to go out into
the adjacent fields and hill-slopes, in the cold clear winter evenings, swathed in
a blanket or faker, and armed with a lighted lantern, headed-thread, paper, and
pencil, to take the relative  bearings of the     s"tabruss;y  and of how he was     wont to sit
beside him in the old barn,   in the day-time,                 with his compasses,    ruler, and
pen." These and similar other little incidents would often be related by the good
old man to his friends, and he would contrast his early doings with the high posi
                                      LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                                    15

Icopies in the day-time of what had done in the night, he often

worked for me himself.                                1 shall always have a respect for the

memory of that man.15
1727. --One day he happened to send me with a message to
the Reverend Mr. John Gilchrist, minister at Keith, to whom I
Ihad been known from my childhood.
                                                                        carried my star-papers

tiou he had attained. An eminent writer says, " We pay tribute to thy memory,
James Glashan. Thy ntiprecedented kindness to the young rustic astronomer has
                                      it.
been universally admired ; shall never beforgotten future (fenerations will revere

thy name and applaud thy worth." (See note 17).
   We may here note that John Stuart, Esq. of Aucharnie, Aberdeenshire, Secre
                                                           ;

                                                                                  1
                                                                                         is

                                                                                                           ;
tary of the Spalding Club and Society of Antiquaries of Scotland,                                              the great-
grandson of Mr. James Glashan. He informs us that there are no letters or
memoranda extant regarding his great-grandfather, whose memory he holds in
the highest esteem.
   Mr. Glashan farm was called Akdneaduk, situated about mile to the SSW
                         's
                                ;
of Old Keith (at the foot of the Caird's-hill). The farm-house was demolished
about 35 years ago since then, the name Ardneadlie has become obsolete the

site being now known as Brae-head. It was therefore in the fields and hill-slopes

in the immediate vicinity of the present Brae-head, between the years 1725 and
17*29, that Ferguson, rustic youth, between 15 and 19 vears of age, first began
to measure the apparent relative distances of the stars, by means of thread anda

beads, as mentioned in the text.
   Regarding Ferguson's beaded-thread operation, we have always found dif
ficulty in the way when endeavouring to explain how he managed to slide the
beads on the thread into position, with any degree of accuracy.                                    a If

                                                                                                                 it

                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                           both his hands

were engaged in holding the thread on the stretch, as the text seems to imply,
he could scarcely have shifted them with his mouth, as by such process, could
Hot have been done with precision, and would have entailed on him considerable
trouble in bringing ever and anon the beads into line with the stars. Mr. Robert
Swihmic,hofweKeaitdho, pth,asvizs.ugtgheastted"       us the following  explanation of the operation,
                                                  to  Ferguson, when    he went into the fields in the
                                                 Mr.

evenings to take the apparent relative distances of the stars,                                             by  means of his

beaded-thread, would               likely carry       stick with him this he would thrust firmly
into the ground, -- the            ends of the
                            '                         thread would have loops for                  slipping over the
stick-top-- one of the loops having      '            been slid down little way                    on the said stick
                                              a                                                                              ;

                                                              aa

                                                                it '
                                                                           it

                                                                                               a;
he would then lie down on his back,' and put himself into position, all the
while holding the other loop in his hand at arm's length between his eye and the
stars he wished to take. By this method he could easily keep the thread and
''
        a is 'beads on the stretch, either in horizontal or angular direction, to meet the
position of those he wanted for his map, and as one of his hands would thus

always be disengaged, he would employ in shifting the beads                                                to their propel
                on the      thread, sliding them upon        till they hid such                            and such stars
places        his eye.'  "    We give fanciful drawing,                                                    the star-taking
                                                           in order to illustrate
from

process.
It somewhat remarkable that the celebrated Tycho Brahe, the Danish As
                                          1561, and when also in his loth or 16lh
"tronomer, about the year                 distances of the stars by a method of his own                              dyeeavri,sinagls,o"
                                                                        a common pair of compasses,
   took the apparent relative             a
                                                                                  a
                                                                                     by
                                                                                              ;
viz., he took the. apparent distances of the stars                                                             "untBilutthbeyy
the hinge of which he used to                    put to    his eye, while he opened the. legs
pointed to the two stars whose                   relative  position he wished to ascertain.

such method, two stars only could be taken at time whereas, by the beaded-
thr"eadMr.proGcleassshaonf                       great many could be taken
                            Ferguson,            24 years before Ferguson                          at one  operation.        pre
                            died about                                                             wrote   his Memoir,

fixe"d   to     his Select  Mechanical Exercises.          the first    Established                        Minister  of Keith
        The      Reverend   Mr. John Gilchrist was

after the subversion of Episcopacy. He was inducted Minister of Keith (the Rev.
Mr. Annand informs us)                    the year 1700, and died on 13th January 1754, aged
                                      in
1(J A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

to show them to him, and found him looking over a large parcel

Iof maps, which I surveyed with great pleasure, as they were the

first had ever seen. He then told me that the earth was
round like a ball, and explained the map of it to me. 1 re
quested him to lend me that map, to take a copy of it in the
evenings. He cheerfully consented to this, giving me at the
same time a pair of compasses, a ruler, pens, ink, and paper,
and dismissed me with an injunction not to neglect my mas

ter's business by copying the map, which I might keep as long
Ias pleased.

    For this pleasant employment my master gave me more time
thau I could reasonably expect, and often took the thrashing-

Iflail out of my hands, and worked himself, whilst sat by him

in the barn, busy with my compasses, ruler, and pen.17

about »2 years. Mr. Gilchrist appears to have taken an interest in young Fer
and no                  doubt he would           rejoice at all  times to hear of          his welfare  and suc
                         Ferguson was            comparatively     little known.            He had,     however,
In 1754
"Aguson,1,

cess.
spcubrilipshtieodn  an  AAsNtreownoOmrircearl y  "Rointu1la746an; dTCheardPatShunof  dial    in 1742;       de
                    ok                                                                     Lunar Orbit  by the
                                                                                      the

Trajectbrium Lunaric,             "17A4n6;    A Dissertation on the Phenomena              of the       Harvest-
moon, &c., 1747 ; and                                                                         1752.        Copies
                                            Idea of the MATERIAL UNIVERSe,"

of thess would no doubt be sent as presents to the minister of Keith, which
would be all be would live to see of the astronomer's works. He would, however,
bear that Ferguson bad made his debut as a lecturer on Astronomy in 1748, and
was appreciated as such by the public. The period of this interview with the
minister of Keith appears to have been in 1727, at which time Mr. Gilchrist
                                                  about 17.
wo"uldWebeh5a5veyeaalrresaodlyd,   and Ferguson   amiable James  Glashan                   in note  14, and in
                                  alluded to the

noticing him again      at this juncture, we cannot do belter than to                      quote        "thTehijsusist
tribute pitid to him    in pp. 199-200 of the Lib. F.ntg. Know!., Vol.                      I. :--
                        LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                                                            17

  When I had finished the copy, I asked leave to carry home
the map ; he told me I was at liberty to do so, and might stay

two hours to converse with the minister. On my way thither,

I happened to pass by the school at which I had been before,
Iand saw a genteel-looking man (whose name afterwards learnt
Iwas Gautley) painting a sun-dial on the wall.1s stopt a while

to observe him, and the schoolmaster came out and asked me
IIwhat parcel it was had under my arm.
                                                                                   showed him the
Imap, and the copy had made of wherewith he appeared to
                                                                    it,

                                                                               I
be very well pleased, and asked me whether should not like

to learn of Mr. Cantley to make sun-dials. Mr. Cantley looked

at the copy of the map and commended                                               much, telling the
                                                                    it
schoolmaster (Mr. John Skinner) that
meet with notice and encouragement.19                                 I it

                                                                                    a

                                                                                    I
                                                                       was a pity did not
                                                                          had good deal of

conversation with him, and found him to be quite affable and

communicative, which made me think should be extremely
                                                                    I

happy  iIf      could be further acquainted with him.

II beautiful we may welt say, and even a touching picture -- the (fowl man so gener
ously appreciating the u'orth of knowledge and genius, that, altlunigh master, he
voluntarily exchanges situations with his servant, and insists upon doing tine work
thai must be done himself, in order that the latter may give his more precious
talents to their more appropriate vocation. We know not that there on record an
It

      is
           a

                                                       it
                                                                               a

                                                                                                            is
                                                                                                                                    a
act"ofBhyomFaegregustoonsciemnceentaionndinlgearnthhautj  more honourable to the author."                                              ap
                                                          he "happened to pass by the school,"

pears to imply that in doing so, was accidental, not being in the road to the
manse from his master's farm of Ardneadlie. On examining an old and large
map of the district, we find our surmise seems to be correct. Had Ferguson gone
direct to the minister from Ardneadlie, distance of about jjths of mile from
Mr. Gilchrist's -- he would have had to pass his house before coming to the school.
therefore evident that he took another rood and went direct to Keith,
about mile to the NE, probably to show to his friends there, the copy he had
made of the minister's map before taking the original home. On leaving Keith
he would proceed westward, and would immediately reach the SE corner of the
kirkvard-wall, where he would descry Mr. Cantley painting the sun-dial on the
school wall, at distance of about 35 yards. To reach the school in the NW
       it

                     a
corner of the kirkyard, he would enter the gateway in the east wall, little above
the SE corner, and then proceed along the diagonal footway to the school. On       it
leaving he would go on by the south gate in the SW corner of the south wall
                                                                                            is
                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                      a
of the kirkyard, and from thence to the liev. Mr. Gilchrist's, 30 yards to the
west; then on to Ardneadlie, Mr. Gloshan's farm, three quarters of mile directly
south. Mr. Gilchrist's manse, now demolished, was situate about 36 yards to
the SWof the old Grammar-school, which, as already noticed, also removed. --

This note for the use of local readers; --that to which refers has often been
                is
                               a

                                                 is
matter of local discussion.                                         Keith, informs us, that "                                          iMn r1. 7J0o9h; n"
    '" The Reverend Mr. Annand, minister of                         and Session-Clerk of Keith

"Skinner entered  on his duties                    of Schoolmaster  but from a casual remark in the Ses
                  of his death                      not on record
that the date                                                     C
                                                                        ;
sion-book, made at      "meFertoinmg               of Session held  in April 1747  (he says), find that he
died in March 1747.                                another source                     3we learn thatMr. Skinner was about
                                                                                           ;

                                                                                                         I
68 years old when he died, and was interred at Keith hence, he was born about
                        was schoolmaster of Keith                   Ghrisam"marm-socnhthoso' l                     and would
the year 1679, and      of age when Ferguson had                                                "3t8uiyteioanrs,  under him.
bo about 39 years
18 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

  I then proceeded with the map to the Minister, and showed

him the copy of it. While we were conversing together, a
neighbouring gentleman, Thomas Grant, Esq. of Achoynaney,
happened to come in, and the Minister immediately introduced

me to him, showing him what I had done. He expressed great

satisfaction --asked me some questions about the construction

of maps, and told me, that if I would go and live at his house,

he would order his butler, Alexander Cantley, to give me a great

Ideal of instruction.50 Finding that this Cantley was the man

whom I had seen painting the sun-dial, and of whom had

Ialready conceived a very high opinion, told Squire Grant that

I should rejoice to be at his house as soon as the time was ex
pired for which I was engaged with my present master. He
very politely offered to put one in my place, but this I declined.21

   1728. --When the term of my servitude was out I left my good
master, and went to the gentleman's house,22 where I quickly

From this it would appear, on this occasion, Mr. Grant and his butler,

Alex. Cantley, were accidentally iu Keith, the former at the manse, the latter at
the school, within a few yards of euch other. This was a great day for young
Ferguson, having had encouraging interviews with his friend Mr. Skinner, the
extraordinary Cantley, the worthy Squire Grant, and the kind Mr. Gilchrist.

   21 There were no registers of deaths kept in Scotland until late in last century;

hence, there is no written record to show when Mr. Grant died, and there is no
grave-stone in Keith (or in any of the neighbouring churchyards) to his memory;
probably his remains were not interred in the district. We have made a great
many inquiries regarding him, but without leading to any successful result. In
balancing our memoranda, however, we are inclined to conclude that Mr. Grant

was born about the year 1673, and died about 1748, in the 75th year of his age;
consequently, he would be about 55 years old in 1728, the date of this interview

with young Ferguson. Having died about 1748, he did not live to hear of

Ferguson's future celebrity. The Rev. Mr. Auuaud, minister of Keith, has
kindly sent  us the                          extract of Mr. Grant's
his Session  Records:        f--ollowing                             contract  of marriage,  from
                                             KMK March 1st, 1710.
                                          "

The much honoured Thomas Grant,              oof fAKchinomyniannilipc,.  and Mistress Jean
Sutherland, {grandehild to the Laird                                     declared their pur
pose of marriage, and beimj contracted and onierty proclaimed, were
married Aprile Dte twelfth 1710. Tiny had three sons and a daughter,
viz. Archibald, born 5 Dec. 1711; Alexander, 3 Nov. 1712; Isabel, 15
June 1714; and Waller, IS/A Feb. 1716."

's Acuwv'NANKlE. -- This place has had several spellings. In the Keith
Register of Mr. Grant's marriage it is spelt Acluyynnnie ; Ferguson writes it down
ljAchoynaney, and now the name is generally written AchwiInannic.              It is situ
ated about mile to the ESE of Old Keith, at the foot of the Balloeh-hill. Mr.
Robert Sim, of Keith, has kindly sent us a fine pen and ink drawing of the old

/house, of which we annex
det"ailOsldremgaarndsiniogn  it :--  of  a woodcut. He also has obliged  us with the  following
                                         Achwynannie. -- herewith send   you a view   of the old
                             lumse                                                    lost much
house of Achwynannie as it is at present, taken from the south. It has
of its original appearance by modern innovations, the old windows having been
built up, and larger ones struct out, while it has been repeatedly coaled over with

lime, whereby the base of the turret on Die south-tccst corner is m uch obscured; the
door and windows are, of course, modern.     This is understood to be a very old
                                 LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                     19

found myself with a most humane good family. Mr. Cantley, the
butler, soon became my friend, and continued so till his death.

IHe was the most extraordinary man that ever was acquainted

                    House of Achwynanaie, from the South, 1861.

with, or perl taps ever shall see, for he was a complete master of
arithmetic, a good mathematician, a master of music on every
known instrument except the harp, understood Latin, French,

and Greek, let blood extremely well, and could even prescribe

as a physician upon any urgent occasion. He was what is

generally called " self-taught" but I think he might with much
greater propriety have been termed God Almighty's scholar."

building.  fThe oldest date have fomvl and attempted to decipher is on a stone
originally in the building, but now seen in the wall of the square of offices. It
Ibears two shield*; on the dexter one, three lions\ or boars' heads, with the letters
I. 0. (I. Gordon).  was a ware from local tradition that about 1667 it was in the
possession of one of that mime. On the sinister one, three holly-leaves in chief, and
aibaehll2ou3nbngesMtainrrt.igongAthhsleeooxrnEaf naBidrnu!errnboeafCstSeta,enatwolfefiictyhlL.de.--tyh"seR(elAegbttaeerrrdsdineEeg.nsBthh.irise(£),'r.emBdauatrrenk,aebtt1l)e6,90mt.haenseTwbheeeinphgraovtpeheermtayramdneoorwa
great many inquiries, but with no success. William Cantlie, Esq. of Keithmore
(Achendown), a descendant of the illustrious Cantley, writes us, that he has no
memoranda of him; that he had seen several parties, and written to others in
quiring for information for us,          but without any    re"saults.tar  We greatly     regret this,
terguson in his  "Mesemt otoiro          in Mr. Cantley as                 of the first  magnitude,"
but makes him                    brings
                                 soon.   We would have wished to have known something

more about a man so remarkable. Singular it is, that there does not now exist
the slightest incident on record, or by tradition, regarding his after life. Had

Ferguson written no Memoir of himself, the accomplished Cantley would perhaps
'20 A SHORT ACCOUNT UF THE

   1730. -- He immediately began to teach me decimal arith
metic and algebra, for I had already learnt vulgar arithmetic

at my leisure hours, from books. He then proceeded to teach

me    the  I  elements of geometry; but to my inexpressible                                                                                          grief,
      as      was beginning that branch of science, he left Mr.                                                                                    Grant,
just

and went to the late Earl of Fife's, at several mjles' distance.24

The good family I was then with could not prevail with me to
stay after he was gone, so I left them and went to my father's.

   He had made me a present of Gordon's Geographical Gram

mar, which at that time was to me a great treasure." There

never have been heard of; -- excepting to a very few, he would have                                                                 "flourished
unknown to fame."
                 "
                      Full  many   a flower is born to                                            blush               uanisre.e"n,
                            waste  its sweetness on the                                           desert
                      A nd

   The  Rev. Mr. Merson, Elgin, writes to us,                                                     n"otMinogxotnh'ast  he has        in his possession
a book  which belonged to Mr. C'untley, viz.                                                                                        to Astronomie
                                                                                                                      Tutor
AND Geographie," on some of the leaves of which are his name, beautifullv
                            Mr.   Merson has cut one of the
                            --of  which the annexed woodeut
AL.CANTLYprinted with thepen.                                                                                         names out     of his book
                   to us,                                                                                             is an exact   fac simile.
 and kindlv sent it
                 Fac simile of Alexander Cantley 's printed Signature.

andOFrnonemotoft"heoCuaarnbotnlveoetye,s"cutmasiet Fnwetirioglnlusbseotnsheahetans"thitta.hter"e  Canti.y  " is the spelling of     the name,
                                                                                                           no doubt thai Mr.        A lexander
                                                                                                   can be

Cantley would be buried in the churchyard of Old Keith, as there was a burial-
ground there during the last century which belonged lo the Canllies."
Of course it cannot now be ascertained when Mr. Cantley died, but it is evident
               long dead previous to 1773, when
that he was   in it that Mr. Cantley continued his                                                fFreiergnudso"ntiwllrohteis       his Memoir,    as
he mentions                                                                                                                         death."
   Moxon's '* Tutor
its day; our copy is  to Astronomic and     Geo"grLaopnhdico"n                                             was a very popular                      work in
                       the second edition.                                                                 : Printed by Joseph                     Moron,
and sold at his shop in Russet Street, at the sign of the Atlas, 1670."
24 This is an anachronism ; there was no Earl of Fife at the |>criod here referred
to, nor for   nearly 30 years after it.    Mr. Cantley, in 1730 31,                                                                 went to William
              of Braco, who became       Lord Braco in 1735, and                                                                    bEearwi,asof"  Fife in
Duff, Esq.    died 30th Sept. 1763 ;     and as a matter of course,
1759. He                                                                                                                                           the lute

Karl of  Fife"    when Ferguson, in       1773, wrote h is Memoir.                                                                  This Earl of Fife
                 William Duff, Esq.      of Dipple, near Fochahers.                                                                   In 1730-1, Wil
was the  son of
liam Duff, of Braco, afterwards Earl of Fife, had scats at Dipple, Braco, Del-
GETTY, RoTHIEMAY,        and BalVENY CASTlE.
        This appears to  have been a very popular and                                                      successful work -- " Geography
                          Geographical Grammar,"                                                             by Patrick Gordon, M. A.,
Anatomiz'd; or, the
F. R. S. : octavo. Our copy of it is the twentieth edition, published in London in
sFo1biy7fsa5tistdt4he.wofeifenrrIi"entiioTnisnswos,GmoueoedddPe,oasilcrndTtrshipc1oat;6mit"9oaa3--nlos,g,aPuanaendLrsdtoirn1dodsfet1rbA7igvo2rioa2vckt.ehsiosbniiI--nst"hiaoos"upgdrpeelpdoenoiaecfsasrsCataeelsnadstvnioiptenetr,woorbblow"eufmeTrtyshho.ebespge"emlrovrbfeooeTsr,ht"mtheKaailbbtelulovcesoedtkrbriateuictonoelnhnudse
                                             LIFE OF THE AUTHOR                                                              21

is no figure of a globe in                                although                          contains a tolerable
                                                          it,
description of the globes, and their use. From this description,
                                                            I
made globe in three weeks at my father's, having turned
I                                                                  I
  Ithe ball thereof out of piece of wood, which ball covered withaa                                        I it I
                                                                        it it
                   ;paper, and delineated map of the world upon --made the    it
meridian ring and horizon of wood -- covered them with paper,
                 a
and graduated them and was happy to find that, by my globe
                                             I;
(which              was the      first          ever saw), could solve the                                       problems.
    1731.                       as this         was not likely to afford me                                       bread, and I
                    -- But

could not think of staying with my father, who knew full well

could not maintain me in that way, as would be of no service

to him and he had, without my assistance, hands sufficient for

all his work.-"

      then went to miller, thinking would be a very easya
business to attend the mill, and that should have a great deal
of leisure time to study decimal arithmetic and geometry. But
my master, being too fond of tippling at an ale-house, left the
whole care of the mill to me, and almost starved me for want

of victuals, so that, was glad when could have a little oat-
                                :                                                is I
terrestrial         globe --some   paradoxical positions                  in           ismatters of Geography, which mainly
depend on           a thorough      ;Iknowled,gc of the globe             --  and                       a
                                                                              2d         gliavsetsly,"  a  transient survey  of ofthe
whole surface of the terraqueous globe." Partit                                                            particular view        the
terraqueous globe, in                           is
air, soil, commodities,            extent, situation, division, sub-division, chief linens, name,
                                    rarities, arehbuihops, bishops, universities, manners, lan

guage, government, arms, religion, <kc." Such                                              an outline of the contents of

mCaanpstl,o--y'spapgaerstin41g6-gifot ct.to  Kerguson.      Our copy                     embellished with great many
                                                    now   very scarce                                                 a

                                                          a                      thhoeok",  having been about 100 years
                                                                    ;                       Strange Geographical Para
out of print. Section 4th of part 1st contains
doxes,' pp. 35 to 40 inclusive. They are very curious, and most excellent for ex
citing the mind on matters Geographical and no doubt they would prove both in
                   and amusing      to Ferguson at this period of                           "hitshelifefui(i1u7t3s1,
teresting             matter of    course, this has reference to                                                    ofage    21 years).
    26 As                          his Memoir Ferguson mentions                             that his father             the
                   beginning of                                                                                              family."
fNaemairlyt.he"    aa                                                                                                  had
                         is                                                                                                   "a large
                    Wishing to ascertain how many of family Ferguson's parents had, and
                                                                          a

also their names, we wrote to several friends in the counties of Elgin, Banff, and
Aberdeen, but without receiving any reliable notes. One of our correspondents
mentions Margaret Ferguson, eldest sister of the astronomer, who died before
1770. In our copy of Ferguson's will, dated 15th August 1776 (see Appendix),
we find the names of three sisters, and probably in the order of their ages, viz.
Elspeth, Elizabeth, and Janet                            Margaret being                                    w" ilJlohwna,s
of course not named but                                 singular that his        "dead before the                            made,     is
                                   ;                                                                                         who was
                                                                                     elder brother
                                           it

                                                    is ;

then alive, not mentioned in                              therefore,             the        parents        of Ferguson       had at
least two sons aml four daughters, -- viz.                it

6. 5. 4. 3. 2. 1.  John Ferguson, born 12th March          \I ;           Died at Rklashes, near Rothiemay, in

                                                                      ii
                   James, born 25 April 1710,             at Died at Bolt Court, London, 16 Nov.
                                                                                 4

                   Core of Mayen,
                   Margaret, unknown
                   Elspeth,                                                                    unknown.
                                   dn.                                                               do.

                   Elizabeth,      do.                    Died at Barsuii.i.s,                       do.                     in 1733.
                   Janet,          do.                                                      near Rothiemay,
22 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

meal, mixed with cold water, to eat. I was engaged for a year
in this man's service, at the end of which I left him, and re

turned in a very weak state to my father's.27

   1732. -- Soon after I had recovered my former strength, a

neighbouring farmer, who practised as a physician in that part
of the country, came to my father's, wanting to have me as a
labouring servant. My father advised me to go to Doctor Young,
telling me that the doctor would instruct me in that part of his
business. This he promised to do, which was a temptation to
me. But instead of performing his promise, he kept me con
stantly to very hard labour, and never once showed me one of

his books. All his servants complained that he was the hardest

master they had ever lived with ; and it was my misfortune to
be engaged with him for half a year. But at the end of three

Imonths was so much over-wrought, that I was almost disabled,

wbich obliged me to leave him ; and he was so unjust as to give

me nothing at all for the time I had been with him, because I
did not complete my half-year's service, though he knew that I

was not able, and had seen me working for the last fortnight,

as much as possible, with one hand and arm, when I could not
lift the other from my side. And what I thought was particu

larly hard, he never once tried to give me the least relief, fur
ther than once bleeding me, which rather did me hurt than

Igood, as was very weak and much emaciated. I then went

to my father's, where I was confined for two months on ac

count of my hurt, and despaired of ever recovering the use
of my left arm ; and during all that time, the doctor never
once came to see me, although the distance was not quite two

27 As Ferguson (toes not give the name of his "tippling miller," nor that of
the mill, we cannot fill up the blank, although to have done so would have been
interesting, items at this distant period. Mr. Robert Sim, of Keith, in a letter to
us, mentions the sites of several old nulls, and mills still in operation in and around
Keith,                      The Mill-o-wood, 1 mile   "NyEetofwAecllhoreymneamnebyere; dt,he   present mill is
modern.  viz."  1st,        old mill," says Mr. Sim,                                          stood some dis
                The

tance below the present one, and was an old and romantic-looking thing, from its
osintutahteiownhebeel.lo"w  an immense rock, over and through       crevice of which the water fell
                             (We find that about the beginning  a   the present century this mill
                                                                of

was  the one generally understood  as that   in which Ferguson "served and starved.")
2d,  Tarnach mill, above 1 mile    SW of    Achoynaney ; 3d, The Earl's mill, on the
Isla, a little to the east of Old Keith; 4th, At old Newmills, about 1J mile NE
of Keith, close to which there was a blacksmith who kept an ale-houso (many in
consequence of this link incline to think that it was here where Ferguson starved
and the tippling miller enjoyed himself); 5th, Nether mills, about 3 miles down
the Isla from Keith, and about 1 mile to the south of Braco house, Grange; 6th,
Crook's mill, about 2 miles NW of Keith, &c.
                                LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                              23

miles.5s But my friend, Mr. Cantley, hearing of my misfortune,
at twelve miles' distance, sent me proper medicines and ap

plications, by means of which I recovered the use of my

arm ; 29 but found myself too weak to think of going into ser-

he  2S It is evident  "thhaits  FHeurmgus"ohnadhandotno"tfablleeenn  long in Dr.  pYlaocucn.i.g'"s   service  when
''  found out that                                                   in pleasant                    A writer
    for the sake of humanity, it is to be hoped that very few                                                 says,
                                                                                  Dr. Youngs have             had a
resting-place on this nether sphere. It is scarcely possible to conceivo of any one
so utterly devoid of all the finer feelings of our nature as this Surgeon-farmer."
The bad treatment Ferguson here experienced appears never to have been for
gotten by him. In 1773, when he wrote his Memoir, a date 42 years after
he had left this service, the rememberance of his treatment came up in strong
relief,   and thus made him throw the picture                         into the story     of his      life.       We
leave    him in Ferguson's hands ; what he says                      of him is to the    point,     and       "  will

always show the doctor up as a very unpleasant specimen of the human species."
We have made a great many inquiries touching the name of the farm occu
pied by Dr. Young, in order to ascertain the whereabouts of the residence of Fer
                   (Dr. Y. lived    within  2 miles of his father's                      but we have met
guson's  parents,  in this matter   --even  the time of his death                 cot),  where buried are
with no   success                                                                 and
unknown. It would have been interesting to have known if he lived long enough
to hear of Ferguson's world-wide fame.      We                       ouhropceorrheespodnidd,enatsndsaryesgrtehtatted"  his
treatment of the embryo astronomer. One     of                                                                         his

father, who died in the beginning of the present century, understood that Dr.
Young was a fucrr                      He was also a bit of          a farmer ; but, a so-and-so sort
of one." He adds,     d"ocittori.s  likely thai this worthy          was interred in Old Keith kirk-
yard." Dr. Young's farm was within 2 miles of the now unknown residence of
Ferguson's parents. It is supposed by some that his farm was at Pitlurg, a few
miles to the SSE of Keith.
    29 Ferguson here gives us one of the few distances mentioned in his
Memoir. He     speaks of his friend Mr. Cantley as                   being at the Earl              of Fife's,
mlies distant  from his father's cot; probably these                   12 miles are old                                 12
                                                                                                    miles, if          so,
24 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

vice again, and had entirely lost my appetite, so that I could

take nothing but a draught of milk once a-day, for many weeks.

  IIn order to amuse myself in this low state, made a wooden

clock, the frame of which was also of wood ; and it kept time

pretty well. The bell on which the hammer struck the hours,

was the neck of a broken bottle.'10

   Having then no idea how any timekeeper could go but by a

Iweight and a lino, wondered how a watch could go in all posi

tions, and was sorrv that I had never thought of asking Mr.

Cantley, who could very easily have informed me. But happen

ing one day to see a gentleman ride by my father's house (which
was close by a public road), I asked him what o'clock it then was ;

he looked at his watch, and told me.31 As he did that with so much

good nature, I begged of him to show me the inside of his watch ;

and though he was an entire stranger, he immediately opened

the watch and put it into my hands. I saw the spring-box with

part of the chain round                               and asked him what was that
                                       ;

                                         it,

                                                I

                                                                    it
                                                                             it
made the box turn round he told me that was turned round

by a steel spring within it. Having never seen any other spring

than that of my father's gun-lock, asked how a spring within

box could turn the box so often round as to wind all the chain
a
     aupon it. He answered, that the spring was long and thin that
                                                                                   Na
          aone end of was fastened to the axis of the box, and the other                      by a
               it                                                                                 ;

end to the inside of the box that the axis was fixed, and the                                         ;a
                                                      ;                                                  ;

then they are equal to    a1       Ifmodern ones.           Mr. Cantley was then at Balveny Castle,    ; if
then line of 15 miles, in the direction of Keith from by the road, terminates5it,
at place culled Floors,                miles NK of Old Keith, in the parish of Grange, anda
this Floors                        44
                       old miles, or nearly modern miles, from Durn house.
        Ferguson made this clock in the year 1731 (when he was 21 years ofisa
age). The neck of broken bottle was an ingenious make-shift for bellit 79
                        would give out                                                    Mr. Dean
securely fixed,                                           clear, sharp, and sweet sound.
Walker, lecturer on Astronomy, London, son of the celebrated Mr. Adam Walker,

lecturer on Natural and Experimental Philosophy, the friend of Ferguson, had
     his                           many of Ferguson's papers, and                  pen and ink sketches
in  we     possession  a    great  1831, and were presented with                     number of them and
          called on    him in
--

other memoranda.          On one of these papers was drawing in pen and ink of this
                                                              F,
clock, which we give above on reduced scale, as an interesting memorial of thisa
early period of Ferguson's life.       a                    remarkbale that Mr. John Harrison, the

                                           It

                                                   is

celebrated inventor of the marine chronometer, when also unwell and in low
condition, in the 21st year of his age, made two wooden clocks of peculiar con

struction.

    31 Ferguson here informs ns that his "father's house teas close                       a public
road," but does not say where. The public roads around Keith are those
leading to Mortlach and Ralveny Castle on the SW; to Fochabers, Elgin, and
" IfSpey side on the NW of Keith to Cullen and Portsoy on the and NE and
                       is                                                SE.         Floors be assumed
                                                   ;                     road,     then that road, which
to Orange, Rothiemay, and Huntly                      on the  and               "
as the place alluded to, as being
                                                          near a public

runs close by it. that leading to Durn and Portsoy.
                     LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                                     25

                                               told him did not yet thoroughly
box was loose upon      it.

                         it I

                                    if
                                             it 1

                                                                                :

                                                             it

                                                                                a

                                                                               it
understand the matter. Well, my lad, says he, take long thin

piece of whalebone, hold one end of fast between your finger

and thumb, and wind round your finger                                                          will then en

deavour to unwind itself; and you fix the other end of to

                     Action of Watch Main-spring Illustration.
                     a

                                            a
the inside of small hoop, and leave to itself, will turn the
                                                                      I it               it

                                                                                                                           ;
hoop round and round, and wind up a thread tied to the out

side of the hoop.    I  thanked the gentleman, and told him that

I   understood the thing very well.33                                       then tried to make a

watch with wooden wheels, and made the spring of whalebone

    *T- This  ; is   happy illustration of the principle and action of the main-spring
                  a
of watch perhaps the simplest that was ever offered or can he given. We
    a      wood-cut ol the arrangement of parte. The interview between Fergu
Rive    a

sonppa.nd20t3h, is20u4n,knaoswnfollgowenst:le--ma"nWhotakenthenreotitcheat  of in   the  Lib.  Ent. Know.,   vol.
I.                                             is                             docs  not  envy  the pleasure  that
                                                    is

must have been fell by the courteous, intelligent stranger, by whom the young me
chanician was carried over his first great difficulty,                        he ever chanced to learn font:
                                                                            if
greatly his unknown questioner had profiled from their brief interview! That stran
ger miglit probably have read this narrative, as given to the world by Ferguson,
after the talents ivhich this little incident probably contributed to develop, had raiseil
him from his obscurity to a distinguished place among the philosophers of his age
and he did know this, he must have felt that encouragement in well-doing which
a                                                                                              of
                                                                                                          of ;
     if

                                                                  D;
a benevolent man may always gather, either from the positive effects                           acts

kindness upon others, or their influence upon his own heart."
   Young Ferguson requesting a sight of the works of the watch, showed that such
    piece of mechanism was new to him and also, that his father was not pos
sessed of one. Indeed, about this period, 1731, watches were only worn by the

wealthy.
26 A SHOUT ACCOUNT OF THE

Ibut found that could not make the watch go when the balance

was put on, because the teeth of the wheels were rather too weak

to bear the force of a spring sufficient to move the balance,

although the wheels would run fast enough when the balance
Iwas taken off.'13
                    enclosed the whole in a wooden case, very

little bigger than a breakfast teacup ; but a clumsy neighbour,

one day looking at my watch, happened to let it fall, and turn

ing hastily about to pick it up, set his foot upon and crushed
                                    I
all to pieces, which so provoked my father, that he was almost;
it                                                       a
ready to beat the man and discouraged me so much, that                                                          I
  I                                            is a I
never attempted to make such another machine again, especiallyI
                                                           I
as was thoroughly convinced could never make one that                I it,

would be of any real use.                                                                carried my

   1733. -- As soon as was able to go abroad,

globe, clock, and copies of some other maps besides that of the

world, to the late Sir James Dunbar, of Durn (about seven
miles from where my father lived), as had heard that Sir

James was very good-natured, friendly, inquisitive gentle
           I
man.34 He received me in a very kind manner, was pleased
               a
with what showed him, and desired would clean his clocks.

3)1 Ferguson, even although he made        minute inspection of the gentleman's
watch whilst was in his hands, would, notwithstanding, experience many untold
           it

difficulties in the process of making his wooden one. The sight of the works uf
the watch by  the  bwaalayn-cseide--  was  bbaulatnce-smproimngen--tatrhye         glance; he could not then
have studied  the                     the                                          shape of the verge, and its
action on the crown-wheel inside. It therefore to be presumed that he had
subsequent examinations of watches, in the possession of neighbouring gentle
men. He could not, by inspection at the road-side, have seen the balance-spring,
or how was fixed, except by removing part of the works.
*4 After Ferguson had sufficiently recovered from his illness, he informs usit
that he went to; Sir James Dunbar's, at Durn, carrying                                                          mcilloecsk,"
and maps and     that Durn, the residence of Sir James,                            with  "hiambohuits   globe,
                                                                                   was                 seven
from where his father then lived. The present Baronet, the Rev. Sir William
Dunbar of Kew, informs us, that Sir James Dunbar was born on the 9th January
1668, was served heir to his father. Sir William Dunbar (3d Bart.), on 10th Feb
ruary 1709, and died about the beginning of February 1739, in the 71st year of
his age consequently. Sir James died                                               Ferguson became known        to the
world, and would be about 64 years old     before                                  time of Ferguson's visit.  -- Durn
                                           at the
     ;
                                                                                a
House and estate at one time belonged to family of the name of Menzies,
who sold them to Sir William Dunbar, whose son, Sir James, sold them to
John Falconer, Esq., whose relict sold them to Alexander Gordon of Letter-
fourie, whose son, Sir James, sold them to the Earl of Seafield, the present

proprietor. The old house and gateway of which Ferguson speaks were removed
about the year 1770. The present Durn House has therefore no connection
with Ferguson's history. Conceiving that view of old Durn House and gate
                                           a if a a

                                                                        a
way would be interesting, we addressed     note to Mr. Bryson, factor of the
Earl of Seafield, Cullen house, inquiring   there was any view of these extant.
In his very obliging reply, he enclosed    reduced drawing of old Durn House
and gateway, taken from an old charter in the Charter-chest of the Earl of

Seafield, of which we have much pleasure in giving here copy.
                           LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                             27

IThis, for the first time, attempted, and began to pick up some

money in that way about the country, making Sir James's house

my home, at his desire.35

                           Durn House Gate-way, 1760.

  ITwo large globular stones stood on the top of his gate. On

one of them painted (with oil colours) a map of the terrestrial
globe, and on the other, a map of the celestial, from a plani

sphere of the stars, which I copied on paper from a celestial

globe belonging to a neighbouring gentleman. The poles of
the painted globes stood toward the poles of the heavens. On

  Durn is about 13 miles NE of Keith, 1 mile E of Fordyce, and 2 miles SSW of
Portsoy. Durn is in the parish of Fordyce. In the centre of the parish rise
the hills of Durn and Fordyce, extending continuously, and in a crescent form,
from NE to SW. The remains of an encampment on the hill of Durn are still
visible ; there are also other relics, which show that the vicinity had often been
the scene of hostile feuds. Quartz rock forms the round-backed eminence of
Durn-hill, while boulders of syenite abound at the foot. At Portsoy there is a
splendid sea-view, and no doubt our young astronomer journeyed often to
this quarter during his stay at Durn House. Portsoy marble has world-wide

fame.

Ferguson here gives another of bis distances ; he says that Durn, the re
sidence of  Sir James Dunbar, was "about seven miles" from where
                                                                                         his father
lived. If   these 7 miles   are   old miles, then  they are nearly equal             to  9 modern
                           we    assume Floors in  the parish of Grange,            44
miles (see  note 29). If                                                                 miles NE
of Keith, to have been the residence of Ferguson's father at this period, it will be
found to be about 9 miles to the SSW of Durn.
35 Here Ferguson comes before us as a cleaner and repairer of clocks. About
                    century the old people in the north of Banffshire used
the   end of last   c"leraenpedairecldockrsoaasttinogne-jaschkisl,linagndeacahn, y  and oiled tlvem for a  ptoennreyla;te"
that   "Ferguson                                                                     other thing that had   mechan
and   that he also
ism about it." But it must be recollected that the shilling and the penny of 1732
would purchase more than would the same coins in the present day.
28 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

each, the 24 hours were placed around the equinoctial, so as to
show the time of the day when the sun shone out, by the
boundary where the half of the globe at any time enlightened
by the sun was parted from the other half in the shade ; the
enlightened parts of the terrestrial globe answering to the like

enlightened parts of the earth at all times ;--so that whenever

the sun shone on the globe, one might see to what places the
sun was then rising, to what places it was setting, and all the
places where it was then day or night throughout the earth.36

  During the time I was at Sir James's hospitable house, his

sister, the Honourable the Lady Dipple, came there un a visit,
and Sir James introduced me to her.37 She asked me whether 1

36 In note 34 we mentioned that this gateway aml globular stones were re
moved about the year 1770. The globular stone.i are. however, still in exist
ence ; one of them is built into tin: west gable of the Church of Old, about 6
miles SVV of Hanll'. and 44 SE of Durn ; the other one lies on the lawn of the
manse of Rotlnemav, about 10 miles S of Durn. The Rev. Mr. Moir of Rothie-
may has kindly obliged us with particulars of the stone in his possession, and as
tMith stones would be precisely alike, the                       on that of
will be equally applicable to the stone         following note    Mr. Moir   Rsaoytsh, ie"mathye

                                                at Ord: -- Rev.
slime in my possession is of freestone, is 18 inches in diameter, and weighs. 1
cwt. 3 qrs. 2 lbs., or 198 lbs. No IroM of Ferguson's pointing is now to Ik
seen on it." This is not to be wondered at, as it is now about 132 years
since Ferguson "tried his prentice hand" on them. The stones, being 18 mches
in diameter, have 1018 square inches of globular surface each. Would it not be
well to have these stones erected at the Core of Mayen, where he was born, as a
memorial of his early genius ? The gateway faced the east, and a straight line
passing through the centres of the stones lay due north and south. The south
globular stone had the terrestrial globe painted on it, and the north one the celes
tial. We give a sketch of these stones from an old pen and ink drawing done in
1760. In                 mofeMntoioxnon'stha"t   the Rev. Mr. Merson of Elgin has       in his
            note 23 we                          Tutor to Astronomic and Geographic,  "  which
possession  an old copy
once belonged to Mr. Alexander Cantley, the friend of Ferguson. In this work
there is an engraving of a pillar fountain, on the top of which there is a "globu
lar stone," having on it a map of the. world, and the 24 hours of day and night,
which was erected at the corner of Leadenhall Street, London, before 1670. The
description given of this dial is similar to Ferguson's account of the Durn stone.
Mr. Merson therefore thinks it not improbable that Ferguson may have seen
Moxon's book while at Mr. Grant's, Achoynaney, in 1730, and that this globular
stone-dial suggested to him the painting of the globular stones at Durn. We

think this very probable ; but if Ferguson did see Moxon's book while at Achoy
naney, in 1730, he would see in it several representations of the globes, fully
mounted ; and hence, although in Gordon's Geography there is no figure of the
globe, yet, what he had seen in Moxon would enable him to complete his
wooden globe without much assistance from Gordon's Grammar.
    We may    hw5ce6iirrt)ech,lesmneonetgoenrftaittovhhnieanstgssptahhoecarfoterarhealeisnkpde"onchcdhaoeadnnrsatstceeteloelnafrt,iatohstnaeisGdea"rdttoenitncohsgrasr,vaeovfeSbntteihrelenoinngLmistbahh.dieremeE,bn, yta.gnNldKoabnpuociolweanr,r

(vol. II. p.

stones, with
cave stones

(the inventor of logarithms). These are supposed to have becn dono by him
in his vouth, when residing at Gartncss, about the year 1568.
   3" We are much indebted to Francis Frascr, Esq.', of Findrnrk, Aberdeenshire,
and his brother William N. Fraser, Esq., of Toruaveen, (the great-grandsons of
Ijidy Hippie's eldest daughter, Anne Duff, and wife of William Baird, Esq. of
                           LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                                                                                            2!)

Icould draw patterns for needle-work on aprons and gowns. On

showing me some, undertook the work, and drew several for

her, some of which were copied from her patterns, and the rest I

                                            The Lad; Dipple.

did according to my own fancy. On this 1 was sent for by other

Iladies in the country, and begun to think myself growing very
rich by the money got for such drawings, out of which I had

ADuipcphlme.edd"enL),adyforDtihpeplefol'slomwianigdenintnearmesetinwgasnoJteeasn  on the good and amiable Lady
                                                                                    Dunbar; she was the second
wile of William Duff, Esq., of Dipple, near Fochabers, lather of the first Earl of
Fife; and was the youngest daughter of Sir William Dunbar, Bart., of Durn, by
his wife, Janet Brodie, daughter of Dean Brodie of Aldearn. She had one son,
Alexander, who died in his infancy in 1722, and four daughters, named Anne,
Janet, Mary, and Henrietta. Anne, her eldest daughter, my great-grandmother,
      fmowuaasrrriaebrdpothhtyoesrsiWciaialnlniadminthrDeBeuanirssdise,t;erEsJos--qhnv,,iozi.fn: AtSuhcierhmJaaremmdedys,end,Dieudinnbinathr,eAmyoeef ariDrcaurn.in;  . . She
was                                                                                                                                                                    William,
                                                                                                                                                                      1759; and
bad
who
George, a lawyer in Edinburgh, who also died in 1759. Her sisters were, Anne,
married to the fourth Earl of Findlater and Seafield; 2d,                         , married to James

Gordon of Letterfourie; and 3d, Grisel, married to Tulloch of Tannachie. . . .

I may mention that the original oil-painting of Lady Dipple is at Findraek, is 2
                                                              iEnsqa.,lafrogreh^isilkt infrdanmeess."
feet  5 inches   in length, and 2 feet broad,1 mounted                                                                                                                in  We also
feel  ourselves   much indebted to William N. Fraser,                                                                                                                     sending

us a photograph from the oil-painting of Lady Dipple, at Findraek, from which
we had a miniature one taken, an engraving from which is annexed, and is pro
nounced a faithful copy of the original; it cannot fail to be very interesting to
every admirer of Ferguson. The same gentleman was also so kind as to send us
                           the inscription  on the blank leaf of Lady             Dipple's Bible,                                                                         now in
a tracing from             of Robert DulT,  Esq., at Fetteresso Castle,           Kincardineshire,                                                                        -- it is
athsefoploloswsess:si--on

      "Jean Dunbars bibell which she leaves in memorandim to her son-in-law
      bracow in testimonie of her regard to him whom is in the plais of her
      Dirly belowed and only son, Alexander Duff who daye'd 1722 aged
      years, a most hopfowl and beautifowl child."
30 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

the pleasure of occasionally supplying the wants of my poor
father.3s

  Yet all this while I could not leave off star-gazing in the

nights, and taking the places of the planets among the stars by

    Lady Dipple's son-in-law became Huron Draco in 1735 ; then this 1iible inscrip
tion must have been written after that date. A great many ohl people m the
          of Elgin, Banff, Aberdeen, &c., who              were alive                      about the end
counties  century, who had seen Lady Dipple,               represented                      her as being      "  of
the last                                                                                                          a

most handsome and beautiful lady." At the time of Ferguson's introduction
to her at Durn. in                                                                           Sir  "JamMerss.  Baird,
liart. , Edmonstone,     1732, she       would be about    50 years  old.                  that                Duff,
                         Libberton,       near Edinburgh,   informs  us,
wife of William Duff, Esq. of Dipple, was courteously called Lady Dipple, in
accordance with the Dien Scotch fashion of designating      Ittheislut.hadesrefoofrfeameviliideesntbyththaet
name of the property rather than by the surname."
Lady Dipple was merely a title of courtesy, and that Mrs. Duff, or Lady Dntf
of Dipple, was the proper designation. Lady Dipple's husband, William Dull' of
Dipple, died in 1722. We cannot ascertain when Lady Dipple died, or how old
she was at the time of her death. Collating and comparing a great many notes
we have received on this point, it would appear that she was born at Durn in the
year 1681, and died in 1763, aged 82 years. She therefore lived to hear that her
protege had published many useful astronomical works ; that he had become a
public lecturer on                       ; that he had received an   annual pension of £50
iron1 King George     aIIsIt.r;onoamndy  that he had been elected    a Fellow of the Royal
Society -- honours which would be hailed with joy by the good and pious Lady

Dipple.
3<*An aged correspondent informs us, that in his young days (1790) he had
been shown (in the north  offroBmanFffesrhgiures)ons'seve"rafal npcieycedsesoigfnlsa,ce",   two   gowns, and an
apron, which were sewed                                                                    and    that they were

very beautiful.    We    have not been able to ascertain    Ferguson's scale of charges
for such designs.        is pleasing, however, to observe,   that he was so attentive to
                     It

the wants of his parents when a little money accumulated in his hands.
LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.  31

ray above-mentioned thread. By this I coidd observe how the

planets changed their places among the stars, and delineated
their paths on the celestial globe.

   By observing what constellations the ecliptic passed through

in that map, and comparing these with the starry heaven, I was
so impressed as sometimes to imagine that I saw the ecliptic in

the heavens, among the stars, like a broad circular road for the
sun's apparent course, and fancied the paths of the planets to
resemble the narrow ruts made by cart-wheels, sometimes on

one side of the plain road, and sometimes on the other, crossing
the road at small angles, but never going far from either side

of it.39

                                   Durn House, Banffshire, 1753, from SW.

   Sir James's house was full of pictures and prints, several of

which I copied with pen and ink ; this made him think I might

become a painter.
   Lady Dipple had been but a few weeks there, when William

Baird, Esq. of Auchmedden, came on a visit.40 He was the

   39 This is an origiuul idea, and a very simple and excellent illustration it is.
liut had Ferguson used the word zodiac instead of ecliptic, it would have been in
much better keeping, as the ecliptic is simply an imaginary line, supposed
to be described by the centre of the sun in the heavens ; whereas, the zodiac is a
broad way or belt in which the planets move, and is cut into equal halves by the
ecliptic line.

rhtE"hiaedevh4dme0alaovtsoAnibtnssegAtmeonnmnabneleeeae,ennmtrDieLeoopuinnbsrfgeeftba,sdegekreneitdtlniodandenti-siv,hntneeoEattdehdraoetiuenf3rgdb7tehhu,betraeegWfnlrahlidio,mollnfiaialciLoynmcaffood1omry7mfBp4at5slDhii,sreidphuh,pHesedloetwuE.hsagsaesqet.noo"t"bolfeMSlfiAmgqAeuruaduc.inrhce.hmWtomeBirledSaleiddiiamrrdedmeanJani"n;m"BaewipansapainreshddaBirdamstiwihrnadaagtr,os
:V2 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

husband of one of that lady's daughters, and I found him to be

very ingenious and communicative. He invited me to go to

his house and stay some time with him, telling me that I should

have free access to his library, which was a very large one, and
he would furnish me with all sorts of implements for drawing.

I went thither, and stayed about eight months ; 41 but was much

disappointed in finding no books of Astronomy in his library,
except what was in the two volumes of Harris's Lexicon Tech-
nicum,42 although there were many books on geography, and
other sciences. Several of these indeed were in Latin, and more

in French ; which being languages that I did not understand, I
had recourse to him for what I wanted to know of these sub

jects, which he cheerfully read to me; and it was as easy for
him, at sight, to read English from a Greek, Latin, or French
book, as from an English one.43 He furnished me with pencils

at Echt, for some years afterwards. His property was not confiscated, but owing
to the difficulties he was brought into by having borrowed large stints of money to
aid in the cause of the Stuarts, he was obliged to dispose of the family estates, in
or about the year 1750. He had six sons and four daughters, all of whom died
without issue, with the exception of Henrietta, the youngest daughter, who married

IFrancis Fraser of Pimlrack, whose descendant, Francis Fraser, Ksq. of Findrack,

Aberdeenshire, is in possession of many of his relics; and is, believe, the pos
sessor of the picture you allude to as painted by Ferguson." Mr. Humphreys,
Aberdeen, informs us that William Buird of Auehmedden was born in 1701, and

died in 1777, aged 76 years; and was buried in the churchyard of St. Nicholas in
Aberdeen; and that Anne, his wife, was born at Dipple in 1705, and died at
A"bSeqrdueireen BinauJdanu" atrhyer1e7fo7r3e,  aged oS, and was buried beside her husband. The
                                               lived through the whole of Ferguson's life-time,     good
                                                                                                     and

would hear of his world-wide renown, and the honours that had been conferred
upon him. At the time of Ferguson's visit to him at Auehmedden he was 32
years old, and Ferguson about 23.
   41 Auehmedden is in Aberdeenshire, about 30 miles to the X E of Keith, and 1 7

miles direct east of Durn House. The estate of Auchmeddeu is in the parish of
         The Rev. James Wilson (the present                        smayisn,ist"er.1  of Aberdour),  has kindly
       us with several interesting notes. He                                         uchmeddeu is   the name of
fAberdour.

furnished
a considerable estate, with upwards ofZ miles o coast line, and running into the in
terior to a point at least 6 miles from the sea. There is now no House of Auehmedden;
the ruins of the walls of the old Iwuse, however, still remain, and are visible from the
road, and the old garden is now turned into a field. The very picturesque fishing
village of Pennan, on the property, and within 4 a mile of the site of the old house,
remains probably not much changed since the days of Ferguson, in 1733, who must
luive been astonished at its situation. For six monihs the sun never shines on the

village, which, fronting the north, has a background of very high perpendicular
rucks  facing the southern shore of the Moray Firth."
   *-  Harris's Lexicon Teclmicum was a very popular               work about the beginning         of

last century; it has been long out of print. Our copy is in two huge folio volumes,
embellished             with numerous                              many of which are very rude and unneces
sDairciltyiolnaargrey.    It is entitled       "woLoedxeuictso, n   Techniccm, ok  oann lyUtnhiveetresraml sEonfcalirsti,i
                        of Arts and Sciences ;                     explaining not
but the arts themselves, by John Harris, D. U., and F.R.S. : Loudon, 1725."
*>There are still in existence several MS8. of Mr. Baird, particularly a trans
lation of the Greek of Thucydides. He appears to have had a taste for literary
as well as genealogical and antiquarian pursuits, and to have been a gentleman
                      LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                 33

and Indian ink, showing me how to draw with them ; and

although he had but an indifferent hand at that work, yet he
was a very acute judge, and consequently a very tit person for
showing me how to correct my work. He was the first who

                      William Baird, of Auehmedden.

ever sat to me for a picture, and I found it was much easier to

draw from the life than from any picture whatever, as nature
was more striking than any imitation of it.44

of considerable   accomplishments.    He wrote a History of his Surname,  printed
1857 -- and some   MSS. (by him) of  much interest are still extant.
44 This picture is still in excellent preservation, in the possession of his great-
grandson, Francis   Fraser, Esq.    of Findrack,    "AbTehredepeincstuhriree,(hewhsaoysh),asdoonbeligbeydMru.s
with the following  particulars   regarding it: --
Ferguson, of my great-grandfather, William Baird of Auchmedden, is in my pos
session, and has never been out of my family. It is done in Indian-ink, half-length
miniature on Bristol card. Its dimensions are 6 inches long, by 4{ inches broad,
placed within a small wooden frame rimmed with gilding and glazed. In the
'J.lower right-band corner, in the hand-writing of Ferguson, are as follows-- viz.

     F. pinxt,' and below the portrait

                      William Baird or Auchhkddbx
                      Soxvci 17S3.

I may add that the portrait is in excellent condition, apparently as good as it was
when first painted.' Mr. William N. Fraser, brother of Mr. Fraser of Findrack,
has also kindly obliged us with a copy of the original picture, from which
our  woodeut    has been taken, and      is in every respect     a Inithful copy of
the  original  by Ferguson. -- Ferguson    remarks, that he   "found it teat much

easier to draw from the life than, from any picture whatever, as nature was more
striking than any imitation of it.   The same opinion was held by the Rev. Robert
Keith, who, at his first interview with Ferguson, shortly after this, advised him
to copy from nature.

                                         E
           I

34 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

  ILady Dipple came to his house in about half a year after
went thither ; and as they thought I had a genius for painting,

they consulted together about what might be the best way to put

me forward. Mr. Baird thought it would be no difficult thing

to make a collection for me among the neighbouring gentlemen,

to put me to a painter at Edinburgh ; but he found, upon trial,

that nothing worth while could be done among them ; and, as

to himself, he could not do much that way, because he had but

a small estate and a very numerous family.41

   1734. --Lady Dipple then told me that she was to go to Edin
burgh next spring, and that if I would go thither, she would

give me a year's bed and board at her house gratis, and make

all the interest she could for me among her acquaintance
Ithere.48
           thankfully accepted of her kind offer, and instead of
Igiving me one year, she gave me two.
                                                                  carried with me a

letter of recommendation from the Lord Pitsligo (a near neigh
bour of Squire Baird' s),47 to Mr. John Alexander, a painter at

Edinburgh, who allowed me to pass an hour every day at his

house to copy from his drawings,4s and said he would teach me

to paint in oil-colours, if I woidd serve him seven years, and

my friends would maintain me all that time ; but this was too

Imuch for me to desire them to do ; nor did choose to serve so
long. I was then recommended to other painters, but they

45 As already mentioned (in note 40), "William liaird, Esq. of Auchmcdden,
had six sons and four daughters, all of whom died without issue, with the excep
tion of Henrietta, the youngest daughter, who married Francis Kraser of Find-

rack.
   <" Lady Dimple, now aged 53,                                   aEljcddinb2u4r,ghsa, ileadndfroism   Aberdeen for
Lcith in April 1734. Leith is    and  Ferguson,                                                       about 2 miles
                                 the  seaport of
NNE of it. Edinburgh, at this period, was confined within a small space on each
side of its principal street, and had a population of about 45,000. It is 395 miles
NNW of London, and        110 miles SSW of Aberdeen.
                          fourth Lord Pitsligo, a Scotch          Peer.  -- He  was                   "out"                                        in the
   47 Alexander Forties,
affair of '45, in the interest of Prince Charles Stuart, the Young Pretender, and was
attainted. Pitsligo Castle, formerly the seat of the Lords Pitsligo, is an ancient
building, surrounded by extensive gardens. Pitsligo is in the district of Buchan,
Aberdeenshire, about 34 miles W of Fraserburgh, and 7 miles E of Auchmcdden.
1,ord Pitsligo died in 1762.
   4S John Alexander   "waVsantdhyekegroeaf tS-gcoratlnadnsdo."n  of George Jatnesonc, the eminent
Scottish painter, the                                             It is singular that Ferguson takes

no notice of this in his Memoir. Mr. Alexander studied in Italy, residing many
years at Florence. He resided in St. John Street, Canongate, Edinburgh, where
he died about the year    csh1a7yo5sic2eo, nsetagoeddfraowu7ir3n.cgosr--rHeesspkhoeantdcdheaennstse,axnt"denapnsdirvineptsac.ionltleed"ctiHtohene  of port
folios, tilled with the                                                                                                                            mis both

painter and engraver,"                                                                                                                             staircase

of Gordon Castle 1721 (Kape of Proserpine), and whilst at Kome in 1717, he
etched 8 plates after Raphael." (Extract from letter to us from David Laing,
Esq., LL. D., Signet Library, Edinburgh).
                                LIFE OF THE AUTHOR                                      35

Iwould do nothing without money. So was quite at a loss

what to do.

  IIn a few days after this, received a letter of recommenda
Ition from my good friend Squire Baird to the Reverend Dr.

Robert Keith at Edinburgh,48 to whom gave an account of my

bad success among the painters there. He told me that if I
Iwould copy from nature, might do without their assistance,

as all the rules for drawing signified but very little when one
came to draw from the life ; 5o and by what he had seen of my

                                                       Merchiston Castle. 17t>4.

Idrawings brought from the North, he judged might succeed

very well in drawing pictures from the life, in Indian ink, on
vellum. He then sat to me for his own picture, and sent me
with it and a letter of recommendation to the Right Honour
able the Lady Jane Douglas, who lived with her mother the

49 A slight mistake here ; the Rev. Robert Keith was not a Dr. -- He was born
in 1681, at Uras, in Aberdeenshire, was ordained an Episcopal clergyman in
1710, and consecrated a Bishop of the Scottish Episcopal Church in 1727. He
resided in the Canongate, Edinburgh, from 1728 to 1752, when he removed to

Bennington, near I>eith (adjacent to Edinburgh), where he died on the 30th
                                                        in
January  "1757, aged 76 years, and   was interred       of  the Canongate churchyard. He
was the                             of the A ffairs         Church and State in Scotland,"
         author of The Watery
published in 1734, and dedicated to the Lady Jane Douglas, Merchiston Castle. He
w"aCs arteallaotgeude  to the Marischal family,    and  dedicated to Marshal Keith in 1755 his
                        of Scottish Bishops."           remarkable that Ferguson should have
                that he was a                    It is
                Editor of Lib.
for;guotTtheen                  Bishop, and to have     styled him Dr. Robert Keith.    "cer
                                Ent. Knowl., vol. I.    p. 206, remarks, that this was
tainly a bold counsel to give ; but Ferguson luxving in truth no other resource, fol
lowed  it,      and succeeded beyond his most sanguine ex-pectations." The bold counsel,

however, was but an axiom in art, which Ferguson had adopted on the occasion
of his painting, in Indian ink, the portrait of William Baird, Esq., in the year
previous, whilst he was sojourning at Auchmedden.
36 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

Marchioness of Douglas, at Merchiston House, near Edinburgh.81

Both the Marchioness 62 and Lady Jane behaved to me in the

most friendly manner, on Dr. Keith's account, and sat for their

Ipictures, telling me at the same time, that was in the very

room in which Lord Napier invented and computed the logar
I Iithms, and that if thought it would inspire me, should always
Ihave the same room whenever I came to Merchiston.
                                                                                                 stayed

there several days, and drew several pictures of Lady Jane, of

whom it was hard to say whether the greatness of her beauty,

51 I<ady Jane Douglas was the sister of Archibald, Duke of Douglas, and was
horn on the 17 th March 1698. She appears to hove been possessed of many singu
lar and                    shequwaalistiesspr;unhger--foigf usrteronagndnadtuerpaolrtpmaertnst,   noble, worthy of
that race  extraordinary
            from which                                                                           "imUpproonvedtheby4tehduof

cation, of an insinuating address, and engaging manners.
August 1746 (when in her 49th year). Lady Jane was privately married to John
Stewart, Esq., commonly called Colonel John Stewart, from his having held that
rank in the Swedish service. This gentleman afterwards became Sir John Stewart
of Grandtully. As the Duke of Douglas had a prejudice against Mr. Stewart, Lady
Jane went abroad, and concealed her marriage .                    . Lady Jane had two sons
born in Paris. With these, she and her husband returned to Britain ; but so hard

was their fate, that the Duke of Douglas rejected his nephews as supposititious
children, and would not even see Lady Jane nor them when they presented them
selves at the gate of his castle. A suit having been raised to prove that the eldest
son, Archibald Douglas, Esq., had been a supposititious child, it was given against
him in the Court of Session in Scotland by the casting-vote of the Lord President."

sTDuhucikcseeefdmoefddHinatgomtwihlaetos nda,u"fkteeisdrwosmatirldl saknndroewveensrtsaeatdess."bTyhTethheigsreHcaaotuusDseeo, uog"flaMsLro.CrdaAussr,cehai;nb"daldvhiedeDulo"tuimgLelaattsteelyrvs.
oFfacthueltyRigohf tAdHvooncoauteras.bl"e  Lady Jane              by Alexander Lockhart, Dean of the
                                                       Douglas,   was Lady Jane's husband's want of
                                           It appears  that such

e"coMnro. mSyt,ewthaartt,  he was for some time within    the     Rules of the   King's          Bench Prison.
                            her husband, was sunk in    debt,      prosecuted    by his          creditors, and

thrown into jail. In this destitute condition there was application made for
Lady Jane to his late Majesty (George 11.), who was graciously pleased to bestow
on her a pension of £300 per annum ; however, Lady Jane and her husband still
continued in very deplorable circumstances; in so much, that when Lady Jane
lived at Chelsea with her children, she was at different times reduced to the ne

cessity of selling her clothes and other trilling effects, for the support of her
family and her husband." Lady Jane died on '22d November 1753, m the 57th
year of her age, and was buried beside her mother, the Marchioness of Douglas,
in Holyrood Chapel burying-ground. Ferguson would hear of Lady Jane's mis
fortunes, and of her residing m Chelsea ; and as he was then residing in London,
it is likely that he often visited his former noble and kind patroness.
Merchiston House, or Castle, in which Lady Jane and her mother, the Mar
chioness of Douglas, resided in 1734, appears to have then belonged to a Mr.
Lewis, and that they rented it from him. It stands about a mile and a half S\V
of the Cross of Edinburgh, now in the suburbs of Edinburgh in that district. The
view of it, given above, is from a print of 1754, taken from the NE, showing
the Pentland hills on the SW m the distance. Allusion is here made to the room

in which Lord Napier computed the logarithms. It is understood that this was
           room  of the                                under the slates.
the52to"p  Lady  Mary       house, directly            of Robert, first Marquis  of Lothian,     and Mar
                           Kerr, daughter
chioness of Douglas, and mother of Archibald, first Duke of Douglas, died at
Edinburgh, 22d January 1736, in the 58th year of her age, and was interred in
                                                       The Marchioness therefore died during
Holyrood Chapel burying-ground."
Ferguson's first residence in Edinburgh, and about a year and a half after his

first visit to Merchiston.
                          LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                   37

or the goodness of her temper and dispositions, was the most

predominant.53 She sent these pictures to ladies of her ac

I Iquaintance, in order to recommend me to them, by which means
  soon had as much business as could possibly manage, so as
not only to put a good deal of money in my own pocket, but

also to spare what was sufficient to help to supply my father and

Imother in their old age.54 Thus a business was providentially

put into my hands, which followed for six and twenty years.55
   Lady Dipple being a woman of the strictest piety, kept

Ia watchful eye over me at first, and made me give her an

exact account at night of what families had been in through

out the day, and of the money I had received. She took the
I Imoney each night, desiring would keep an account of what

Ihad put into her hands, telling me that should duly have out
Iof it what wanted for clothes, and to send to my father ; but

in less than half a year, she told me that she would thenceforth

I Itrust me with being my own banker ; for she had made a good

deal of private inquiry how had behaved when was out of

her sight through the day, and was satisfied with my conduct.
I1736. -- During my two years' stay at Edinburgh,
                                                                       somehow

took a violent inclination to study anatomy, surgery, and

physic, all from reading of books and conversing with gentle

men on these subjects; which, for that time, put all thoughts of

astronomy out of my mind, and I had no inclination to become

acquainted with any one there who taught either mathematics

or astronomy, for nothing would serve me but to be a doctor.56

53 This euology on Lady Jane is quite borne out by what we have given at the
oeginning of note 51.

  *4 It is pleasing to observe that Ferguson was so attentive to the wants of his
parents ; indeed he appears to have attended to their little wants before attending
to his own.
55 The period to which Ferguson here refers is the summer of the year 1734 ;
if to this date we add 26 years, which he followed in limning, we are brought to
the year 1760, when it would appear that he entirely abandoned the profession of

limMnin"g.The  (See date  1760).   in the University  of Edinburgh     "wasThfiosunedmeidnenint
                Chair of  Anatomy

1720, and Dr. Alexander Monro, primus, was elected professor.
man is justly considered as the founder of its Medical School. From small be
ginnings, under his fostering care, and aided by coadjutors of the most splendid
talents and varied acquirements, it suddenly not only equalled, but became su
perior in fame, as a School of Medicine, to all the continental seminaries. Dr.
Monro, the first professor, died at tho age of 70, in 1767. The Chair for the Prac
tice of Medicine in the University of Edinburgh, was founded upon 9th February
1726. Dr. John                         the Practice of   Physic in it  Mfoer d4ic0inyee,ar--s,
was the first who  Rutherford taught   in the Infirmary   on Clinical                            and
                   delivered lectures                                                           Vido
Bower's Edinburgh Students' Guide, pp. 32, 33, 63, 64. Thus it was Professors
Monro and Rutherford who had given such an impetus to the studies of Ana-
38 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

  At the end of the secoud year, I left Edinburgh, and went to

see my father, thinking myself tolerably well qualified to be a

physician in that part of the country, and I carried a good deal
of medicines, plasters, &c., thither ; but to my mortification I

soon found that all my medical theories and study were of little
use in practice ; and then finding that very few paid me for the

Imedicines they had, and that was far from being so successful as
II could wish, quite left off that business,57 and began to think of

taking to the more sure one of drawing pictures again. For this

Ipurpose went to Inverness, where I had eight months business.5s
  I1739. -- When I was there began to think of Astronomy

Iagain, and was heartily sorry for having quite neglected it at

Edinburgh, where might have improved my knowledge by

Iconversing with those who were very able to assist me. began

to compare the ecliptic with its twelve signs (through which the
sun goes in twelve months) to the circle of 12 hours on the dial-
plate of a watch, the hour-hand to the sun, and the minute-
hand to the moon, moving in the ecliptic, the one always over
taking the other at a place forwarder than it did at their last

Iconjunction before. On this contrived and finished a scheme

on paper for showing the motions and places of the sun and

tomy and Fhysic shortly before Ferguson's visit to Edinburgh in 1734 ; and ac
cording to an old memorandum, dated shortly after this period, we observe that
"anatomy and physic; were all the rage in Edinburgh, and throughout Scotland
almost every one wished their sous to become doctors." Ferguson seems to have

caught the epidemic.
   At note 46 we mention that Ferguson arrived in Edinburgh in April 1734;
and as he says he was 2 years in Edinburgh, the period to which he refers his
dmwehepemraerotruaarbneoduufrtmomthienEedoniundrbuoprfogshSseespstimoenmu,sbtetrhhea1t7t3hF6ee.rgyuesIatornis17"n3o6rte. tuunrnIltiekdewlyotoutldthhaetapn"poetrahtreh, ,a"fffrsaoomimr eoaf
the  Portcous   Mob,   of the evening of  "September 6th,                            1736," may have hastened
his  departure   from  Edinburgh, as it
                                             quite unsettled                          that city for a great length

of time," as a chronicler of the period records.                                     that of a Dixtor.  We
   Ferguson comes here before us in a new profession,
think   tohfathiswas" Eauddaonsgiear,o"ussaysex--pevriizm. eMnrt..  F.Al"lumdaindeg   to this, Mr.  Capel Lofft, at
p. 223                                                                               some attempts  in the medieal
line, but honestly laid them aside soon, not venturing far in an employment to which
oeinxf peSererrpoimtreeamnrtebaeolrfkte1nn7o3ws6ol,efda"gtdaeils.ips"ennosIteledaspsprmeeaeqrdsuiicretinhdea,tthgFaaenvreggueosnuotinu,sp,alafatsenterdrhswi,shearrenetdutrahntetetconodnteshdeequnteoonrctahe,sll
the ills that flesh  is heir to," until early                                       (for upwards of 2 years); now
and then all the     while attending to the                         "intak1i7n3g9  of pictures" among the gentry

and his friends.
    57 As
or  early  mentioned in last note, it must have been about                           the  "encdouonf ttrhyedyoecator r,1"73aSt
           in 1739 that Ferguson abandoned the profession                            of

which period he would he about 28 or 29 years old.
   6» Inverness is 59 miles WSW of Keith, and it was, as he notes, the year 1739

when he went thither. In the month of May of this year, Ferguson married
Isabella Wilson, daughter of George Wilson, of the neigh Wmring parish of Grange.
                                    LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                      39

moon in the ecliptic on each da)' of the year perpetually, and
consequently the days of all the new and full moons.59
ITo this I wanted to add a method for showing the eclipses
of the sun and moon, of which                       knew the cause long before,

by having observed that the moon was for one half of her period

on the north side of the ecliptic, and for the other half on the

south; but having not observed her course long enough among

the stars by my above-mentioned thread, so as to delineate her

path upon my celestial map, in order to find the two opposite

points of the ecliptic in which her orbit crosses                                    was alto
                                                                        (Iif iIt,
gether at loss how and where in the ecliptic (in my scheme)Ia                            ;
to place these intersecting points; this was in the year 1739.

   At last recollected that when .was with Squire Grant
                                                 I
                                                    I
of Achoynauey, in the year 1730, had read, that on the 1st

of January, 1690, the moon's ascending node was on the 10th

minute of the first degree of Aries, and that her nodes moved

backward through the whole ecliptic in 18 years and 224 days,

which at the rate of minutes                                 sec. every 24 hours but
I                                   3               1
  I                                                    1
                                        it
              is
as scarce knew in the year 1730 what the moon's nodes meant,

took no further notice of at that time.

However, in the year 1739, set to work at Inverness, and
                                            I

after tedious calculation of the slow motion of the nodes from
a

Jan. 1690 to Jan. 1740,                 it  appeared to me that                      had re

membered right) the moon's ascending node must be in 23 deg.

25 min. of Cancer, at the beginning of the year 1740; 60 and so

His doctor business being a complete failure, he again directed his attention to
Limning; and, in pursuit of employment, went to Inverness in July 1739.
Ferguson informs us that he had eight months business at nverness. From "King's
Hunimenta         Antiqua" appears      that in                    1    C"atshtele'4D5o,"wneinega(gneeda, r
Inverness),       and the guest of the  famous   1740 Ferguson was        ;at
             is                                  Simon Lord Lovat                   is ;of
                a                                                                          a
no doubt, to paint portraits of the chief, or some of his friends. Ferguson's so                5
                             11 it                                                                        ;
journ at Inverness, therefore, appears to have extended into 1740.
89 This           very simple and ready-at-haud illustration of the relative motions
of the sun and moon, and one which we ourselves adopted in our early days. The
relative conjunctions o! the hour and minute hands, however, do not correspond
with those of the sun and moon during the year. The hour and minute hands
                                    times into conjunction in 12 hours whereas the sun and
of a watch comes only
moon come into conjunction 12 times in the course of 365 days or more cor
rectly, in 12 hours there are exactly 11 conjunctions of the hour and minute
hands; whereas, in 365 -243 the moon comes 12 times into conjunction with
                                    d.
"the sun, and         into the thirteenth conjunction.3
It not now known what process of calculation Ferguson followed in deter
is
            3 i ''s
                             ;
mining the place of the moon's ascending node, on January 1st, 1740, from its posi
                                    He merely informs us     that                     tedious one,
tion on January 1st, 1690.          periods --viz. 18 years   224  the process was   of the nodes,
mid gives us only one of his                                       days, the period
                                                  sec. in 24 hours." This too slow our
which, he says,       at the rate of min.   11
                                                it
calculation gives min. 10§ sec. He does not give us the length of the year he
used in this calculation but we presume             would consist of 365 days hours 48

min. 55 sec., as then generally adopted. Assuming this to be the case, we shall
40 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

I added the eclipse part to my scheme, and so called Tlie As

tronomical Rotula.61

go over the same calculation. It is evident that from January I, 1690, to Janu
=ary 1, 1740, there are exactlv 50 years-- 365d. 5h. 48m. 55s.
=dec. X 50                                                                                                               365 2423,
=18y. 224d.
                   18262 d. 115dec.            In      18 veurs      224 days there       are 6798-5016                  days(foi
                      18-613 years X          365                   6798\r>106d.);       then, 18262(1                   115, the
                                                       "2423 =
days in 50 years -=-6798 5016, the period of the nodes, and it will give 2 686, that
is, from January 1st, 1690, to January 1st, 1740, a period of 50 years. The
                                                        two entire revolutions, and was                                  its way
minooan'tshiradscerendvionlgutionnode:--h2ad68m6 a=de  2 circles 247'' 57 min., and 247"                T\fifo on        reckon
                         10th mill, of                                                                 57 min.,
"ed backward from          Cancer 23°
                                                        1st   d" egtrheies  of Aries,    falls ulx>n   Cancer            23° 13'.
Ferguson makes it                                      25' ;                difference   of 12 min.    between            Fergu
son's result and our own may arise from his peculiar mode of calculation, or from
our own process being worked out with an assumed period of 365d. 5h. 48m. 57s.
or 365 -2423 days. The difference between Ferguson's result and our own is 12' of a
degree, nearly the "quarter of a degree," as noted by Mr. Maclaurin to Ferguson;
but whether the 12' ought to be plus or minus Ferguson's period, we have no means
of ascertaining. Our calculation, however, is sufficiently near, as an illustration,
    shoTwhisho"wAssucthrona ommatictearl mRayoibtelade"teirsmainneedxt;raanorddtinhaartytoporoinduactvieorny.
to                                                                                                              short period.
                                                                                                                  It has been

long out of print, and is now unknown. We have a copy of the engraving                                                    "of the
largest plate of this Rotula ; in the                     lroigwhetr-hlaenftd-hacnodrnecro, rn"erRo.f  which,   we find      Ja>.
Ferguson hit*," and in the lower                                                                       Cooper,   Sculp."     The

large oblong sheet in our possession, and which forms the basis of the Rotula, is,
                                              inches. At the top                         oRfotthuelaeng; "raavnindg,imimn eGdeiramteanly
                                              The Astronomical
"in

or
    engraved surface,    th1e74wobrydsl'-U"
    Church text, are
                                                              states that it shows the place of the sun,
below, in four long running lines, it                         with their distances from one another every
moon, and moons nodes in the ecliptic,
day in the year; the true time of all the eclipses of the sun and moon from 1730 to
1800 inclusive, together  iinth               the figure of         all those that are visible at Edinburgh,
London, and Paris; the    d,ay                of the month,          moon's age and southing, high water at

several ports, equation of time and moveable feasts, rising and setting of the sun at
Edinburgh; the motions, magnitudes, solar distances; hourly velocities, dc. of
the planets ; the differences of time in most remarkable places of the earth, vnth
plain and easy tables for calculating ths true time of new and full moon." Near
the centre of the engraving are a series of 19 concentric circles (diameter of lar
gest circle, 11 5 inches, smallest one, 61 inches ; on these circles are the signs of
the zodiac, degrees, minutes, &c. ; days of month and names of the month, do
                                                                In
minical letter,    "  and other cycle tables.                       the top      right-hand corner are tables for
ascertaining          first day of moon for                   300   years ;      below, rules to find the moon's

coming to south by her age, and the comparative diameters of Saturn and Rings,
M" afrirss,t  and  the Earth and  Moon."                  "Inbethloew,rigthatb-lheantod  "cfoirnnderthaeii:timtabeleosf  for finding
              day  of each month  for ever             ;                                                                 high water
at several ports, with comparative diameters of Venus, Jupiter, Mercury, and a
Comet." In the lower left-hand corner are cycles for fmding new moon ; below,
                                              stehtetinmgeatnablmesot;io"nanodf
is a  cairrecu"larSunta'bslerissinhgowainndg                                      the moon from the sun ;                 under
this                                                                             directly under the scries of             circles

before noticed, is a table of the equation of time, new and full moon in hours,
minutes, &c. ; and in the lower right-hand corner is a dial-plate of 24 hours, tables
    the sun's equation, and cycles                      for finding full moon.           whiScuhch"
of                                                     is one of those things                          is a glance         detail
of  this complicated Rotula. It                                                                        require to         be seen

to be appreciated."      Mr. Cameron of Inverness                           informs      "usTothathte  there is a complete
Rotula in Culloden       House, having on the back                           of it --                   High! Honourable

Duncan Forbes of Cullodcn, Lord President of the College of Justice, this Astro
nomical Rotula is, with profound respect, inscribed, by his Lordship's most obe
                                                       MrJa. mCeasmeFroenr,gusomne."ntionTsh, isthcaot m"pltehties
dient, and         most  humble servant,                                                                                 Rotula      is
mounted.           Our   correspondent,                                                                                  Rotula      is
suspended on the wall of                      the great hall                                                                    "in
rosewood frame, gilt edged.                     It is worked  of Culloden Castle, is glazed,                             and         a
                                                              at the back by wooden, knobs or                            keys.
                                                                                                                                     It
is remarkable that this Rotula should have been dedicated to Duncan Forbes,
F,sq., instead of Trofessor Maclaurin, who had done so much to bring it out.
                                            LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                                                +1

I1740. -- When I had finished it showed it to the Reverend

Mr. Alexander MacBean, one of the ministers at Inverness,82

who told me he had a set of almanacs by him for several years

past, and would examine it by the eclipses mentioned in them.

We examined it together, and found that it agreed throughout
with the days of all the new and full moons and eclipses men

Itioned in these- almanacs, which made me think had con

structed it upon true astronomical principles. On this, Mr.

MacBean desired me to write to Mr. Maclaurin, professor of the

Mathematics, at Edinburgh, and give him an account of the

Imethods by which had formed my plan, requesting him to

Icorrect it where it was wrong.                               He returned me a most polite
                                                              had never seen him during my
and friendly answer (although
Istay at Edinburgh), and informed me that had only mistaken

the radical mean place of the ascending node by a quarter of a

Idegree, and that if would send the drawing of my Rotula to

him he would examine and endeavour to procure for me a
                                                   it,

                                                        it

                                                             it.

                                                           I
subscription to defray the charges of engraving on copper
                                                                                                        of
plates,   iIf  choosed to publish                                 then made a new and cor
                                                                                                          it
rect drawing of and sent to him, who soon got me a very
                                        it                                                                                     a

P"aTshsieblyRigFhertguHsoonnourmaabyle      have   offered to dedicate  it     to him, mid have                                   ofsuggested
                                              the  Lord President of the     College of Justice,"       as name

of greater influence.                              of his pamphlet,          entitled,                  " The use of a new
   On the back of the title-page
          toputbhliissheRdotuablaou--t "AuTghuest,Ast1r7o4n(io, mwicealfindRothteulafo,lloswhionwgingadvtheertipsleamceent
Orrery,"
relative
the sun, moon, and moon's nodes in the ecliptic,
another every day in the year the true times                               tahwlelitfhitghuetrheeescilripsdeissatalloncfthetoshseefrstouhmnat   one
moon, from 1730 to 1800 inclusive, together with
of                                                                                                                                             and
         of                                                                                                                                     are

                                of ;

                                                                     ;
                                                                          ;

                                                             of
visible at London, Edinburgh, and Paris the motions, magnitudes, solar dis
tances, hourly velocities, <bc. all the planets plain and easy astronomical tables,
never before published, for calculating the true time of new and full moon; the

hour tiie day or night in most remarkable places of the earth, having the time
at any one     them given; with several other problems, as shown by a printed
direction belonging to this scheme. Price Five shillings."
61 The Reverend Alexander Macbean died at Inverness on the 2d November

1762, aged 78 years. We are indebted to Mr. James Cameron, Inverness, for the

--foll"owUinngderinnesacrtihpttihonis,    copied   from his   grave-stone in the   parish churchyard there
                                        stone arc  deposited   the remains of the  Reverend Mr. lejcander
                                                            of
                                                                                           it

                                                                                                      is
                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                :
Macbean, who died on the 'Id day November 1762, aged 78 years, and. in the
fiftieth year of his ministry, the last forty-two of which was at Inverness. Here
are also deposited the remains of Marjory Macbean, his spouse, who died March
30tA, 1766, aged 86 years." From this inscription,                                 evident that he was

inducted one of the ministers of Inverness in 1720, when in the 36th year of his

age. At the time of Ferguson's visit to him, in 1739, he would bo about 55 years
old. He therefore lived through the greater part of Ferguson's lite-time, and
would hear of his celebrity                 aasndanoaf uhthisorM, aajensdtyp, ubOleicorgleectIuIIr.e,r   on Astronomy
Experimental Philosophy                                                                                 having bestowed                        and
a                                                                                                                                                on
                                        ;

                                                  F
him yearly pension of £50.
42 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

handsome subscription by setting the example himself and

sending subscription papers to others.63

  I1741. -- then returned to Edinburgh 64 and had the Rotula

plates engraved there by Mr. Cooper.65 It has gone through

several impressions, and always sold very well, till the year
1752, when the style was changed, which rendered it quite

useless. Mr. Maclaurin received me with the greatest civility

Iwhen first went to see him at Edinburgh ; he then became an

exceeding good friend to me, and continued so till his death.
IIOne day requested him to show me his orrery, which he
immediately did.                 was greatly delighted with the motions of

it
            it
                             it,

                                                      it,

                                    I
the earth and moon in and would gladly have seen the wheel-

work, which was concealed in a brass box, and the box and

planets above were surmounted by an armillary sphere; but he

told me that he had never opened            and could easily perceive

that could not be opened but by the hand of some ingenious

clock-maker, and not without a great deal of time and trouble.66

63 Mr. Colin Maclaurin, one of the most accomplished mathematicians of his
day, was horn at Kihnoddan, in Argyleshire, in 1698 (of which narish his father
was the minister). On the recommendation of Sir Isaac Newton, ne was, in 1725,
appointed Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy in the University of
Edinburgh. He had small Observatory erected on the south side of the old
College, Edinburgh, furnished with valuable instruments. He was the author ofa
the following works: -- 1st, Geometries Orgauica, sive Descripto Linearnm Cur-1;
varum Universalis, 1720 2d, On the Percussion of Kodies, 1724 3d, Treatise
on Fluxions, 740; 4th, An Account of Sir Isaac Newton's Philosophical Discover
                  1                                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                                                     is
ies. He was also the author of several philosophical tracts and papers. He died
suddenly (of dropsy) on 4th July, 1746, in the 49th year of his age, and was                                                                         it is A
interred in Grevl'riars churchyard, Edinburgh. Mr. Maclaurin thus died in the
prime of life, and before Ferguson had risen to any celebrity.                                                                                                54
U4 By reference to our memoranda,           appears that Ferguson returned to Edin                                                                                   3| ;
                                        it

burgh early in the spring of 1742. His age at this period would be 32 years.
e» David Idling, Esq., LL.D., of the Signet Library, Edinburgh, informs us
that "Mr. Richard Cooper was native of Yorkshire, England, and practised many
                                     a

years in Edinburgh as an engraver and copper-plate prmter, *c., and resided in
St. John's Street, Canongate, Edinburgh. The time of his death we have not
                     He was alive in 1761. He was interred in the Canongate church
ascertained.

yard. Cooper was     atthhvaeat rtyti"meemCoihonpiesenratptpeeranesngtrmiaceavseler".r"(StoirFtehRregojbuuessorttlny,Stcriaennlegbaerf)ao.toetd-nBoMetserid. eRsinobeehnrits
Memoir, informs us,
Strange, who was at
graving Ferguson's Astronomical Rotula plates, he about the same time appears
to have engraved another plate for him, now long out of print, and very rare
we have an impression of in our possession the print on the card
                               ;                                                                                                               by
                                    it                                                                                                         the month,

                                                       is                                                                                      latitudes in
                                                            is                                                                                 with hours,
                                                               a

                                                                         is ;
                                                                                      a
inches  is ;the   upper part     odf"irtheAecttltcyhaerdufnodotertawkehnsicohrutpofwasietthrmiaincgisruccalualleraro"sf usdncaa-ydlseiaool,ff
signs of     the  zodiac, &c.
            from
degrees            the equator.
minutes,      l"inJeasm, easndFehragsussocanl,esDcfolrinr.e;ct"ifiacnadtioinnst,h&e cr.i,gahtt-thhaensdidecso.rneIrn,                        t"heRl.eCfto-hopaenrd,
corner

Sculp."
        The Secretary of the University of Edinburgh (Alexander Smith, Esq.), in
forms us, that this orrery not now in his University. Probably was the
                                 is

private property of Mr. Maclaurin, and removed at the time of his death, in 1746.
                            LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                     43

I IAfter a good deal of thinking and calculation found that

could contrive the wheel- work for turning the planets in such

Ia machine, and giving them their progressive motions ; but

should be very well satisfied if could make an orrery to show

the motions of the earth and moon, and of the sun round its
Iaxis.
          then employed a turner to make a sufficient number of
Iwheels and axles, according to patterns which gave him in

Idrawing ; and after having cut the teeth in the wheels by a

knife, and put the whole together, found that it answered all

my expectations. It showed the sun's motion round his axis ;

the diurnal and annual motions of the earth on its inclined axis,

which kept its parallelism in its whole course round the sun ;

the motions and phases of the moon, with the retrograde motion

of the nodes of her orbit ; and consequently, all the variety of

seasons, the different lengths of days and nights ; the days of

the new and full moons and eclipses."7
   1742. ---When it was all completed, except the box that covers

Ithe wheels, showed it to Mr. Maclaurin, who commended
                                              it,
                                                   it,
                                                                              it

                                                                                                        it,
in presence of a great many young gentlemen who attended his

From Ferguson's description of                would seem that was something similar
to those excellent  orreries  constructed     by Rowley and by Wright, during the
early part of last  century.    Sir John      Herschel, in his Astronomy (Cabinet

Library), writes unfavourably of orreries, planetaria, &c., apparently, because
they could not be made to show the comparative masses and distances of the
planets but surely the great many other excellences in an orrery far outweigh
these two objections. We understand that, in consequence of his opinion, theis ;
demand for orreries, &c., has very much declined. We regret this, for, with all
due deference to Sir John, we think that an orrery          of great  use -- great first aid
to the untutored. It not every one that horn               to be an   astronomer perhaps
                    a                         is                      a
                       is                                is                      ;

                                           a
not one in a thousand can form proper conception of the motions of our planet
ary system. With very great many, the eye requires to be taught before the
mind and we would therefore strongly advise the young and the unlearned in
It ;astronomy, to go to an orrery and see its several beautiful motions. More may
he gained by the sight in an hour, than by the study of hooks in year. The
                                                                      a

motions in Maclaurin's orrery gave Ferguson intense delight and satisfaction.
The sight of in motion materially aided him in his after studies.
          it

67 to be regretted that Ferguson has given no account of the wheel-work

of this, his first orrery.    would have been interesting now to have known by
                    is

                            It
                                          it
what process of calculation he got his numbers for the teeth of his wheels and
pinions. As this        not known,            cannot now be shown with what degree of

accuracy the several motions were produced. We are inclined to think that           it

was rude piece of work, and made not for correct motions, but merely to show
a

them; probably contenting himself with the earth turning on its axis in 24 hours,
and completing a revolution round the sun in 'AS5\ days, the synodic revolution
of the moon in 294 ilays, and the nodes of her orbit in 19 years. Thus, by dis
carding minutes and seconds, ho would be able to make simple orrery at little
                                                             a

trouble and expense. We may here note, that to produce the parallelism of the
earth's axis, and the retrograde motion of the nodes of the moon's orbit, shows
                                                                      of the theory and
that Ferguson, at this  early period, had an intimate knowledge
practice of wheel-work  (perhaps receiving some assistance from       Derham's "Arti

ficial Clockmaker," 3d edit. Lond., 1714).
44 A SHOUT ACCOUNT OF THE

lectures. He desired me to read them a lecture on which
                    I

                                 it

                                      I
                                                                                           it,
                                                                    I
did without any hesitation, seeing had no reason to be afraid

of speaking before a great and good man who was my friend.6s

Soon after that sent in a present to the Reverend and in

genious Mr. Alexander Irvine, one of the ministers at Elgin, in

Scotland/9

   1743.-- then made a smaller and neater Orrery, of which
           I
                   I
all the wheels were of ivory, and cut the teeth in them with
                                                                 it

                                                                      I
                                                                                  I

                                                                                                            it ;
a file. This was done in the beginning of the year 1743 and

in May that year brought with me to London, where was

soon after bought by Sir Dudley Rider.70                                                                                                         have made six

   6s This lecture, on his wooden orrery, appears to have been delivered by him
in the old College of Edinburgh, in the spring of the year 1742, when in the 32d
year of his age. Notwithstanding the celebrated Maclaurin being his friend,
                                                                        a
                                                                                        is
                                                                                                                     a

                                                                                                                              it
would require from Ferguson some considerable amount of confidence and self-
possession to bear him through with this his first public lecture.
   69 The Keverend Alexander Irvine was learned, ingenious, and most amiable
man. For great length of time he was Presbytery clerk of Elgin district. He
   1a
              a
wrote small but clear and beautiful hand, as shown by his entries in the
Elgin Presbytery Records. His favourite study was astronomy. On February
   8th, 736 -7, he made preparations for observing the annular eclipse of the sun, but
1

was prevented, by clouds, from seeing the annulus for above half minute. He,
however, sent memorandum regarding what he did sec, to the celebrated Pro
                 a

if"nessAseotrrteEdMlgaicnlainuthrteinhe,ecPlaihptisloeEsdowipnahsbiucoragbl hse,Trvreadwnshaoac,ntinoaunlolsanrgasawftoitl3hlo6hw.ost:h2--e9'r,it notices of the eclipse,
                                                                                                                                                 1736-7, February 18th.

                                                                                                                                                  the larger part of the
ring uppermost, by the Keverend Mr. Irvine, who had view of for about 30",
                                                                            p.                                                                                or end of
                                                                                  a                                                                           contrived

                                                                                               a it
but by reason of    i"nt(evrivdeenPinhgil.   clouds              could   not determine the beginning
this appearance                               Trans.              Ab.,  vol. 8th, 147). Mr. Irvine
                 ;

various pieces of astronomical mechanism, and also constructed wooden clock,
which hits been long in the possession of the Rev. Peter Merson, at Elgin. No
traces of the wooden orrery sent to him by Ferguson can now be found.
   The Rev. Dr. Francis Wylie, of Elgin, informs us, that Mr. Irvine was ordained
at St. Andrews (Lanbryde), the parish next to Elgin on the east, on the 1st March
   725. From this charge he was translated to that of Auldearn, in the Presbytery
1

    it

         8
                               a
                                                is
                                                           is ;
of Nairn, on 7th January 1731 from which he was translated to the Collegiate
charge of Elgin, on 12th August 1735, and died on the 22d December 1758 and,
as would appear, in the 59th year of his age. From this                                                                                                       ;obvious that he
                                                                                                                                                 2§                    ;
was an ordained minister for nearly 34 years, and was minister of Elgin 23 years
and months. He corresponded with Ferguson until shortly before his death.                                                                          it
Ferguson wrote long and mteresting letter to him from London, dated London,
17th January 1758 (sec date 1758), about 11 months before Mr. Irvine's death                                                                              is
the original letter of Ferguson preserved, and may be seen in the Elgin museum.
Thus this  amiable    awnodrki,ng"enAisotursonogmenytleEmxpalnaindeide,d    about                                                                             after Ferguson
published  his great                                                        upon Sir                                                             years
                                                                                                                                                 Isaac        Newton's Prin

ciples," &c., and just as Ferguson was rising into celebrity.
   7* This small orrery still in existence, now the property of Sir Dudley
                                                                        is

Ryder's descendant, the Right Honourable the Earl of Harrowby, and to be
                                                                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                                                                      is

                                                                                                                                                                                  is
seen at his Lordship's residence, Sandon Hull, Staffordshire. The Honourable
Henry I). Ryder (his Lordship's son) informs us, that this orrery was much
damaged by the fire which destroyed Sandon Hall, on June 6th, 1848 "that the
works of this orrery arc enclosed within a mahogany box that the horizon and
                                                                            ;
                                                                                  ;
other cilides on are papered and filled up by the pen that the horizon circle
   it
                       it

                           it

                                         is
about 16 inches in diameter, and that there are neither initials nor date anywhere
on to be found --                            not known what Sir Dudley Ryder paid for it." Sir
                 LIFE OF THK AUTHOR.

Orreries since that time, and there are not two of them in

Iwhich the wheel-work is alike ; for could never bear to copy
Ione thing of that kind from another, because still saw there

was great room for improvements.71

  I had a letter of recommendation from Mr. Baron Edlin,72 at

Dudley Ryder, Lord Chief Justice of England, died 25th May 1756.                                                         " A patent
was preparing to create him a Peer, by the title of Lord Ryder of Harrowby, Lin
colnshire ; he had not kissed his Majesty's hand as was reported." Vide Ben
jamin Martin's Miscellaneous Correspondence, vol. 1st, p. 306.
Ferguson here mentions that he arrived in London in May 1743. Referring to
our memoranda, we think it is evident that he and his wife sailed from Leith for
London, in a Leith smack, on Saturday 21st May, arriving in London on Fri

day 27th May 1743. (See note 102).
   71 We. apprehend that Ferguson alludes to the arrangement of the wheel-work,
rather than to new calculations for wheels to produce more accurate periods, as
during his lifetime he used 365d. 5h. 48' 55" average, as his value of the length
of a year ; and  wtoheperlosd--ucveiz.                                                 Camus's fraction                   for his
annual train of                                 this,    he  continually adopted       58"78 (error 3f                   seconds
                                                  ^x
                                                       X^    x/J=365d. 5h. 48'
plus). In the year 1826, we made a set of new calculations for an orrery which
rwaetiocso,nswteruocbtetadin;eadntdhebyfoflloolwloiwngingfraactpioencsul--iarvizm. o/djeX4in;JXw^or=kin3g65odu.t  our continuous
                                                                                                                    5h. 48' 55" '38,
(error -ftfo of a second only). It is surprising that Ferguson adhered so firmly to
Camus's fraction, never trying to get more accurate wheel-work. Had he, by
calculation, come upon our fractional ratio, and adopted it, he would have got a
period, for his solar year, within the third part of a second of the then ascertained
lbeyng"thcoonftinthueouyseafrra; ctbiount si"t  is likely that the method of obtaining                            accurate ratios
                                                  as applicable to wheel -work, was not                           known in Fer

guson's time.
   We have succeeded in tracing out four of Ferguson's orreries ; 1st, The orrery
sold in 1743 to Sir Dudley Ryder, is now the property of his descendant,
the Right Honourable the Earl of Harrowby, Sandon Hall, Staffordshire ; 2ii,
FSehrogrutlsyon,aftnear mFeedrguhsisonh'sousdeeat"h,Thine    1777, a London                              an admirer of
                                                             Ferguson's Head,          p'ubwlhicearen,  there was long

to be seen one of Ferguson's large wooden orreries, which the publican had pur
chased at Ferguson's sale in 1777. (Our late friend, Mr. Andrew Reid of Lon
don, brother of Mr. Thomas Reid, watchmaker, Edinburgh, who had seen this
orrery in 1787, was our informant ; also, see London Mirror, vol. 29th, No. 822,

p. 128, for 1832). Mr. Bartlett, watchmaker, Maidstone, discovered this orrery,
m 1836, in an old curiosity shop in Old Compton Street, London, and purchased
it for £3. He (Mr. B. ) presented it to the Manchester League Bazaar, where it was
sold to some person unknown ; 3d, At the sale of Mr. Thomas Hawys' Mathe
matical          Philosophical Instruments,
was sold  a"nda  large orrery with glass shade,              on Tuesday, 13th October                                    1807,    there
                                                              made by Ferguson," -- vide                                  cat.  of this

sale. This orrery appears to have got into the possession of the late Professor
Millington, about the year 1818 ; 4th, In the University of London there is one
of Ferguson's orreries, which was                      --prveidseentaepdpetondtihxi,s                                    June
by George Walker, of Port Louis,                                                       aUrntiicvleersi"tyOornre2r7yt.h"         1851,

   72 Regarding Mr. Baron Edliu,                       we are much      "inIdnebttheed         to  Robert Cox,                  Esq.,
W.S., Edinburgh, for the following                     particulars: --                       MS.   ' Register of                Privy
Seals Sign Manuals,' kept in the Exchequer office, Edinburgh, vol. 2d, p. 250,
the Commission or Letters patent, dated 17th August 1730, appointing Edward
Edlin, Esq., a Baron of the Exchequer, in place of Edmund Miller, Esq., deceas
ed ; also, a warrant dated 5th October 1730, authorizing the payment to him of
£500 a-year, in addition to the £500 payable under the Commission, or Letters
Patent, in consideration of his leaving his practice of the law in this part of the
                 e. London), to attend our service, and for other good causes
United Kingdom   ; (i.
                                          is

                                                                '
                                                                            is
                                                                                          a
and considerations this warrant signed R. Walpole, W"'. Yonge, Win. Clay
ton.' In vol. 4th, p. 282 of the same register, there
                                                                                             commission dated 29t.h
46 A SHOKT ACCOUNT OF THE

Edinburgh, to the Right Honourable Stephen Poyntz, Esq., at
St. James's, who had been preceptor to his Royal Highness the
late Duke of Cumberland, and was well known to be possessed
of all the good qualities that can adorn a human mind. To me

Ihis goodness was really beyond my power of expression ; and

had not been a month in London till he informed me that he

had wrote to an eminent Professor of Mathematics to take me
into his house, and give me board and lodging, with all proper
instructions to qualify me for teaching a Mathematical School
he (Mr. Poyntz) had in view for me, and would get me settled
in This should have liked very well, especially as began
to be tired of drawing pictures, in which, confess, never
strove to excel, because my mind was still pursuing things more
agreeable. He soon after told me that he had just received an
answer from the Mathematical Master, desiring might be sent
immediately to him. On hearing this, told Mr. Poyntz that

   did not know how to maintain my wife during the time
I

        it.

            I
                                              I

                                                   I
                                                      I

                                                          II

                                                                             I

          Mrs. Ferguson. -- From a Fainting on Vellum
             ?                                                   Ferguson.

              I
                           I

                                                       it
                                                                 it
                                                                     is bj
                                                                                    a'
                                                                                                                    '
must be under the master's tuition. What, says he, are you a

married man  told him had been so ever since May in the

May 1761, to George Winn, of Lincolns Inn, F.sq., ns Raron. in place of Edward
Edfin, deceased. From another register appeared that Baron Edlin's widow
petitioned, after his death, for his   salary, down to    10th December 1760, which
thus appear! to have heen the date                        not the stuted |ieriod of
paying salaries. He had executed,     of his decease, as  1758,  writing by which
she had right to receive sums due                         F.dlin was of Lincoln's Inn,
                                      ou 22d November
                                       to him. Baron

London."
                              LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                                      47

year 1739. He said he was sorry for
                        I
                                  ;
                                              I
                                                                     it,
                                                                                       it
                                                                                                                                         ?
                                                                          I
                                                                                          because quite de

feated his scheme as the master of the school he had in view

for me must be a bachelor.73

He then asked me what business intended to follow

answered that knew of none besides that of drawing pictures.

On this he desired me to draw the pictures of his lady and chil-

  '3 It appears singular that " luyw to maintain his wife during the lime he vmdd

require to be under thc master's tuition," did not occur to him at that interview
with Mr. Poyntz, when he had been informed of what had been done. Probably
in the interval, and before this visit, he had been talking the matter over with
his wife, when this difficulty would be likely to suggest itself, and first raised
at this visit. Mathematics was by no means in Ferguson's way, he would have been                                       :
out of his element in such school in short, he would not have been successful in                                           ;
                              of a                                                                      his writings --
                                               ;                               his wife only twice in   In his Memoir,       it
                                                                               96, 130; and 2dly,
                                                                            p.
viz(.se1esta, lsIon Ahpipse"ndEixle).ctricFietyrg, uso1n770a,ll"udaertsictleo
itas here noted, 1773.       Relative to       F"erKgeuisthon'PsamroacrhriiaagleR, eMcorr.d,R"obtheret  Sim, of Keith,
has kindly extracted        for us, from                                                                following --
          a" Keith, 1739, April 28. James Ferguson in this parish, and Isabel Wil
           son in the parish     Orange, were matrimonially contracted at Orange,
           as a                           bears, and  being orderlie                      proclaimed    with
           were  testimony    therefrom  May ultimo   1739."                                                  us
                 married    at Orange

The Reverend Mr. James Allan, present minister of Grange, has kindly sent us

-the following extracts relative to tergusou's marriage, from his Parish Register:
           " Grange,
                        April 27th. James Ferguson                             in  the parish of Keith  awl Isa
           bel Wilson   in this parish, were contracted                        in  order to marriage, it ,and
           the ordinar  proclamation banns were married at Orange the                                   314  aMftaeyr
                              is a                                                                             ;
                                           of                                                                            is
            1739 years.'

The Rev. Mr. Allan, in letter to us, mentions that " the name James Ferguson,"
in the marriage entry, written down in extraordinarily large writing letters at
least quarter of an inch in size, and that there nothing like
                                                                                   is                   in the Grange

Register, which      appears to  indicate,     that the Grange                         Session-Clerk of that day had
considered him                       note."    He also informs                         us that "the Reverend James
                    as "a man    of

Murray was minister of Grange from 1700 to 1741, and that, therefore, there no
doubt he officiated on the occasion." (Letter from Rev. James Allan, Minister of

cGvRaierzlav.len.dg"MeGI)rs..eaobAregMllela!r:.nW--FaiellWssrogoitnunsseeosinnsnde'sssC, awthnJioetfelhy,enxIhstSraaaabdcnetdlalioaefdsWaohneuil,rsrobibnnier,thhKwi,esaitfswhro,ibfme--ornGERhrooabInineergt2te4GBtBhrraaepnD.mtteisncmbecamrptihRinseeerdcMo1ar7ad1inn9--ds.

of Grange, -- Isobell Murray in Cantly, Isobcll Guides in Nether Ilaughs,
and Isabel Grant, Dec. Uth 1719." She was therefore about 10 years younger
than Ferguson. She was the second daughter of George Wilson of Cantly.
We annex an engraving of Mrs. Ferguson, taken from the original mini
ature one in Indian ink, by Ferguson, her husband, about the year 1749-50,
when she was in her 30th year. John Ferguson, Esq., the youngest son
                                         in careful keeping until shortly before his death
of the astronomer, had        it it    to the eldest of the two Misses Moir, with whom

in 1833, when he gave
he had so long resided. Some time before her death, Miss M. gave                                                       to her
                                                                                                   2}
relative, Mrs. Gordon,                                                                                     is

Windmill Street, Edinburgh, in whose possession                                                              \is it

                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                        now is, and to whose Kind
                                                                               $4

                                                                                   it
                                                                                        3J
ness, along with that of James L. Rutherfurd, Esq., 10 Windmill Street,
                             indebted   for    photograph from                     it.    The original finely done
Edinburgh,          we are  within     small   oblong frame,                       by        inches -- broad front and
in Indian                                   a
                 ink --                               is
                    is        a                                is

roughly      gilt.     In the middle there an                    oval opening              34 by        inches,  with
sloping      ogee   to the portrait --the portrait                 seen m this            oval. The     frame       inch

thick mahogany, but perhaps an outer frame enclosed this small one. We have
had several photographs, of various sizes, taken from                                   it,  from one of which our

engraving of Mrs. Ferguson has been taken. (See page 46).
4!S A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

Idreri, that he might show them, in order to recommend me to
others; and told me, that when I was out of business, should

come to him, and he would find me as much as he could : and

II soon found as much as could execute ; but he died in a few

years after, to my inexpressible grief.74
   Soon afterward it appeared to me that although the moon

goes round the earth, and that the sun is far on the outside of
the moon's orbit, yet, the moon's motion must be in a line that
is always concave toward the sun ; and upon making a delinea-

                   TraIectorium Lunare, 1744.

tion, representing her absolute path in the heavens, I found it
to be really so. I then made a simple machine for delineating

both her path and the earth's, on a long paper laid on the floor.75

"4 The Right Honourable Sir Stephen Poyntz, formerly preceptor to the Duke
of Cumberland, and a Privy Counsellor, died on the 17th December 1750, and
supposed to have been then about the 65th year of his age (vide Gentleman's Maga
zine, vol. xx. p. 570). His Royal pupil, William, Duke of Cumberland (of
Culloden renown), was born in London, 15th April 1721, and died very sud
denly by the bursting of a blortd-vessel in the head, at his house in upper
Grosvenor Street, London, on 31st October 1765, aged 45.
75 At the request of Martin Fo|kes, Esq., President of the Royal Society, Fer
guson published a large copper-plate engraving of the curve generated by hisTra-
jectorium Lunare. This plate has been long out of print, and is exceedingly
scarce. We have had an exact copy taken from the one deposited in the British
Museum (No. 4*Jj f. 7). The engraving is on a slip of paper, occupying a space
of 2 feet 10| inches in length, by 6J inches in breadth. The curve in the engrav
ing shows   the imaginary curve of the moon for upwards of a lunation, and in
two lines,  running the whole length of the paper at the top, are as follows :--
y y'* The lint delineated which

somewhat more than a month,
                   moon descrihes               in  if heavens,            during       time of
                   showing that               her   real path u             constantly   curved
y ytowards
            sun. The dotted line represents a portion of                   earth's annual orbit
y yround sun, considered as a circle, numerical figures shmring its motion from
ywest to east, every day for 34 days, accounted from  time of any particular new
ymoon.
yparent
 The        black  line representi moon's     iftrsueevepraal thsminalylt  heavens, whilst her ap
orbit       about       earth, ceprcssctl by                               circles, is itself carried
                             LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                                49

I carried the machine and delineation to the late Martin Folkes,

Esquire, President of the Royal Society,76 on a Thursday after

noon. He expressed great satisfaction at seeing
                    I
                                                                                     it,
                                                                                it
                                                                                                           a
                                                                                     as was

new discovery, and took me that evening with him to the Royal

Society, where           showed the delineation, and the method of

doing it.77

When the business of the Society was over, one of the mem

bers desired me to dine with him next Saturday, at Hackney,
telling me that his name was Ellicott, and that he was a watch

maker.

      accordingly went to Hackney, and was kindly received by
Mr. John Ellicott, who then showed me the very same kind of
I
delineation, and part of the machine by which he had done                                                       it
        is it,
                  ittelling me that he had thought of twenty years before.                                         ;
could easily see by the colour of the paper, and of the ink lines
                                    of                     I it                                                 I
                                            ofupon that must have been done many years before saw
it. He then told me, what was very certain, that he had neither                              I
stolen the thought from me nor had from him. And from that

y yby earth round sun. Note, that the radius the earth's orbit in the.
                                                                     of
yscheme of 81 such parts as annexed scale containeth nine, every one which
y y ysupposed to answer to a milium                                                  is
                                                miles in heavens;
                                                                                           of
                                                                                              of

                                                                                                          is
y yparent orbit about                                                      radius of moon's ap
                         earth, or her constant distance from same ^5 one of
y y y y ylahsosefeoalrlpotahwrftsrs:o, --man"swMesaurrinnt,ignantFodolk24e0s,,00Em0soqo.mn, iPlferrose,msidwehnictehaortfhR. oa"ygraelTehaSbeoleceienttygo,ravthintirsgu,pelaadttiesftoaionstc,edehdaoi*fis

cated by his most humble servant, James Ferguson. Published June 26th, 1745,
according to act of Parliament." On each side of this dedication are explanations
of the moon's motion on the curve which occupies the centre part of the engrav
        In letter written                                           Thomas Birch,    D. D.,
ing.    Society, he says,a   "bMy yFesrcghuesmoen   to   the Kev.    path, on large  paper,  Secretary
Koyal                                                   the moon's                              sold by
                                              a    of
                                                                  a
                                                                              ;

                                                                         of
                                                                                 it a

                                                                                                            is
Mr. Senex, at the Globe, opposite St. Dunslan's Church, Fleet Street: Price Is. 6d."

After Ferguson published this moon's-path engraving, great many ingenious
men came forward to claim the discovery as theirs and from one of Ferguson's
                    evident that he was charged with having "pirated" the invention
letters,  it  ; is

from the "Gentleman's Magazine." Mr. Ellicott, in his interview with Fergu
son, at Hackney, mentions, that he "had thought                            twenty years before" or
about 7"24 and a Mr. Badder published diagram of the moon's path, in
        1
           1
August, 74*2, three years before Ferguson published his delineation. As all such
discoveries were unknown to Ferguson, his had all the merits of an original in
vention or                                  annex cut   of the   Trajectorium Lunare, taken from
Plate 7th     odfisc"oFveerrgyu. sonA'Vse  Astronomy."     (See  description of the "Trajectorium

Lunare," under date 1744, with Ferguson's letter to Rev. Thomas Birch regard
it,
ing and Badder's lunar curve).
pu7b6lisMheadrtin"  Folkes, Esq., President        of the Royal      Society at this period, in 1745
                    Tables of English Silver        Coins, from       the Norman Conquest to the

present time, with their weights and intrinsic values," illustrated by plates, on
which are engraved "facsimiles of 1,000 different coins." He died in the year
175n4,   aged 64.
                         we  are           informed,    the apartments of  the  Royal  Society                  were
        At this period,
in Crane Court, Fleet Street, London, and that their day of meeting, whilst in

session, was on Thursdays, at o'clock in the evening.
                                           8

                                                        G
50 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

time, till his death, Mr. Ellicott was one of my best friends.7s

The figure of this machine and delineation is in the 7th Plate

Iof 1m7y44b. o--okSooofnAsatrfotenromtyh.e79 style was changed                 had my Rotula

new engraved, but have neglected it too much by not fitting it

up and advertising it.s0 After this, I drew out a scheme and

had it engraved, for showing all the problems of the Rotula,

except the eclipses ; and in place of that, it shows the times of

rising and setting of the sun, moon, and stars, and the positions

of  the stars for any time of the                     night.s1
                                                      published
    1747. --In the year 1747 I                                       a Dissertation                                                                                    on  the

Phenomena of the Harvest Moon, with the description of a new

orrery, in which there are only four wheels.s2 But having never

    7s John Ellicott, F. U.S., the celebrated watch aml clock maker, London,
                                                                    Journal,
was born   about   "  the  year 1700.            The Hnrological  in 1726 ; "  vol.   i. pp. 152--154,
mentions,  that       he   married a         Miss Saunderson,                  that
                                                                                      "he had a singu
larly handsome countenance, conveying the idea of mingled intelligence and
firmness ; that he was elected u Fellow of the Royal Society in 173S; and that he
died suddenly in 1772, aged 72, having dropped from his chair and instantly ex
pired. In addition to his English business, he had considerable dealings in Spain,
probably arising from his intimacy with a Spanish Envoy, fond of scientific pur
suits." He    read several papers before               the members of the Royal Society,                                                                                and was
the author    of the following works :                -- Essays toward discovering the                                                                                 Laws of
Electricity, 1748, Is. Description of two methods by which the irregularities in
the motion of a Clock, arising from Heat and Cold on the Pendulum, may be
prevented, with a Collection of Papers on the same subject. Plates, 60 pages quarto,
3s. 6d. : London, 1753. Account of the influence which two Pendulum Clocks had
upon each other.    Plates, Is. 6d.            Mr. Ellicott's shop is said     to have been in Corn
hill, London.      His house was             at Hackney, then a village,
M. Paul's, now forming part of the great metropolis.                           about 3 miles NE of

    7* As Ferguson's Astronomy is out of print, we give a reduced view of the
Trajeetorium Lunarie, taken from the 7th Plate. The figure of the Trajeetorium
on this plate is 12 inches in length.
    s0 The style was altered in 1752. We              have two        Almanacs of that      date -- viz.
"   Parker's Ephemeris," and the Almanac              by Tycho       Wing. Turning         to Parker's

dA"aTlmyh,aenhaeocl,dsaysastn,ydle"teotnhedSseo--pldttohsmetgbleneer cwe3adssteyswleheebrefeing,di"nsaa;n"bdlaatnhnkednsinptahceWe,in3dgin'sSewAphltmiecmahnbaeicsr,,  inserted,

                                                                                                                                                                        on same
                                                                                                                                                                        1752, in

both Almanacs, at one jump, was called the 14th September, and as a matter of
course, Ferguson's Rotulas would, in consequence, be "rendered quite useless,"
                   it,
"as he                    itas  was        p"utare11   days out of date.
    s1  expresses                         ,Rotulas    now nearly unknown,
                                                                           having been out of print
        These Stellar

for at least 80 years. We possess one                 ;           12 inches in diameter has move
                                                                                      ;
                                                         of it                                    3
                                                              is                                           is
able circles, on which are engraved the day of the month, signs of the zodiac,
hour and minute circles, &c. with an opening in the upper circle, in which
seen the stars visible at London. This appears to have been published in 1753.
London Price 5s. 6d.
   si This work has been out of print for upwards of hundred years, and
        :                                                         a                        is                                                                              now
                                                                        a                             is
exceedingly scarce. After many years' search for copy of we lately succeededof ; it,
in obtaining one. It a small                                      of 72 pages,        and  in two sec
tions. Its title-page runs thus              octavo   pamphlet
                           by is             --
                                            :
    "A Dissertation upon the Phenomena the Harvest Moon also, the Description
and Use a New Four-Whcclal Orrery, and an Essay upon, the Moons turning
round her own Axis, James Ferguson. London Printed for the Author, and
                                                                  :
                                   LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                          51

had grammatical education, nor time to study the rules of just

I Icomposition, acknowledge that was afraid to put it to the
Ipress ; and for the same cause, ought to have the same fears

still M But having the pleasure to find that this, my first work,

was not ill received,s4 I was emboldened to go on in publishing

my Astronomy ; Mechanical Lectures ; Tables and Tracts rela
tive to several Arts and Sciences ; The Young Gentleman and

Lady's Astronomy; a small Treatise on Electricity, and the

Ifollowing sheets.s5                                 ventured to read lectures on the

   1748. -- In the year 1748

eclipse of the sun that fell on the 14th of July in that year.s6

sold by J. Nourse, at the Lamb, facing Katharine Street, and by S. Patcrson,
at Shakespear's Head, opposite to Durham Yard, Booksellers, both in the Strand.
MDLX'XLVIl."
This small work was published in July, 1747. Prom an advertisement in a
London newspaper, of 1747, we fiud that the price of this work was Is. 6d. (vide
Gentleman's Magazine for July,                        vol. 17, p. 348).  TOhrerreeryar;e"  3 folding-plates
in it. The 1st, an exterior view          1o7t 47",  The Four-Wheeled                      but no descrip

tion of the wheel-work in the letterpress. (Probably Ferguson made these orreries

at the time for sale and profit ; if so, the arrangement of the wheels, their numbors
of teeth, 4c., would be esteemed "private property.") The other two folding-
        illustrate the      rotation  of  the moon    on its axis. (See also note
plates  John Nourse         was one   of  Ferguson's   earliest London friends.            "84H.e)         was  an
   Mr.

eminent Mathematician, and well skilled in the Newtonian Philosophy," (vide
Memoir    of William Emerson, pp. 11 and 12 in                  Smeaton's   Emerson's Mechanics.)
   s3 To  his want of a grammatical or classical                education,  he probahly owes that

s"imEpuldicoistyia,"  of language  which  Capel LofTt,          Esii., so warmly eulogises in the
                        and which  makes  the subjects          of which Ferguson treats so readily
understood --a quality in which many of our
   *4 Ferguson                                                  mthoadternthepub"licDaitsisoenrstatairoen  deficient.
Phenomena of          here    gives  us to   u"ndwearsstahnisd                                                upon the
                      the   Harvest    Moon                     first work. It is most singular that

Ferguson       should have   called this his "first work,"      when, in the               previous        year,
             published the   following octavo work (in 42       pages) -- viz.
174"6,Thhee  use of a New   Orrery, made and described by
Printed for the A uthor. M DCCXL VI."                           James Pergusnn. London                            :

This was his "first work," and has a large folding-plate of an orrery, apparently
the   same as is used in the frontispiece of          his       Astronomy. This, his find work,
sold  at Is., and is now almost unknown.              We        had considerable difficulty in pro

curing a copy of it. What makes it the more remarkable that Ferguson should
designate his IH.wrtnt.ion upon the Phenomena of the Harvest Moon, 4c., his

flliiircsshatetidowno.ark,dIenisscptrrhiepeftaicofeancttoooffthahenis"oarDlrleiusrdsyienrtgthaatiitnon1t,h"me appd.ree5f,,a"chee4csoa.f;yst,thhie"sreLwbaoysrtksyhetooawrihn(1igs7,4f6ir)tshta/tppuuhbbis

Dissertation was his second ioork.
"5 The "following sheets" here referred to are his "Select Mechanical Exer

cises," published in September, 1773, and to which his Memoir is prefixed. (See
note 1. )
   *"> According      to our notes,       it is evident that Christ's       Hospital School,
Newoatk Street, London, was at least one of the places where Ferguson de
livered this, his first public lecture on Astronomy, and under the auspices of his
friend, Mr. James Hodgson, the then Mathematical Master. This great solar

eclipse took place on Thursday, 14th July 1748 (O.S.), and began at London at
9h. 3' morning, and ended at 12h. 8' mid-day ; the time of greatest obscuration
being about lOh. 32', at which time, about Mths of the upper part of the sun's
disc was obscured, leaving a slender cusp of the sun visible on the right hand
52 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE

Afterwards, I began to read Astronomical Lectures on an orrery
which I made, and of which the figures of all the wheel-work
Iare contained in the 6th and 7th Plates of this book.s7
                                                                                                         next

began to make an apparatus for lectures on mechanics, and

gradually increased the apparatus for other parts of Experimen
Ital Philosophy, buying from others what could not make for
Imyself, till I brought it to its present state.ss
                                                                                             then entirely

lower edge. Ferguson, in his " Gentleman and Lady's Astronomy," Plate 7th,
gives a projection and description of this eclipse. In the Gentleman's Magazine
for July,         there is a fine                                            of this eclipse by Jos. Walker.
   s7 In   1748,   book" -- viz.                "poSpkuielcatr   projection   Exercises,' we have a full and
                                                                Mechanical
           "This

minute description of this orrery, which is illustrated by two folding-plates
(Plates 6th and 7th). Plate 6th gives a ground plan, or calliper of the wheels,
yxyx\'and Plate 7th, a sectional view of them. In note 71 we mention that Ferguson
generally adopted                               (fraction of Camus) for his annual train, which

gives a    period of   about 4 seconds too slow                  every           year, for    the  length of the
year as    adopted    in Ferguson's time -- viz.                865d.           5h. 48m.     55",  and we there

show how such a period might have been measured by an other simple train.

^=lSj3vhIneaj"adslts»ohni~s2e254oo9frrd9e--8aryy--5s69wn3=ee=a3rfliy5n,o,d=r th^tehe=trnpee1r8i§opderybieeooaedfrn.s,thuseIeondrsm,te1ota8ohdney'nseoaafnrsopthdee2er4isoa4dbdovdeoearfiyv1set8,rdya.iinnf2sr1otoe9mfda.d59wwo--hofeu5el16dl8?,
have been produced. The annexed table was compiled by our friend, the late Dr.
WEnicllyia. m, arPtiecalerso"n,PlafonretDarr.y
                                                Brewster's Edinburgh         Encyclopiedia.  (Vide Edinburgh
                                                 Machines," p. 629).

                      Thk Trains of Ferguson's Orrery.

           Motions.                             Wheel-work.                                  Periods.

Earth's diurnal motion.                         ..HVXx'ry*x«.                .  .  365d. 5h.       48m.  58 -78s.
A lunation                                                                   '  '                  45      0
Solar rotation, . . .                           vxyxft-                              29 12         35
Revolution of Venus, .                                                                                   36
                                                                                    25 -                   8
....Revolution of Mercury,
                                                ....if of Venus . . .              224 10 47             24
Rotation of Venus, . .                                                                                     8
                                                T"T of its revolution              87 23           47
Moon's node,                                                                       24 22           :>,]
                                                55--as I*
Earth's parallelism,                                                                         18! years.

                                                t8 I x i% of a year.

   ss Ferguson was an ingenious and clever practical mechanician. He con
structed with his own hands, from his own designs, no less than eight orreries,
several astronomical clocks, various curious models and apparatus for illustrating
and demonstrating the principles of natural and experimental philosophy. He
had a room in his house (his sanctum sanctorum) fitted up with lathe, wheel-
cutting engine, vice, 4c. , in short, with all the tools used by clockmakers,
mathematical instrument makers, and opticians, &c. He spent much of his leisure
time in constructing and repairing models, and making curiosities. In his later
life he was assisted by Kenneth M'Culloch, an ingenious Scotch mechanic ; and
who, in 1801, was engaged on the new Planetarium of the Royal Institution of
London (vide Brewster's Edin. Ency., article "Planetary Machines," page 636).
                          LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.                                                                   53

left off drawing pictures,s9 and employed myself in the much
pleasanter business of reading lectures on Mechanics, Hydro

Istatics, Hydraulics, Pneumatics, Electricity, and Astronomy; 90

in all which, my encouragement has been greater than could

have expected.91

  IThe best machine ever contrived is the EcLlPSAREON, of

which there is a figure in the 13th Plate of my Astronomy.98 It

shows the time, quantity, duration, and progress of solar eclipses,
at all parts of the earth.93 My next best contrivance is the
Universal Dialing Cylinder, of which there is a figure in the
8th Plate of the Supplement to my Mechanical Lectures.94

  IIt is now thirty years since came to London,95 and during

    s9 When Ferguson notes he entirely Ufl-off draining pictures, he must refer to
tho year 1760. He commenced taking likenesses us a profession, at Edinburgh in
1734, and he informs us that ho followed this profession for six and twenty years,"

which period, added to 1734, brings out the year 1760 as the year when he

abandoned the profession of limner.
    9« Although it was not until 1760 that Ferguson abandoned the profession of
limner, yet he had on a great many occasions, for 12 years before this, delivered
Lectures ou Astronomy, &c., in London and the provinces. In 1760 ho laid aside
limning, and adopted and followed the profession of Lecturer on Astronomy and
the Sciences, in which profession he continued until within a few months of
his death, in 1776.
    91 Ferguson devoted
in   1760. Although he    himself to the  profession of Lecturer  "onencAosutrraogneommenyt,                    &c..
                          mentions that   in this profession his                                                had

been greater than he could havt ; expected ," this success, however, is more applicable to
the ten or twelve years which preceded his death. He had a severe struggle until
1758, when he sold the copyright of his Astronomy for £300, which gave him a
standing. In 1762 his pecuniary circumstances were further improved, when the
King granted him an annuity of ,£50. This made him a man of mark ; and in

1763, he was elected a free Fellow of the Royal Society. He ever afterwards

maintained a high position, and ultimately amassed a considerable sum of money.

(ViMde   Appendix.)       Ferguson estimates highly, saying, it was his best                                    con
        This Eclipsareon  to have invented it somewhere about the year 1753.
                                                                                                                It is
trivance. He appears
now only known in his Astronomy, Plate 13. It was sold at the sale of Fergu
son's effects, in March 1777, to a Mr. James Ferguson, teacher of Navigation and

Astronomy, Hermitage Row, Tower Hill, London, at whose sale, in November
1802, it was again sold. Purchaser not known.
In 9137A56s, hFoertrgaucscoonunptuobflitshhiesdEcalippsaamrepohnletwarsegraearddinbgefoitreenthtietleRdo, ya"l
                                                                                                                Society in 1754.
                                                                                                                Description of a
        of Mechanism for exhibiting the Time, Duration, and Quantity of Solar
i'Iicelcipeses in all places of the Earth." In the same years, he also sent short de
scriptions of this machine to the London Magazines.
                                                     " The Universal                                            Dialing
  ** It is not now known when Ferguson contrived
Cylinder." It, however, appears to have been invented about the year 1766. In
1767, Ferguson published his Supplement to his Lectures, octavo, pp. 68 ; with
numerous plates. A representation of the Cylinder is given in Plate 8th of the
Supplement, and pages 42 to 48 describe its construction and use. This is an
ingenious contrivance, which we prefer to the Eclipsareon. (See Gentleman's
Magazine for 1769, page 143.)

   9* Ferguson wrote his Memoir in August and September, 1773. He came to
London end of May 1743 ; therefore, at the time he wrote his Memoir he had been

rather more than 30 years resident in London.
54 A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE LIFE OF THE AUTHOR.

all that time, I have met with the highest instances of friend

ship from all ranks of people, both in town and country, which

I do here acknowledge with the utmost respect and gratitude ; '"5

and particularly the goodness of our present gracious Sovereign,
who, out of his privy purse, allows me fifty pounds a-year, which
is regularly paid without any deduction.97

9* Our memoranda show, that besides King George III. bestowing a pension
on Ferguson, his Majesty also frequently sent him presents, as ;i mark of esteem ;
as also did the several branches of the Royal Family. From the nobility and
gentry in various parts of the Kingdom he received likewise substantial marks of
the estimation in   wtohic"hThtheeyPheeivldy  him.
   97 On referring                             Puusk Accounts," in      'thewaSstagtreanPteadpebr yOfKficine,g
London, we find that this pension
                                              of "fifty pouiuls a-year
Georce 111., to Mr. Ferguson, in the end of the year 17til, and that he drew the
first half of his pension-- viz. £25, on January 22d, 17(i2 i the pension being pay
able half-yearly).
                       EXTENDED MEMOIR

                                                                    UK

               J A M E S FERGUSON.

               1743.

Ferguson leaves Edinburgh for London. -- It is now not

certainly known what made Ferguson resolve to leave Edin

burgh. He would, no doubt, see many obstacles in the way

to his attaining success in it. On looking around him he could

not fail to observe that its trade was in a very depressed state ;
                                       " circulating                     "
that there was then a scarcity of the                 medium            ;

that an apathy had settled down on its inhabitants ; and that

there was a consequent want of enterprise -- a state of things,

he would find, that had arisen since the Union, owing, in a great

measure, to the large numbers of the nobility and gentry aban
doning it for London. In short, Edinburgh, between the date

of the Union, in 1707, and the year 1750, passed through one
of the most depressed periods of its history -- a period which has

been designated " the dark age of Edinhurgh." It is therefore

evident that Edinburgh, in 1743, was not the place to give full

scope to Ferguson's genius, where he could expect to have suc

cess in his self-taught business of limning, or as an occasional

writer on his favourite science of astronomy. We may also add,

that Ferguson, about a year previous to his leaving Edinburgh,

had set afloat in the London literary market there, two specula

tions --viz. " The Astronomical Rotula," and an Astronomical

Card-Dial. Of the success of the latter publication, nothing now

is known ; 9s but the former -- the Rotula -- was successful. It sold

3s We refer to this Dial in note 65; but as it now seems to be utterly unknown,
w"eScwaleilsl  anohefinrtevheergtsieivgdenstr,a"ianmagnoudrlaer"fuS' lc'SlacledaselescoorffipLtthaieotint(uladyoesfs,oitff.rtohmeThmtehoentEtohqpu;apt'aorartntdoof6u0nitdDeecrgorntehteaessi;nes,"

there is

and directly under is the dial for the hours of the day. The top compartment
dthhaiaesl,beotnhtgteoramwveoodrdf soitn"thitFe,orewreiantroheoinnenaghrosawuveresde,,"pin"g MAcfootenrrcnnaionvoegn-chuhorouvuresrsw;,"h"ic"ahnEdobeoinnuinnadgssiImwthiuelarrtso."pcuoArfvleothnaigst
56 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

well iii Edinburgh and other towns, but nowhere sowell as in Lon
don. Thus, the Rotula became to Ferguson an " avant cotiriere."
His name being thus advertised in the great metropolis, would be

to him a matter of great importance, and, no doubt, would in due

time become one of his strongest inducements to remove to that

city. Besides, he had then no strong tie to bind him to Scotland.

His infirm parents had tfien recently died at advanced ages ;
and therefore, in leaving, he would be spared the pain of bidding

them a last farewell." It would appear from our notes, that

Ferguson, early in the spring of 1743, after carefully consider

ing all matters, and no doubt receiving the approbation of his

friends, finally made up his mind, and determined to leave
Edinburgh for London, the great seat of wealth, patronage, and

power -- the most proper place for him ; as tltsre he would have

the greatest possible chance of meeting with success in his

contemplated pursuits.

   Having now resolved to leave Edinburgh for London, he began
making preparations for his departure. He at once set about
finishing a beautiful little orrery with ivory wheels, of his own

invention, and which had been in hand for some time previous.
After completing its wheel-work, he enclosed it in a mahogany

box of twelve sides, having a short pillar rising from each angle
of the box, supporting a thin, broad, wooden circle,-- the ecliptic
circle,-- the surface of which he covered with paper, and then

neatly inscribed onit                      with   pen, the names and days of the
                                                  a
                    a                                      aa
month, the signs and degrees of the ecliptic, &c. The wheel-
                                       is
work was concealed from view by thin circular plate, above
                               a it,
which, in the centre, was placed                                      gilded sun the earth and
                                                                                           ; is of ;
moon were ivory balls, which, along with the sun, were set                                           is ;

in motion by winch communicating with the internal wheels.

When was all completed, had a very handsome appear-
                                                  of it
                    there                " Scale                           Sig"nsScfaolre  the Bead " and along
                     on the                                        is
                                                                          a
the  margm-lxirder                                Rectifying
the  margin-border
                                right hand, there                                              Altitudes,  "fro/m. Fethre
horizon to the. zenith." In the lower left-hand corner there                                  engraved,
guson, Delin.;" and in the lower corner on the right,                                      "  R. Cooper,     Sculp."

After Fergnson'9 death, in 1776, this Dial, among other things, came into the
hands of Ferguson's youngest son, John, who, early in the present century, pre
         to his relative, the late Miss Wilson, of Keith, who, in the year 1842,
sented  it
                 it

                                                                   :

                                                            it
kindly gifted  to us. This copy of the Dial in our possession                                            perhaps now

the only one in existence.
89 Ferguson's parents were dead before the beginning of the year 1743. Their
         the time of  t"hetoir    death cannot       now              be ascertained but a traditionary
ages at  makes them             be at least 70    "  --               follows that they were born some
account

where between the years 1670 and 1673.
                          JAMES FERGUSON.                                           57

ance ; 100 he also finished, in pen and ink, a heantifnl diagram of

the solar system, and several mechanical drawings, maps, &c.
   After having got in his few outstanding debts arising from

his business as a limner, and the sums due to him on sales of

his Rotula, he found, on balancing his little accounts, that he

was in much better pecuniary circumstances than he had ever

been, which was principally owing to the sums he had received
from sales of the Rotula; and with the expectation that the
Rotula would still continue to sell well, especially in Loudon,
he would leave Edinburgh in good spirits.

    According to memoranda in our possession, Ferguson and his
wife took their departure from Leith (the seaport of Edin
burgh) 101 in a smack, for London, on Saturday, 21st May, 1743,

having on board, as luggage, a chest, and a few boxes, contain
ing their little wardrobe, the orrery with ivory wheel-work, just
alluded to, and a large collection of Astronomical and Geogra

phical Diagrams, Maps, Mechanical Plans, Rotulas, and Card-
Dials. The sailing distance between Leith and London is
about 500 miles. After a somewhat tedious voyage of seven
days, they arrived safe in London, on Friday, May 27ih.lni
As Ferguson, on arriving in London, makes a new start in life,

we may note that his age was then 33, that of his wife 23, and

that they had been married four years (without family.)

   Ferguson in London. -- Shortly after his arrival in London,
Ferguson went to the Right Honourable Sir Stephen Poyntz, at
St. James's, and delivered into his hands the " letter of recom-
men<lation " he had received for him, from Mr. Baron Edlin, at

Edinburgh.103 Sir Stephen received him with the greatest

10,) As mentioned in note 70, this small elegant orrery is still to be seen at
Sandon Hall, Staffordshire, but now damaged by the fire which destroyed Sandon
Hall, on June 6th, 1848.
101 Leith is situated on the Firth of Forth, at the distance of nearly 2 miles
NNE of Edinburgh. In Ferguson's day it was a very small place. At the present
time, it is a large and flourishing sea-port, with a population of about 30,000.
ous10a2ffDaiur,ri--ngthelasLteitchenstmurayckas,patshsoagueghbebtwueiletn    Leith  and London was a very tedi
                                                                           with a   view to despatch, having, in

some extreme cases, occupied about three weeks in sailing from Leith to London
when southerly gales prevailed. Indeed, the voyage was considered by landsmen
an event, and so hazardous as to suggest to prudent travellers the propriety of
making their wills before it was undertaken. The particulars as to date of Fer
guson and his wife's departure from Leith, luggage, Ac., were communicated to
us in 1831 by his youngest son, John Ferguson, Esq., Edinburgh.
103 We have not been able to ascertain whether or not the Right Honourable
Stephen Poyntz was a Knight or Baronet in 1743, at the period of Ferguson's first
visit ; but in recording his death, the Gentleman's Magazine, vol. xx. p. 570, says

                          H
58 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

kindness. It was fortunate for Ferguson that, on his arrival iu

London, he had been introduced to so good a man. Baron

Edlin's letter, as a matter of course, would refer Sir Stephen to

the Astronomical Rotula, and the Card-Dial, then recently pub

lished by Ferguson at Edinburgh, as also to his elegant little

Orrery with ivory wheels, then lately made by him ; all which

would indicate a mind strongly inclined to astronomical pur

suits. A conversation would ensue as to his prospects, and how

they could be promoted. Ferguson would mention to Sir

Stephen that he had followed his self-taught business of lim

ning for the last ten years, that he had got tired of and had
                                        ;

                                              by
                                                                                it,
a strong wish to be employed in some vocation connected with

his favourite sciences of Astronomy and Geography, such as

that of a public lecturer on Astronomy, and private teacher of
Geography and the Use of the Globes. In such professions,
                                        far too many-- the supply
there were already in London

greatly exceeded the demand and consequently, such gave
little promise of being successful.104 Sir Stephen being well

aware of this, would suggest to Ferguson a situation in which he

coidd teach the sciences of Astronomy and Geography, and thus

in receipt of a fixed salary, and where his mind would be set at

rest regarding the future. On talking over such matters, mathe

matics would be alluded to, when Ferguson would have to admit

that he had never studied this important branch. This would

tend to disconcert Sir Stephen, because mathematics being the

basis on which those sciences rested, would be necessary for
   it,
                     it
Ferguson at once to learn as, without a competent knowledge

of the mathematics, a situation in no scientific academy would

be open to him. Sir Stephen would probably say so to Ferguson

at parting and also, that he would think the matter over, and
;

do what he could to get over this difficulty.

Sir Stephen accordingly made immediate inquiries regarding

mathematical tutors, and was not long in finding out an academy

which would soon be in want of mathematical master, and secur-
   a
                 a
" The Right Honourable Sir Stephen Poyntz, formerly preceptor to the Duke            of
Cumberland, and a Privy Counsellor, died on December Yith, 1750."
   1M Even down to 1758, London appears to have been well supplied with pro
fessors of such branches. In letter written by Ferguson to the Kev. Alexander

Irvine, one of the ministers of Elgin,  in the north  of Scotland,  "anads  of date, Lon
don, 17th January, 1758, he informs     his reverend  friend that           to astronomy,

there are at present more than doublc the number thai might serve the place, people's
taste lying but very little in that way." (See Letter by Ferguson, under date 1758.)
                JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                 59

ing the situation for Ferguson. He next wrote " to an eminent
Professor of Matlutmatws to take Ferguson into his house, to
give him board and lodging, with all proper instructions to
qualify him for teaching a Mathematical School." The Mathe
matical Professor, in his reply to Sir Stephen, requests that
Ferguson be sent immediately to him. Sir Stephen sends for

Ferguson, and informs him, that he had just received a letter

from his friend, the Professor of Mathematics, and that he had

agreed to take him into his house, give him board and lodgings,

and proper instruction to qualify him for the Mathematical

Mastership of the School, which would soon be vacant. Fergu

son is very grateful to Sir Stephen for his great kindness, but

feels much perplexed, and is now to give utterance to a few
.words that will frustrate all Sir Stephen's kind endeavours
 in his behalf. Ferguson told Sir Stephen that he " did not

know how iie    was to maintain his wife during                              the time he
tcould require  to be under the masters tuition."                            Wife ! " are
you a married man? " asked Sir Stephen in astonishment. Fer
guson told him " he iiad been so ever since May 1739." Sir

it,
                          a

                                  a it,

                                                                          ;

                                               it
Stephen said he was sorry for because quite defeated his

scheme, as the master of the school he had in view for him must
be a bachelor. 105 Thus ended " the mathematical master scheme,"

and with all hopes of Ferguson obtaining a permanent situ
ation in that direction.

We are inclined to think that Ferguson never would have

gained a name, or succeeded as mathematical tutor. His was

not a mathematical but purely mechanical mind, developing

itself in mechanical inventions, and in the construction of orrer

ies, cometariums, astronomical clocks, sun-dials, &c. To his

latest day he did not understand Euclid his constant method

to satisfy himself of the truth of any problem, was by measurement

with a scale and pair of compasses.106 Being thus disappointed

lo5 It has before been remarked as singular, that Ferguson did not take his
wife's maintenance into consideration at the first interview, and thus have saved
Sir Stephen much trouble. Probably at his first interview he might have formed
midea from what was then said, that few weeks would likely suffice for being
;
           a

              If,

                                      ;
                                                             a

                                                                of :

                                                   /

                                                                                            of
under the professor's tuition or, at all events, to enable him afterwards to instruct

himself and in that case, his funds on hand would enable him to tide over the
                on his second visit to Sir Stephen, he was told that he would
time required.

require to be few months under the professor's tuition, he would feel uneasy, and
think of his finances. (See note 73).
   106 Professor Dugald Stewart observes  of Ferguson  --"                   remember distinctly to

have heard him say that he more than once attempted to study the elements Euclid,

but found himself quite unable to entertain that species reasoning. The second pro
GO EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

of becoming a mathematical tutor, he would likely account it
a misfortune ; but there can be no doubt, that ultimately, the
disappointment was to him a great gain, as in process of time,
he became a Lecturer on Natural and Experimental Philosophy,

of world-wide renown ; also, the author of a great many popular
books, tracts, and papers on Astronomy, Mechanics, Electricity,

position   of tht, first book he mentioned  particularly as                       one   of his            stumbling blocks at
the very   outset; the circuitous process   by which Euclid                       set  about              an operation, which

never could puzzle for a single moment any man who had seen a pair of compasses,
appearing to h im altogether capricious and ludicrous. He added, at the same lime,
that as there were various geometrical theorems, of which he iiad daily occasion to
makeuse, he had satisfied himself of their truth, eithcr by means of his compasses
and SCALe, or by       saompeerfmecetchreacnoilcleacltiocnont--rivhainscems ecohfanhiicsaloieonr          invention. Of one of
these, 1 have still                                                                                       experimental demon

stration of the i7th proposition of EuclicVs first book, by cutting a card so as to
afford an ocular proof  that the square"s   of the two sides actually filled the same                             space
with the square of the  hypothenute.        Loml. Mech. Mag. , vol. 6th, p. 110.

   The annexed         figure represents    Ferguson's                          dbisosoekct--edvizc.ard"  for  a mechanical de
monstration of         the 47th prop.      Euclid, 1st                                                         any right-anglcd
                                                                                                          In
triangle, the square deserihed upon the side subtending the right angle, is equal to

If "thesquares     described upon the two  tshiedetswocosnidteasin"ingarethceurtigahst             angle."        figure,
             the  squares described upon                                                          in the annexed
"then placed upon the square subtending the right angle," they will exactly cover
                       ;it                                                                                     and in
                                                                                                               '2,
                                                                                                                     3,
                                                                                                                           4,
                                                                                                                                        5

                                                                                                                            it
Ifthe surface of this square. The dissections are numbered 1,
the two squares above.            these were cut out in card, wood, or metal, and placed
                                    in the                                                                     exactly fill
on   the   corresponding figures  course,   large  square below, they would
up  -- he              and of               were   the dissections in the two                                  squares above
           equal to

weighed in scales, they would be equal in weight to the large square below.

           Card used by Ferguson to demonstrate 47 Prop. Euclid, Book 1st.

   This figure    "of  Euclid's,  prop. 47, Book 1st,                            to be found in "Harris's Lexicon
TecHNICUM,             work,      will be remembered,
                     a                                                          that Ferguson perused in the library

                                it

                                                                              is

of William Baird, Esq. of Auchmedden, in the summer of the year 1733.
                                                 JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                     61

Perspective, &c ; 107 and, at his death, left a considerable funded

property.10s
    Ferguson being thus disappointed, and again thrown on his

own resources, Sir Stephen asked him what business he intend
ed to follow. Ferguson answered " that he knevj of none besides
that of drawing pictures.109 On this, Sir Stephen requested
him to draw the pictures of his lady and children, that he
might show them, in order to recommend him to others ; and
told him, that when he was out of business to come to him, and

I Ihe would get as much as he could for him. Ferguson adds,
" and       soon found        as much as could execute,                                                                 but  he died in
a few                          my inexpressible grief. m                                                                     " drawing
          years after, to

Although Ferguson had resumed his business of
pictures," his heart was not in it. His mind, he says, " was still
                                                                               " things astronomi
pursuing things more agreeable" that                                   if is,

cal," and wished very much to abandon, possible, the profes

sion. This he could not do all at once, but resolved to do so by

degrees. As a first step towards this desirable object, he deter

mined on getting up, during his leisure hours, an astronomical

apparatus for public lectures, and private tuition on Astronomy                                                                      ;

aand thus, adding to his business of limner, that of lecturer,
                   by
&c. on Astronomy, he would anticipate considerable increase
                                                                       a

to his income, and leave time to determine which of the two

professions would ultimately be most conducive to his pecuniary
benefit. With these two professions, that of limner and lecturer

on Astronomy, &c, Ferguson had a somewhat severe struggle for
  living in London, for nearly 17 years -- viz. from 1743 to 1760,

in which latter year he entirely relinquished his old business of

limner, and depended on that of lecturer on Astronomy, &c,
which he successfully followed from 1760 till near the period of

his death, in 1776.

About the end of the year 1743, Ferguson sold his orrery

   107 During the 33 years of Ferguson's residence in London (1743 -- 1776), he,
ax far as now known, was the author and publisher of volumes, I5 traits,
and"*23Shnoaprtelrys,is
                                                         is
                                                                74

                                                                                                                     7
                        on Astronomy,            Mechanics, 4c.        1776,    several                                      London  news
                       after Ferguson's          death, in November

papers had paragraphs, mentioning                that he  Whadill,lefftaallsbocuotnAs'i6d,e00ra0b; lybusthothrte                     money
and proderty he left, as mentioned               in his                                                                              of this
          "(nDeerawFeinrgguspoicnt'usreWs im" .
sum.                                             in the Appendix).     drawing                                        likenesses --more pro
    loo                                            the Scotticism for

per"loy,  Inking likenesses.  lived              years after the time here referred to --viz. Juno
          Sir Stephen Poyntz

1743. He dicil 17th December 1750.
                                    EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

with ivory wheel-work, to Sir Dudley Ryder (afterwards Lord

Chancellor of England). It has been conjectured that Fergu

son was introduced to Sir Dudley by the Right Honourable Sir
Stephen Poyntz, his friend and patron. We have not been able
to ascertain the price at which this orrery was sold. As men
tioned in note 70, this orrery is now in the possession of the
Right Honourable the Earl of Harrowby, at Sandon Hall, in

Staffordshire, the descendant of Sir Dudley Ryder. It was

much damaged by the fire which destroyed Sandon Hall, in
June, 1848, as already mentioned.

                                                  1744.

   The Orrery. --Early in the year 1744, Ferguson commenced

getting up an apparatus for public lectures on Astronomy, and
for private tuition in Geography, agreeably to his resolve of the
previous year. Being now without an orrery, he determined to
make a large one, much larger than either of the two he had
made, as the first and most desirable piece of machinery for his
purpose to begin with. With this view, he laid down on paper,
a plan and section of wheel-work for a wooden orrery, to show the
motion of the Sun on its inclined axis ; the revolution of Mer

cury round the sun ; the revolution of Venus, and rotation on
an inclined axis ; the revolution of the Earth round the sun,

the diurnal rotation on its inclined axis, the parallelism of its
axis, and consequently, the alternate succession and different

lengths of days and nights throughout the year, and the varied
change of seasons ; the synodic and periodic revolutions of the

Moon round the earth ; the retrograde motion of the nodes of
its orbit, and therefore, all the eclipses of the sun and moon.

At this point in the solar system, Ferguson made a stop, -- all
the then known superior planets, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn,

being omitted in his arrangements. After getting his orrery
plans, and wheel-work calculations completed to his satisfaction,
it would appear that he took them to an ingenious turner in
wood and metals, with whom he was intimate, and employed
him to make it,111 Ferguson promising to attend to the making

"I This orrery was the basis of all Ferguson's future orreries, both as regards
the prime movers of his wheel-work, and external appearance. In his Memoir,
he informs  tuhsatth"atthehree  had made six orreries since the    two he had made in Scot
land, and                       are not any two of them in v:hich    the wheel-work is alike."
                                 modifications of the wheel-work
This seems to apply to                                              only. -- It would appear
from our memoranda, as well as from a notice in Ferguson's "Tables and Tracts,"
                                        JAMES FERGUSON.                                                              (J.-S

a
     it,
                             a
of and lend hand when necessary. The making of this

orrery appears to have been a tedious affair, partly, no doubt,

occasioned by Ferguson being compelled to attend to his limning

engagements for a livelihood during the time of its construction,

which appears to have occupied little intervals of time, during

    period of eighteen months. This being the case, we shall here
                                                                                                        finished --
make a digression, and refer to again when                                                 is
                                                     it it it                                it
viz. end of the year 1745, and fill up the interval with notices                                                     R, A of
                                                                                                    is
incidents as they occurred.

    The Moon's concave path and Traje<torutm Lunare. --

According to our memoranda, was towards the end of the
year 1744, when to Ferguson " appeared, that although the

moon goes round tlie earth, and tiiat tlie sun far on the out
side         the moon's orbit, yet the moon's motion must be in a
il
         of
    ne that is always concave toward the sun, and upon making
a delineation representing her absolute path in the heavens,
                                                 Ferguson, in his " Essay upon the
found      it to be really so."                  her axis," page 62 (published in
Moon's       turning round

1747), informs us, that " in discoursing formerly with some

gentlemen, found that they imagined the moon's progressive
      B,

           I

                            1
path made knots or loops once in every lunation, as shown at

and in fig. of the annexed diagram in which case, as seen
                                                               is
                                                 Fig.n              ;
                                                         1.

                                     R

    Form of the Moon's Tath, as supposed             hy  many Scientific men previous to 1744.

from the sun, she would appear stationary at retrograde at                                 S,
and in all the rest of her path direct. " This," says Ferguson.
" excited my curiosity to draw a representation of her true ab                                               a
solute path, by means of simple machine," which he contrived                                                    i.i
                                        a
p.   167,   whilst    treating of    t"his(thoerrperrye,sentht aotrrehery)":g--otheaitgood   wthoarktma"nthsto,      make an
orrery     under    my inspection                                                     adds,                          man who
made this orrery had never made anyth ing of the kind before, and he note dead.
An ingenious and worthy lady has now in her possession,                                      whose father was one
of my first and best friends in London." After this orrery                                   of 1744-45, Ferguson
either made or caused to be made                 under his inspection,                fmiveadeo.therThoerre"rieins,gewnhioicuhs
will                                             dates when they were
and   wbeortfhoyunldadyno"ticheedre  under the
                                     alluded to  by Ferguson understood to be daughter of
the Right Honourable Sir Stephen Poyntz.
64 KXTENDED MEMOIR OF

and made -- viz. " The Trajectorium Lunare."                              This
machine produced a curve, as is shown in fig. 2 : -- this

curve " shows plainly that the moon can no more appear either

stationary or retrograde as seen from the sun, than as seen

            Fig. 2.

Ferguson's  Trajectory of the Moon's Path. -- Published 26th June, 1745.

                        Scale, ^th of the original.

from the earth ; for her progress is every day at least 880,000
miles more than the whole diameter of her orbit ; and as her
absolute motion is always concave to the sun, as her relative

motion is to the earth, the broadest curve-line from N M to N M

represents as much of the ecliptic as the earth describes from
any particular new moon to the next following ; and the nar
rowest curve-line, where bounded by the same letters, represents
the moon's absolute path during that time, which is concave to
the sun, even at the time of new moon. The small dotted circles
is intended to represent the moon's imaginary orbit in propor
tion to the earth's annual path, as the said orbit is carried along

with the earth round the sun. N M signifies new moon, 1 Q
first quarter, F M full moon, 3 Q third quarter. The right lines
crossing these curves, if continued inward, would all meet in the
centre of the earth's annual path, or in the sun." In the dia
gram, the proportion of the curves and orbits are too large--such
cannot be accurately delineated on a small scale. For a true
projection, we must refer the reader to Ferguson's " Essay upon
the Moon turning round her own axis," Plate 2d, p. 62;

and also to Plate 7th of Ferguson's Astronomy.112

    112 Let us suppose, as an illustration, that our earth has no revolution round
the sun. In that case, the moon's path round the earth (if it could then revolve)
would be in a circular orbit nearly ; but as our earth revolves round the sun, and
is followed by the moon, a compound motion is given to the moon that destroys
a circular revolution, and in its stead, produces a curve which sweeps alternate
ly within and without the earth's orbit (see Lunar Orbit as generated by the
Trajectorium Lunare, in the annexed diagram, and also in Ferguson's Astronomy,
Plate 7th). Suppose a coach wheel to be placed close to a wall, and having
a nail projecting from its rim near the circumference ; lift the wheel free from
the ground, let the nail touch the wall, then turn the wheel round, and the nail

                                                                                    J
                 JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                               65

Thus we find that this, the first of Ferguson's important dis

coveries in Astronomy (and which added much to his reputation),
was suggested to his mind during a conversation he had with some

gentlemen on the form of the moon's orbit, they maintaining

that the absolute path, if projected, would form a series of loop-

curves, while Ferguson suspected, what afterwards turned out to
be correct, viz. that " the moon's path vjas always concave to-

ward tfie sun."

The following is the description of this the Trajectorium

Lunare, from Ferguson's Astronomy.
   " This machine is for delineating the paths of the earth and

moon, showing what sort of curves they make in the ethereal

regions. S is the sun, and E the earth, whose centres are 81

inches distant from each other,113 every inch answering to a

million of miles. M is the moon, whose centre is -^,,*rt parts of
an inch from t he earth's, in this machine, this being in just pro
AAportion to the moon's distance from the earth.114
                                                                                                     is a bar

of wood to be moved by hand round the axis g, which is fixed
in the wheel Y. The circumference of this wheel is to the cir

cumference of the small wheel L (below the other end of the

                 Ferguson's Trajectorium Lunare.
                                       (Section.)

will describe a circle on the wall ; this done, let the wheel rest again on the ground
with the nail touching the wall, roll the wheel forward, and the nail, instead of
describing a circle, will now describe a cycloid. In the first case, the wheel had
one motion only, in the second it had two, one round its axis, and another in a
rIefcitnilintheearlasdtirecacsteio, nt,heanwdheheelncheadthgeondeifffeorrewnacred  of the   curves
                                                                                    in the   arc of  generated on the wall;
                                                                                                     a circle, instead of in a

straight line, the nail would have generated a curve similar to that of the true
path of the moon in absolute space.
113 At the time Ferguson made this machine, and wrote an account of
                                                                                                     it                        the
                                                                                                        is

                                                                                                                          it,
distance of the sun from the earth was estimated at 81,000,000 miles. In con

structing similar machine for the present day, must be recollected that by the
         a                           is

                                               it
transits of Venus over the sun's disc, in years 1761 and 1769,                                       found that the

mean distance of the sun from the earth 95,000,000 miles (in round numbers);
and therefore, the centres of the sun and earth in the machine must be 95 inches

apart.
114 The     parts of an inch, the distance of.the centres of the earth and moon
in the machine may still be taken, as will produce no sensible error.
                                     I it
66 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

jbar), as 363 days is to 29£, or as a year is to a lunation. The

wheels are grooved round their edges, and in the grooves is the

cat-gut string G G crossing between the wheels at X. On the

axis of the wheel L is the index F, in which is the moon's axis

M for carrying her round the earth E (fixed on the axis of the
wheel L) in the time that the index goes round a circle of 29 £
equal parts, which are the days of the moon's age. The wheel
Y has the months and days of the year all round its limb ; and
the bar A A is fixed to the index I, which points out the days of

the months answering to the days of the moon's age, shown by

the index F in the circle of 29£ equal parts at the other end
of the bar. On the axis of the wheel L is put the piece L),

below the cock c, in which this axis turns round ; and in D are
put the pencils e and to, directly under the earth E and moon

M, so that m is carried rouud e, as M is round E.
   " Lay the machine on an even floor, pressing gently on the

wheel Y to cause its spiked feet to enter a little into the floor

to secure the wheel from turning. Then lay a paper about four

feet long, and the pencils e and m, cross-wise to the bar ; which

done, move the bar slowly round the axis g of the wheel Y,

and as the earth E goes round the sun S, the moon M will

go round the earth with a duly proportioned velocity ; and

the friction-wheel W running on the floor will keep the bar

from bearing too heavily on the pencils e and to. which will

delineate the paths of the earth and moon, a-s already described-

As the index I points out the days of the months, the index F

shows the moon's age on these days, in the circle of 29£ equal

parts ; and as this last index points to the different days in its

circle, the like numerical figures may be set to those parts of

the curves of the earth's path and moon's, where the pencils c

and m are at those times respectively, to show the places of the

earth and moon. If the pencil e be pushed a very little off, as

if from the pencil to, to about part of the distance, and the
                          410
                                 e,
pencil to pushed as. much towards to bring them to the same

distances again, though not to the same points of space then
                                          ;

as to goes round          will go as were round the centre of
                  e,      e
                       e
                                   it
gravity, between the earth and moon m but this motion will
                                       ;

not sensibly alter the figure of the earth's path or the moon's.115

   115 ln uote 75, we made a frw remarks on the " Trajectorium Luuarc," which

show that the merit (if the invention was disputed, and that Ferguson had been
                                               JAMES FERGUSON.                                  67

"If a pin as p be put through the pencil m with its head

towards that of the piu q, in the pencil e, its head will always

keep thereto as m goes round e, or as the same side of the moon

is still obverted to the earth. But the pin p, which may be

considered as an equatorial diameter of -the moon, will turn

quite round the point m, making all possible angles with the

line of its progress, or line of the moon's path. This is an

ocular proof of the moon's turning round her axis."                                             (Vide
Ferguson's Astronomy, article 403).

   Seasons' Illustrator. -- It would appear from our memor

anda, that it was towards the end of this year, 17+4, that Fer
guson invented and first used his celebrated simple Season
Illustrator, and which has ever since been used by lecturers on

charged with having " pirated " it from the "Gentleman's Magazine," as the
following letter from Ferguson, to the Rev. Mr. Birch, will show.

" Rev. Sir,                                               " London, \itk Deer. 1752.
                         "The instrument (the Trajectorium Lunare) was shown to the
Royal Society in the year 1745, and a painted scheme of the moon's path, taken
1
                             a

                                          it,
from a drawing made by was presented                         to the said Society the same year, being
published at the desire of the late worthy                   President, Mr. Folkes. Last summer

    gave a draught of the wheel-work of my orrery (in which Venus moves
as described by Signior Bianchini), together with a scheme of the Moon's con
cave path, and black-lead sketch of the instrument above described, for drawing
her path, to Mr. Hawkcs, of Norwich, tho in his account published in the Gent.
Mag. for this month (Deer. 1752), he has not thought proper to mention it.
am of opinion that altho' that instrument performs well enough by itself, yet
                                                                                         it
                                                                                                       it I
will not be found, however varied from the original plan, to answer so well when
                                                  seems plain to me that he never tried
put to an orrery besides,                                                                betore he
                         ;

                                     if
                                           it it
published his account, for                        should he done according to the figure he has given,
the moon must go the wrong way round the earth in his orrery to make the pencil
which describes her path in the instrument added to                         a it,  go the right way round
      pencil which describes the annual path of the                 earth.
the"     know has been insinuated that pirated                      this machine   (the Trajectorium
      1      it                                          1
                 a
Lunarie) from Magazine published some years before my scheme of the moon's
path was printed. Hut am ready and willing to declare, in the most solemn
                             I
                                  it
manner, that never saw that Magazine, nor heard of any such thing being in                      is it
             1

until last summer, when                           was handed about by certain person, with an
intent to do me all the prejudice that lay in his power. But tlie figure of the
moon's path in that Magazine, instead of being always concave to the sun, turns
off from in sharp angle at every new moon, -the paths in different lunations
             it
                      a

appearing like so many segments of lesser circles joined together at their ends,
with their angular points all turned towards one common centre where the sun
              to be placed.
sup"poMseyd  Scheme of the   Moon's               Path,  on  large  paper,  is  sold by Mr. Senex, at the

Globe, opposite St. Dnustan's Church, Fleet Street, Price Is. tid.

                                                  Your faithful servant,
                                                                              James Ferguson."

   Copied from the Birch collection of Letters in the British Museum,                    by     Mr. A.
Burt, copyist.
68 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Astronomy. We annex a view of it, It will be seen that the

apparatus consists of two large hoops, the one fitting within the
other, and moveable on two pivot-pins, at points directly oppo
site to each other. These hoops are either supported on two
pillars, or held in hands, while a second party, by means of

                                            Ferguson's Season Illustrator.

 a strong thread, leads a ball or globe gradually round the inside
hoop, and if the ball or globe has the thread by which it is sus
 pended twisted in a direction from east to west, it will untwist,
 and make the globe rotate from west to east, showing thereby
 the cause of day and night ; and by elevating the interior hoop to
 an angle of 23£ degrees, with the exterior hoop, which represents
 the ecliptic, and is kept in a horizontal position, the hoop so ele
vated will show the path or orbit of the earth. These hoops being
 taken to a table on which a lighted candle is standing, place them

around the candle--as in the figure--so that the flame may be in

 the centre of the hoops, and on a level with the horizontal hoop
 representing the ecliptic; all this done, twist the thread by
 which the small globe is suspended in a direction from east to
 west, and allow it to untwist itself while you lead it and the
 globe slowly round the elevated hoop, in a direction fiom west
 to east, and you will see illustrated, in a very familiar and
   JAMES FERGUSON.                          69

agreeable manner, the rotation of our earth on its axis in the

proper direction, from west to east; and if the globe, whilst thus

rotating, be gradually carried round the inside of the inclined

hoop, the alternate succession and different lengths of days and

nights throughout the year wilLJbe made evident to sight, as also
the varied change of the seasons, Spring, Summer, Autumn, and

Winter. Referring to the annexed engraving, the letter A indi

cates the position of the earth at the vernal equinox, 21st March.

The centre of globe being on a level with the candle flame
(which represents the sun), will be enlightened from pole to pole,

same as the globe is when in the opposite position, thereby causing

equal day and night all over the world. The letter B shows the

position of the earth at the summer solstice, 21st June. Here

it will be observed that the small globe is considerably under

the flame of the candle, so much so, that its light proceeds to a

point 23£ degrees beyond the north pole, enlightening the whole
arctic circle and thereby causing any given point north of the

equator of the globe to continue longer in the light than in the

darkness, thus giving the longest day, mid-summer, to the

northern surface of the earth. The lower part of the globe in

this position will be found in darkness. The light from the

candle falls short of the south pole by 23$ degrees, quite the
reverse at the north pole; thus causing mid-winter to all the

surface of the earth to the south of the equator. The letter C

shows the place of the earth at the autumnal equinox, 23d

September. Again, as in the opposite position on 21st March,

the candle flame enlightens the globe from pole to pole, causing

equal day and night over the world ; and lastly, the letter D in

dicates the earth's position at the winter solstice, 23d Decem

ber. Here the light from the candle does not reach the north

pole, but falls 23£ degrees short of;    just as many degrees as

             it,
                   a

                          it
the light went beyond this pole in the opposite position but
                                         ;

whilst the light falls short of the north pole, penetrates 23£
degrees beyond the south pole thus causing mid-winter to the

northern parts of the earth, and mid-summer to southern hemi

asphere. Thus at cost of a few pence, simple apparatus may
be constructed to illustrate the two-fold motion of the earth--the

alternate succession of day and night --with their various lengths,

and the change of the seasons, in way little inferior to that
                                      a

shown in complicated orreries, or other astronomical machinery.
70 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

An engraving, similar to the one we here give, will be found in
Ferguson's Astronomy, Plate 4th, figure 3d.1"

                                                    1745.

   The Trajectorium Lunare -- Martin Folkes, Esq., and
the Royal Society. -- According to our memoranda, some time

during the month of February 1745, Ferguson took his recently
invented " Trajectorium Lunare, and, the delineation it had

rtuule, to Martin Folkes, E*q., ths then President of the Royal
Society, on a Thursday afternoon"11'1 who expressed great
                                      it,
satisfaction at seeing
                                                                          it

                                                                                                              a
                                              and was convinced that was a new

discovery. He took Ferguson with him, the same evening, to

meeting of the Royal Society, and got him to exhibit his

machine to the members, and to show how the delineation was

projected. At the close of the meeting, one of the members

invited Ferguson to dine with him on next Saturday, at Hackney,
mentioning that his name was Ellicott, and that he was a

watchmaker.11" Vide Ferguson's own Memoir, 49.
                                                                               p.
                                                                                                    is
   116 Bonnycastle, in his Astronomy, has an engraving of this simple apparatus,
improved, he says, hut we can discern no difference in his engraving of the figure
from that of Ferguson, excepting in this, the bottom of the candlestick round
and stands on square table instead of round one. (See-Bonnycastle's Astron
    )                                                     ;a

     It

                      a
omy.
   l17 may to many appear remarkable that Ferguson, in 1773, when he wrote

his Memoir, should have been able to remember the wry day of the week that he
went to the Koval Society meeting with this instrument. He went to the meet

ing on Thursday afternoon, he says but as the Royal Society meetings werea
then always held, and we believe, still continue to be held on Thursday,
would therefore, in this case, require no effort of the memory to recollect the day.
                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                it

(Viudes  also  note 77).  "thmeensthioonrts,  Mtheamtoi"r   of  "John          Ellicott,   F.R.S."in " The
         The   writer of                                   Mr.
                                                                Ellicott       frequently  introduced friends
fforologieal    Journal,
to tlw Society, among others, Dotland, Smcaton, and Ferguson." This, as regards
                     mistake. Ferguson in his Memoir tells us that he went to Martin
Ferguson,      is
                  a

Folkes, Esq., the President of the Society, and that the President introduced
him to the Society, in order that he might show and explain his Trajectorium
Lunare, and the delineation had made, to the members on which occasion,
                                      It it

                                                 a
                                                            it

                                                                         of

                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                         a

                                                                                                             it
t--EFhelleihrcgeocultostss,oaenysao, afnndtd"heEtEhllslailcaitcoidothtettmwweahaepostpienaagimr,wsahttoacpdhrhmeatsvoaeeknmetr,be".en"etwniohnTuehtnttieosrFFweserrtrgrigtaueunsrsgooenmnrsa,skthhefosaowtreadMhnirso.thh"iEeslrnliacmmmoaetisctth,wainkaaexet
to the Society, "stated that he had invented and coitslructed a similar machine
many years before. Ferguson doubting the truth                                 this assertion, Ellicott

incited him to dine at his house at Hackney, and there produced evidence which
                                           will
confirmed his statement," kc.                             be observed that this writer does not inform
as of the source         whence he    mleaadrened"
cott's assertion."                                        that Ferguson "doubted the truth of Elli-
                         If Ellicott
                                                          the statement," as this writer says he did,
    singular Ferguson does not tell us of in his Memoir. Again, supposing
is

"the statement" to       ohf av"ethbeeesntatemmaednet,,"  w--e swcea.rccealny  think that Ferguson would have
doubted the truth                                                              imagine in such a case, that Fer

guson would express his surprise, very different thing from doubting man's
                            JAMES FERGUSON.                                                       71

 J I"Accordingly," says Ferguson in his own Memoir, " went to

Hackney, and was kindly received by Mr. ohn Ellicott, who then
showed me the very same kind of delineation, and part of tlte
of
  it
          of

          I
                                     of
                                                   it,
                       I
                              /
machine by which he load done telling me that he had thought
      twenty years before -- viz. in 1725.-
                                                                      could easily see
                                                                            it,                   the

                                                                                     it

                                                                                              by
colour the paper, and the ink-lines upon that must

have been done many years before saw it. He then told me,

what was very certain, that he had neither stolen the thought

from me nor had from him." Although Ferguson was there

fore not the first who had discovered that " the path the moon
                                                                                     of

was always concave to the sun," yet he had undoubtedly all the

merit of an original discoverer.

   The Moon's Concave Path, by Ferguson, Engraved and
Published. -- As mentioned in note 75, Ferguson, at the sugges
tion of Martin Folkes, Esq., and other members of the Royal So

ciety, resolved to publish his delineation of the moon's concave
path.119 He made out a new projection on sheet of paper 34|
inches in length, by inches in breadth, giving the absolute

motion for space of 32 days, with a neatly-written explanatory

description above and below the delineation, with dedication to

Martin Folkes, Esq., thus: --" To Martin Folkes, Esq., Presi
dent of the Royal Society, this Plate is dedicated, by his
most humble servant, james ferguson. published june
26th, 1745, according to Act of Parliament." This plate was
engraved by Bickham, and was sold by Mr. Senex, at the sign
of the Globe, opposite to St. Dunstan's Church, Fleet Street, Lon
don. Price Is. 6d. (See note 75.)120 It now not known how this
            a
                                6g
                                                                       a

                                                                                  a

    ;

              J.

                                ,"

                                                          a

                                                                  is
word    in  s"hoarts,tasteinmceentFergwuesoanre  makes no mention in his    Memoir     that Ellicott.
made  such                                       inclined to conclude that  no such  statement was

made. Then, to give Ferguson surprise, he invites him to dine at his house,
and then and there shows him, no douDt to his very great surprise, the same sort
of delineation as his own, of the Lunar Orbit, and part of the machine by which
had been projected. As previously mentioned (note 78), Mr. Ellicott, in 1772             of
dropped suddenly from his chair, and instantlv expired. (See Horological Jour               it,
nal, vol. I., pp. 152 154, Memoir of John Ellicott, F.R.S.                                        it
   119 Ferguson,  "inTheleinttsetrrumtoenthte     Rev. Dr. Birch,      London, of
ber 1752, says,     a                            was shown to the     Royal Society  date 12th Decem
                                                                                      in the year 1745,
                        of  the moon's path, taken from a drawing made by
and a printed scheme                                                                     was

presented to the said Society the same year, being published at the desire of the- late
worthy President, Mr. Folkes." »(Sce note 115).

   U<>In same letter to the Rev. Dr. Birch, Secretary, Royal Society, of date 12th
December 752, he says, My scheme the moon's path, on a ta rge sheet paper,
      1               ''

                                 of
                                          of
is  sold by Mr. Senex, at the sign               the Globe, opposite St. Punsfan's Church, Fleet

Street, Price Is. 6d." (See letter in the Appendix).
1-1 EXTENDED MEMOIR OK

sheet sold. It has been out of print for upwards of a century.

Our fac-simile of the engraving was taken from the copy in the

British Museum, by Mr. Augustus Burt, London ; the Museum
                                                                            -- On the back of the
number and mark on which, No.
                                            is,
                                                       a

                                                                     f.
                                                                          7.
title-page of Ferguson's first work, tract, entitled, " The Use
OF A New Orreky " (published about August 1746), we find

the following advertisement of this engraved sheet of the Moon's

Path :--

"A Delineation of the Moon's Ileal Path in the Heavens, showing thatis

  her progressive motion always concave, both to the Earth within her
  orbit, and to the Sun on the outside thereof. Price One Shilling and
  Sixpence." Vide Ferguson's Tract, entitled, "The Use of a New Orrery,"
  1746-- fly leaf.

   Agnes Ferguson born. -- To Ferguson, the great event of the:

year 1745 occurred on August 29th. On this day, his first childa

was born --a daughter -- and shortly afterwards was baptized
Agnes. On one of the fly leaves of small pocket Bible which

belonged to the Ferguson family, we find the following entry in

Ferguson's autograph

                          "Agnes, born, Thursday, 29th Augt. 1745."

   To keep events in harmony with the order of time in which
they occurred, we must refer the reader to date 1763, where
will be found an account of the " mysterious disa|rpcarunce "
and subsequent life of this unfortunate lady, which, previous to
our recent researches regarding her, had been recorded as "a

mystery which never would in time be unravelled"

The Orrery. -- About the end of this year (1745), Ferguson

got the large wooden orrery finished, which, early in the preced

ing year, he, and a turner in wood, &c., had commenced to make.

In the Tract which Ferguson shortly afterwards published re

garding   it it,   he says nothing about the wheel-work numbers

which produced its various motions; but from the account he

Erives of in said tract, showed, with considerable exactness,
                                            " it

                                                               is
                                                                           is

                                                                              is
                                                                                                  :

                                                                                                       44
the following motions and general phenomena, viz.:-- The mo-

121 This Bible                 is  still in good condition, and at present the property of

Doctor James George, of Keith, in Banffshire, who kindly allowed our esteemed
friend, Mr. Robert Sim (of same place), to take a copy for us of the writings on its
several fly-leaves, all which shall be noticed in the order of time to which they
                             our addenda.    This Bible 74     inc"heLsonlodnogn,                           inches broad, and
refer, as also in              and at foot  of the title-page                                            Printed by Thomas
     inches thick
2\
                            ;
Baakett, printer to the King's Most Excellent Majesty, and by the assigns of

Robert Baskett, M. DCC. LVII.
       JAMES FERGUSON.     73

tiou of the sun from west to east on an inclined axis, (in the
centre of the machine,) and thereby, the motion of the solar
spots; the revolution of the planet Mercury; the revolution of
Venus, and her diurnal rotation on an inclined axis, which

preserves its parallelism during its annual course ; thus exhibit

       Ferguson's Orrery.

ing her different length of days and nights; her change of sea

sons;  afrnodmhetrheproegarrethss.iv--e,Alssota, tiothnearrye,vaonludtiroentroogfrethsesiveearatshpercotsunads
seen

the sun, and its diurnal rotation on an inclined axis, which pre

served its parallelism during its course, consequently, show

ed the alternate succession and different lengths of day and

night throughout the year, and the change of the seasons.

The Synodic and Periodic revolutions of the Moon were also

shown, and also the diurnal rotation, with the retrograde revolu

tion of the nodes of her orbit, and therefore, all the Eclipses of

the sun and moon. On the exterior plate, covering the wheel-

work, were two dial-plates, having indexes, pointing respectively,

when in motion, to the hours of the day of mean solar time,

and to the day of the moon's age, while a small inclined dial,

under the earth, showed sidereal time. Directly opposite to

the earth rose a shaft that carried an index which pointed out
on the great ecliptic circle (as it moved along with the earth),

the names and days of the months, and the signs and degrees

of the ecliptic. In the tract previously alluded to, which is
                                             K
74 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

entitled, " The Use of a New Orrery made and de
scribed by James Ferguson -- London, pub. 1745," at page
38 he says, that, -- " The justness of the planetary mo
tions in this ornery may be seen in the following man
ner:-- Turn the handle," says he, " till the pointer comes to

the beginning of Aries, observing at that time when the

meridian of your place is turned toward the sun ; then set

the index on the hour circle to XII at noon, and the index

on the sidereal dial-plate to 24; then turn the handle, and

as the earth proceeds forward in the ecliptic, you will see

sidereal index on its dial-plate gaining time on the solar index

in the hour circle, which will always point to the same XII.,

when your meridian turns to the sun; but in a quarter of a
year, the sidereal index will be six hours before the solar one ;

in half a year, 12 hours; in three-quarters of a year, 18 hours;

and in a whole year, 24 hours or a whole circle, which it will

have gained on the solar index in 365 days, or so many turns

of the handle. Note upon the ecliptic the day of any new moon,

and  fix a  bit of  paper  thoveerhaangdaliens2t 7h£e,rnontimthees  wall, as seen from
the  earth  ; then  turn                                            round, which will

bring the moon round the earth, so as to point from it to the

bit of paper again ; but to bring her round from the sun to the

sun again, requires 29£ turns, and the pointer on the ecliptic
will have passed over so many divisions to the day of the next

new moon, because as every turn of the handle brings any meri

dian semicircle upon the earth quite round from the sun to the

sun again, and carries the solar index round its hour circle, so

it advances the pointer on the ecliptic one day forward among
the months. Turn on till twelve lunations are accomplished,

which will happen eleven days before the pointer comes again

to the same day on the ecliptic from which you began to com

pute; and it is commonly known that twelve lunations come

eleven days short of a solar year, which is the foundation of the

epact. Turn the handle till the line of the nodes, if produced,

would pass through the sun's centre ; then note the place of the

pointer among the degrees of the ecliptic, and turn the handle

till the same node, in the line of nodes, comes between the

    I22 The.v '27J turns of the handle of the orrery appears to he a tyikigraphical

es"ercr2o.,7r,ioratisminea.irpoeruorniuodnddinc."aulmbrWeeveros,laurt2ci7onindcalovinfset8dhehtoomurtoshoi=nnkc2ot7nhJat;at itnhFseerr2eg7fuosdroean,y,sinin7stehtahodiusrosdf e42s37crJm,ipitnrie.oand5

of his early orrery gives the |ieriods and results in round numbers.
     JAMES FERGUSON.                                                         75

centre of the earth and of the sun again ; stop there, and you
will sec the pointer cut the ecliptic almost 19 degrees short of
what it did before ; then turn the handle till the pointer is car
ried forward that 19 degrees (in which time the nodes are still
moving backward) and the line of the nodes will be gone 19^
degrees backward, which is their retrogradation every year
This shifting backward, or contrary to the order of the signs, is
the reason why the eclipses happen every year sooner than they
did the year before, whereby they are gradually removed from

the consequent toward the antecedent signs. If you put a bit

of paper or a patch on the sun, over against any part of the
ecliptic, so as to be just coming in sight of the earth, and then
turn the handle 25$ times round, the sun will have carried the
paper or patch, so as to point at the same place of the
ecliptic again, but it will require two turns more to bring it in

view from the earth again, because the earth has been going

forward in the ecliptic while the sun was turning round its

axis.123

   If you observe any meridian semicircle of Venus that looks

toward the sun, and turn the handle 24£ times round, the same
semicircle will again be turned toward the sun, but he will not

be vertical to the same place as before. If you first set Venus

and Mercury by hand between the earth and the sun, and note

their places in the ecliptic, by laying a thread from it over them

to the sun, and then turn the handle 88 times round, Mercury
will be gone quite round so as to point from the sun toward the
same place of the ecliptic again. But to bring him in a right
line between the earth and the sun, or to his next inferior con

junction, will require 28 turns more, in all, 116 days.124 All
this time Venus has gone little more than half round the eclip-

123 Early in last century some astronomical writers «»ve the period of the sun's
=rotation as 25 days 14 ho., 25 days 12 ho., 25 days 6 hours, &<-. Ferguson here

adopts 25 days 12 ho. 254 days lor his period. Ahout the middle of last cen
tury, a sidereal rotation of the sun on his axis was supposed to be done in 25d.
7 h. 59 min. The true period, however, appears to bo 25 d. 10 h. 0 ruin. 2'88 sec.
1M The conjunctive period of any given planet may bo found by multiplying
     sidereal periods of revolution into each other, and                     divisor aris
the  from the difference of the periods thus: -- Required  dividing   by a   con junctive
ing                                                        the time  of the

periods of Mercury and the Earth. The sidereal period of Mercury is 87d. 23h.
=3t11h651e55m2.782E775a376r623t381h672d17s9aX.i,9sy8s7,3o6fro5w9r6dhd9ei.1cac6hi86m, dhai=.vwlliyhs9e3onm2re.1.x3pr1er2ledO9suT8schle7eled1sd,r,eecf1o6.8ir,9s7e2,l'69lo5566r93d;12d6.18ea31nc22i1dmd9a8hfayr7.lso1l.ym31,6m93.2T636h5651o56-82-2^575s6-0i22d337s6e67.7r7,-e2ao8--l7rd81p7a9ine9y9rsi6,roo9d1ua6nn=8oddf
numbers, nearly 116 days, as produced by Ferguson's machine.
76 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

tic, and therefore you must turn the handle 109 times more
round, which will complete her revolution, equal to 225 days in
round numbers. But to bring her to her next inferior conjunc
tion, you must turn the handle 258 times more round, which,
added to the former 225, makes 583 turns, equal to a year and

218 days.125
    The motions of Venus and Mercury come nearer the truth in

this machine than what is here mentioned, but if they did not,
they would still be near enough, when they are so quickly shown

as by turning the handle, which may be 365 times done in less
than a quarter of an hour, and in this quick way of instruction,
the fractional parts of hours and minutes in the annual revolu
tions cannot be observed, and consequently must bo lost as to

sense.

  I almost believe it is in vain for man to pretend to make the

planetary motions so exact in a machine as for ever to agree

Iwith their originals in the heavens; but if I was to fit an orrery

to the true motions of a well-going clock, would at a small
additional charge make it so, as when moved by the clock, to
perform the earth's annual motion in 365 days 5 hours 48
minutes 57 seconds ; 12u its motion round its axis (or sidereal
day) in 23 hours 56 minutes 4 seconds 6 thirds ; 127 its solar or

natural day in 24 hours; the moon's motion round the earth
in her orbit in 27 days 7 hours and 43 minutes ; 12s from new
moon to new moon again in 29 days 1 2 hours 45 minutes ;
Venus's annual revolution in 224 days 17 hours ; 129 her diurnal

125 To ascertain the conjunctive period of Venus with the Earth, see rule in last

note. The sidereal revolution of Venus round the Sun is accomplished in 224d.
Kih. 49m. 10'93s., which, when decimally expressed, is 224700821 days ; and
the sidereal revolution of the earth round the sun is done in 365d. 6h. 9m. 10 11s.
                                                                                   700821 =
decimally expressed,  365 256367 davs ; therefore,     --365140256535657546X  224
82073 405540377307,   and 22470082*!-- 365 256367                             for  a divisor.
                                                 = 583-9215 days, reduced is 583d.
Hence, 82073-405540377307-^140-555546

22h. 6m. 57 '6 sec., a conjunctive period close upon that  produced           by this orrery.
                                                           5h. 48m.           57s. by means
  12" It is quite impossible to produce a period of 365d.
A iINtsof wheel-work; the nearest            to
                                                       =a period is by the ratio or wheel-
work Ferguson uses-- viz.                    =
                                approach         sneh  -- 143175 -^ 392

                                 x 6V x'j'j                                   365 d. 5 h.
48 m. 5878 a. How Ferguson may have obtained his ratio of-rf^rVj will be
found in note 133.
   127 This period of 23h. 56m. 4s 6thds. may be ascertained thus: -- The sun
makes 365 apparent revolutions round the earth in a year, the stars 366 revolu
tions. The solar year is 365d. 5h. 48m. 51-6, or decimally, 365-242264 days, to
which add one day," and it will give 366 242264, that is, the sun makes 365 242264
=apparent revolutions round the earth in a solar year, and the stars 366-242264
ievolutions. Therefore, 365 242264 -=-366 242264       99726957 of a solar day;

ryy#6^fe of a day is 23h. 56m. 4s. 5-45thds., being the true period, and is nearly
w liat is shown by the orrery.
                              JAMES FERGUSON.                                                        77

motion in 24 days 8 hours ; Mercury's annual motion in 87 days

23 hours ; 130 and the sun's motion in 25 days 6 hours. How
Inear the truth these are, leave to the judgment of those who
                                      thLeoncdeloenst,ia1l 7m46o,"tiopnps.."3--8 --(V4id1e);
have read astronomical accounts of
Ferguson's " Use of a New Orrery.
also, see notices of his future orreries under their respective

dates.

   We now annex a plan and section of the wheel-work of
this orrery, accompanied by a full description of the ma
chine, extracted from Ferguson's " Select Mechanical Exer
cises," a careful perusal of which will enable any practical
mechanic to construct one for himself.131 -- " In the annexed en

graving, Fig. 1 is the ground-plan of the wheel-work of the orrery.
The numeral at each wheel shows the number of teeth in that

wheel, and the shaded parts show where the teeth of anyone wheel
take into the teeth of another, as the one turns the other. Fig.
2 is a section or side view of all the wheel-work that can be
brought into sight. But in this, some few wheels cannot be
shown, for in the orrery itself, take a view of the wheels on any
given side, some of them will be unavoidably hid from sight by
others that are between them and the eye. Those that come in
sight in Fig. 1 have the same numeral figures set to them as the
like ones have in Fig. 2, and also the same letters of reference ;

1M The true mean periodic revolution of the moon is accomplished in 27d 7h.
43m. 467s., aml a mean synodic revolution in 29d. 12h. 44m. 2 88s.
129 Venus's mean tropical revolution round the sun is performed in 224d- lBh.
41m. 31 05s., rotation on axis not known. Mercury's mean tropical revolution
round the sun is done in 87d. 23h. 14m. 35 98s., and the sun's rotation, 25d. lOh.

0rn. 2"88s. During last century    the solar    rotation was                   variously estimated by
astronomical authors at 25d. 6h.,  -- 25d. 7h-  58m., -- 25d.                  12b., and at 25d., 14h.,
&c. Ferguson has adopted the minimum of these periods, all which periods
correspond in round numbers to the periods shown by this orrery.
13(>The tropical revolution of Mercury round the sun is accomplished in 87d.
23h. 14m. 35 98s. This orrery period of Mercury is therefore 14m. 36s. minus
the13t1ruFeermgeuasnonp, eirniodhisof"thSeelepctlanMeetc. hanical Exercises,"
                                                                                does  not give  the  d"iaTmaebtleesr
<>tfhe wheels and pinions of this orrery, they are only                        to be  found in  his

and   Tracts,"  from which    they have been taken, and are                    thrown into      "thTisabdleesscarinpd
tion  in order  to render it  more practically useful. (Vide                    Ferguson's

Tracts," pp. 160--167, 1st Edit).                                                     " Select  Mechanical
   After a lengthened search for a copy of Ferguson's
Exercises," we were at last successful in procuring one at an old book stall in

Edinburgh, in July 1827. After a careful study of the arrangements of the sev
eral wheels given in Plates 6 and 7 of this book, and the description of them there
given, we commenced making one in October of that year (all of brass), and
finished it in May 1828, and enclosed the wheel-work in a case of 12 sides, as is
shown in the print of the external view of the orrery. The wheels were only

Jd part of the diameters here given.
78 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

            Plan of the Wheel work of Ferguson's large Orrery.

                    Section of the Wheel-work.

and therefore, in reading the description, it will be necessary to

look first at and then at Fig.iswhich means the reader
            is it,         aa
will see the position of these wheels in respect to each other, asD C it, 2,

they are placed higher or lower in the frames which containby
                                                       by
them.

;A       A a round immovable plate supported                    1       four pil
   A
     A                                                            6 by
lars some of the wheels are below but the greatest number of

them are above it. It supports and bears the weight of them all.

B        the axis of the handle or winch which all the wheels

     is

are turned on its axis  wheel of 74 teeth, and 12 inches
         ;

in diameter, which turns wheel of 32 teeth, 80 inch in
                                   JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                            79

diameter, and D turns E, a wheel of 73 teeth, aud Oil inches
in diameter, on whose axis is awheel F of 32 teeth, 180 inch

in diameter, turning a wheel G of 160 teeth, aud 8 97 inches in
diameter, which turns a wheel H of 32 teeth, aud 180 inch

in diameter, and H turns a wheel I of the same number and
diameter, on the top of whose axis is a small wheel K of 12
teeth (just under the Earth), which turns a wheel L of the same
number aud size, and L turns such another wheel M of the

same number. The axis of M inclines 23£ degrees, and the
earth at the top of it is turned round by                                                The wheel H of
                                                                                O G it.
32 teeth turns a wheel of the same number and size as H,
                                       is N
on the top of whose axis an index which goes round a circle

of 24 hours (on the plate that covers the wheel-work), in the
time the earth turns round its axis. The wheels and could
                                                                                         D                                 E

not be shown in Fig.               2,  because the wheel of 74 teeth hides

them from sight.                                     a is            a wheel             of 64 teeth and

   On the axis of the wheel N

    60 inches in diameter, turning contrate wheel of 30 teeth,
Q, 3                                                                                     3
    16 inch in diameter, on whose axis                                  is  an endless screw of                               a
                                                                                           P
single thread turning a wheel of 63 teeth, inches in dia
                      I                              Q

meter, which carries the moon round the earth in her orbit, from

    change to change, in 29 days 12 hours and 43 minutes. This

    wheel of 63 teeth turns wheel of 24 teeth, '23 inch in dia
                            a
                                    a

                                         S

                                            R

                                                                                               1

                                                                                          a
                                                                                                          is
    meter, which turns wheel of 63 teeth, same in diameter as

      round in 29 days 12 hours and 45 minutes, on whose axis

an index that shows the days of the moon's age, on circle of

    29£ equal parts, on the plate that covers the wheel-work.132

    185 We do not know by what process Ferguson obtained the numbers of his
    wheel-teeth for his lunar train, as the application of continuous fractions to the
    determining ratios for wheel-work was unknown until within few years of his
                      it
                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                     is a
    death, and        could not therefore be by such process. It probable that be
                                                                                         Rev. Or. W. Durham,
    followed or modified the roundabout      --wa"y  laid down              by  the      number of pinions you
                                                     Determine              on  the
    in his "Artificial Clockmaker," thus:
    would like to use, and also on the number of leaves in each. Multiply the num
    ber of leaves and this will give the numerator of the ratio, and with which the
    period of the lunation must be multiplied, and the result will give the denomina
    tor of the ratio sought." This           tedious process, because the denominator must
                                       is
                                          a

    come to whole number, or at least as nearly so as possible. We will give an ex
                is aSuppose Ferguson determined on two pinions of leaves each, then
    a8mxp8le=.
                = =6-4, the numerator of the ratio sought, aud 29d. 12h. 45m. decimallv ex
    pressed,
                         29 53125 therefore, 29-53125 64 1890-00000, which gives the
                            ;                                        X                   a
                                ;                                                           8

                                                                                                    it a
    denominator of the ratio hence,             a                   the ratio sought. Were wheel of 64
                                                    is
    teeth to revolve in 24 hours and drive wheel of 1890, such wheel would revolve

    in 29d. 12h. 45m.; but as 1890 teeth        cannot be used in one wheel,                                               requires to
    be broken down as follows -- viz $J
                                             X     as adopted by Ferguson in this and his

    other orreries.     By  thaedofopltlionwgintgheraptiroosce--isA of continuous fractions, to                            determine
    such ratios, we   find                      :                     lunation of 29d. 12h. 44m.                           2'887s.=.
NO EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   On B, the axis of the handle is a pinion T of 8 leaves, ^5
inch in diameter, and turns a wheel U of 25 teeth, 222

29'5305887 decimally expressed; hence, the prime solid or fraction of ^."sffi'J'&j
which, on being reduced by this continuous fraction process (to be fully ex
plained in the next note, in finding numbers for an annual train of wheels), we
arrive at  the following           ratios :--,&, 3%.                                                      sV5, t1|t. tIWt, sYsYir. *<;.,
although                          be found in tins accurate
           ySJj is not to                                                                                process, yet by an engrafting or
avidz.din^g j+of ttUhet--fourttIhjtia-nd  the sixth  ratio together, we obtain Ferguson's numbers,
                                          Ferguson   seems never to have been able to get wheel-
work to produce a lunation more exact than 29 d. 12 h. 45 m. (a period about 57
seconds too slow in a lunation) excepting in one instance in which he uses a large
wheel of 235 teeth, and a pinion of 19 leaves, which will be noticed in our de
scription of that orrery. Fig.                     1 in   the  annexed                                   einfgrsauvcihngbeshaodwospteFde,rguwseonw'soualdr
rangement for the wheel-work                        of   his   lunation                               ;

suggest conlrate wheel 30 to be made a bevel wheel, and the upper half of the

                                                         Fig. 1.

whole of wheel 6 J bevelled off to correspond to -- the lower half being left plain,
2
                                                           1,
                                                                        2.

                                                                                it,
                                                                                    a
would work same as shown We would recommend the arrangement shown in
Fig. in preference to that in Fig                        thus doing away with contrate and bevel
wheels altogether, as also the screw, and giving more simple and much better

                                                         Fig.

action for these wheels: -- thus, wheel 64 becomes useless, and on its axis pinion
                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                                                                 9a
of leaves turns in 24 and drives wheel 30, and its pinion of drives 63 round
8                               is h.
       d.
                        a
in 29 12 h. 45 m. We may here note that the last lunar ratio but one we

here give, t|i8T cannot he adopted, because 25101 when divided by leave
2789, which is             prime          number, and therefore                                        cannot be             futhrtuhse:r--rie?dxu?ciexd-;£rtVhe
next ratio above           this           ^5%, and which can                                          be arranged

pinion 12 turns round in 24 h. and drives wheel of 52 teeth, havmg 011
                                                         a
                                                              a
                                                                            a
its axis wheel of 22 teeth that turns one of 58 teeth, on whose axis
2                                                                                                                            d.
                a                                                                                                                             d.

                                                                                                                                                        2 h.
                                                                                                                                                                 is
                                                                                                                                                                     a
wheel of 53 teeth, which turns round wheel of 137 teeth in 29 12 44 m.

881 s. The true mean period of lunation being 29 12 h. 44 m. 887 s.;
                                              the most perfect that can be found clear of prime
therefore, this last train                is

numbers. A very simple and tolerably accurate train may be obtained by
                                                                                                                       1447     49
                                  lunar                  together, -- viz.                                                          If we take the
jtj? itadding the following
                                              ratios                                                                   S^S andJ2
                                                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                                                                        9,
f2rre9av-c5ot3li0uo9tni6o4nrf.b=--t 22399wd2.ilml12apyrobde4u4bcemro.ke2np6esdr.i,oowdbneoinifngt2o9a u. 12           =44 m. 26 s. as 2392 -=- 81
                   it                                                                                              h.
                                   h.                                                                 period         within 24 s. of the true mean
                                                                                                      52 and         46, and 81 into and and
                                                a
                                             JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                            81

inches in diameter, which turns another wheel V of the same

number      and size,                 on whose axis is a pinion W of 7                             leaves, {'fa
inch in    diameter,                 which turns a wheel X of 69 teeth,                            412 inches
Yin diameter, on whose axis is a pinion of 7 leaves,
                                                                                                                                                     inch in

diameter, which turns a wheel Z of 83 teeth, 612 inches in dia

meter, once round in 365 days 5 hours 48 minutes 57 seconds,

and carrying the earth round the sun in that time,133 for in

the train will become ft                            pinion 9 revolves in 24 h. and turns wheel 46, on
whose axis is also a pinion of 9 leaves, which turns wheel 52 once round in 29 d.

                           2) He>u -9|fcBBHHFirfjte^6

12 h. 44 m. 26 s. ; lor u train of two wheels and two pinions, this is perhaps the
most simple and accurate train, free of prime numbers, which can be found. See
the annexed section for arrangement of the wheel-work.
133 As we have already remarked, the art of computing ratios, and trains
of wheel-work, by continuous                 fractions,             u"nkCnoouwrns       until the year 1771, five
years before Ferguson's death.                Camus,      was                          de Mathematiqtits," Paris,
                                                         in his

1767, gives rules for               determining         trains for planetary revolutions, but in a way

psaogveseryoftehdisiou"s,     that  "feawre  would  be   found to trouble themselves with it; several
                           Cours             taken  up
                                                        with the problem of a motion derived from 12
hours to produce a period of 365 d. 5 h. 49 m. Probably it was by such a process
as Camus s, that M. Passeman took 20 years to calculate trains of wheel-work
for the solar system, which could now be done in as many days by the applica
tion of continuous fractions (or doctrine of exhaustions). Benjamin Martin of
London introduced the method of wheel-work calculations, by continuous frac
tions, in 1771, and about the same period it was successfully carried out by
An tide Janvier of Paris, in the computation of the wheel-work of his great Pla
                                                         so much    iWn iallpiapmlyingPeacrosnotnin, uwouhso,                                        fractions
netarium. Perhaps no one                      has done   Rev. Dr.                                                                                    between
to wheel-work, as our late                   friend the

the  hyisearlasrge180O0rrearnyd--1P8l2a0n,etmaraiduem  a--garenadt   many calculations           by this  new                                        method
lor                                                                 Satellite machines.

Referring to Camus's prohlem, viz. given a prime mover of 12 hours; query,
the wheels and pinions necessary to produce a motion of 365 d. 5h. 49 m.? after
a lengthened and very                te8ind3tioXou6sw9hXper2eolc5ses=sa, n1dh4e31pa7inr5ri,iovneassn, datth7utXhse7:--Xso4wlihd=eefrl1sa9c6t8.i3o,n   of t^Wtsi
which he breaks down                                                                                                                                 69, 25, and
pinions 7, 7, 4, that is,                                                                                                                            Instead of a
mover of 12 hours as in clocks, let us suppose one of 24 hours, as used in orreries,
and the solid fraction will become -rfVrVsi an(l the wheels and pinions as follow :
-- 83, 69, 25 for the wheels, and 7, 7, 8 for the pinions; that                                  :
                                                                                                     is,

                                                                                                                 d.
                                                                                                                     5

                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                   suppose pinion
of leaves turns round in 24 hours and drives wheel of 25 teeth, which has on
8                                            5
         a7 a                                    h.

                     x                                     a
                                                                               a
                                 7,
                                                                                   by
its axis pinion of which drives wheel having 69 teeth, on whose axis
pinion of leaves, which turns wheel 83 once round its axis in 365
                                                                                                                                                     h. 48 m.
                                                                                                 -- the solid fraction
ft5877 s., very close approximation to the period proposed                                       for the annual train
                       x   -jV' tue exact numbers used
uWrs =                                                                                 Ferguson

in his best orreries and astronomical clocks.

We shall now give an example of continuous fractions as applied to finding out
ratio for period of 365 d.                             48 m. 55 s., being the mean length of year as
a                                                                                                  it
                    a
                                                                                                        :
                                                                                                                a
estimated in Ferguson's time.                       Before going    tinotobethcisonpdruocbteledm, ,thuswi--ll                                        be neces
sary to give the rule by which                      the process is
                                                                                                                                                     Any ratio
between two given numbers being proposed, consisting of many places of figures, to
           of integral numbers that shall be the nearest                               that given  ratio.                                              Rule.
find seta  the consequent by the antecedent, and the                                   divisor by  the first                                         remain
-- Divide
der, and the last divisor by the last remainder, till nothing shall remain, in the
same way as finding the greatest common measure for any two numbers then,
                                                                                                                                                     ;

                                                         L
82 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

this wheel are four short pillars, whose upper ends are fixed iuto

the lower plate of a moveable frame aaaaaaa (Fig. 1), that

lor the terms of the first rutio, unity, will always be the first antecedent, and the
first quotient the first cousequent ; for the second ratio, multiply the first antece
dent and consequent by the second quotient, and to the product of the antecedent
add 0, and to the consequent, add 1, and the sum shall be the terms of the second
ratio. For the following ratios, multiply the last antecedent and consequent by
the next quotient, and to the product, add the last antecedent and consequent
but one, and   the sum shall be                                  antecedent and consequent. It
!«' remarked,                                 the present                                                 may
               that if the terms              of the given       ratio are not prime to each other,       they

must be made so before the proposed operation is begun.
Attending to these rules, we shall proceed to the solution of the question of the
                   In   tvhaelufeirstthupsla:c--e,5            period of
period  proposed.                                    the      48 m. 55 s.       365 d. 5  h.   48 m.  55 s. must be
thrown  into a decimal                               h.                                   of  a day;  consequently,
                                                                                = 2423

365 "2423 days is the period decimally expressed, and as the axis which is assumed
to turn once round on its axis in 24 hours is the prime unit from which the an
nual motion is to be derived, it must necessarily be expressed by a unit, and as
many cyphers as there are figures in the expression of the fraction of a day, which
JJin the present case are four, then 1 0000 is the antecedent, and 365 2423 the con

sequent ; therefore, the solid fraction becomes yJ^J T, and as they are prime to
each other, the operation may be proceeded with.

Operation:-                                               Therefore                                                    Hatio.

100u0)365 2423(365. 4. 7. 1.6. 1.1 quotients,                                0  X365+         A = rls lst-

        365-0000                                                             rfj X 4+ j =                 2d.
                2423)10000(4
                   9692

                   308)2423(7                                                rAT * ' + lis = Tt?Aj 3d.

                                        2156

                                        "267)308(1                           ttNt»X 1 + t*T= Tdfcj 4th.

                                              267

                                              41)267(6                       T.#5Jx 6 +1^= rffb 5th.
                                                   246
                                                    2D«(1 jlHox 1 +Tri&j= »»8t 6th.
                                                          21
                                                          20)21(1 ,tM, x 1 +52iro= ttYAj 7th.
                                                               20

                                                              1

The  =las3t65ru-t2i4n22t9iV98sV=t  comes      very near   upon the period proposed, for 177873 -^
487                                365 d.     5 h. 48 m.  54 s. 42thds., being only 18 thirds, minus

the period required ; but such a fraction becomes useless in practice, as 487 is a
        number, and therefore cannot be                                            The ratio next the last one
prime                                                         reduced.          d. 5h. 48 m. 55 s. 23thds.,        is
5532j,   and 94963-^260 = 365 2423077,                          or 365                                              a

period making an yearly error of 23 thirds too slow ; but as this solid fraction
is not prime,   it is capable                 of being    reduced into fractions          suitable    for a train  of
wheels, and    becomes a very                  desirable  ratio ;-- thus, --

        11)94963                                                                2)260
          89)8633 h
                    97                  n X 89 X 97 = 94963,                 2^and        or 2 X 10 X 13
                                                                                5)65

                                                                                13

This fractional ratio will therefore be -fa x J1J x                             but as the first part of the frac
                                                                              by some number
Stiuopnpofasecwaennmotultbieplyuseidt,    it  5m, uthset nbefamxu5lti=plied  which is precisely   so as to raise it.
as -fa; the working or                  by                                                       of the same value
                                        practical fraction therefore becomes 35 >
                                                                                                 Tf. x £f = j^Jgj ;
Therefore, let a pinion of 10 revolve in 24 hours and turn a wheel of 55 teeth, on
whose axis is another pinion of 10, which turns wheel 87, which has a pinion of
                               JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                   83

turns round on a fixed upright pin in the centre of the plate

A A A A, and contains the above mentioned wheels belonging

to the Earth and Moon, so that the whole frame goes round the
centre pin in the same time with the wheel Z.

   This last wheel cannot be seen in Fig. 2, because it lies
within the thick wheel G, which is only a thick ring, having
160 teeth on its outside. Its innermost side is represented by
a dotted circle in Fig. 1, and it is kept in its place by three
rollers marked * * * which turn upon pins fixed in the great

immovable plate A A A A

   As the uppermost edge of the contrate wheel F (Fig. 2) must
come a little way through the plate A A A A, in order to turn

the ring wheel G that lies on the upper side of this plate, and as

this wheel turns the wheel H of 32 teeth that belongs to the
Earth's diurnal motion, it is plain, that as the wheel H must go

round G, in a year, by the annual part of the work, G must be

thick enough to turn H at such a distance from or above the

13 that turns 97 once rouml in the period of 365 d. 5 h. 48 m. 55 s. 23 thds. (See
the annexed section of the wheel-work). Had Ferguson been acquainted with thls

Amethod of finding trains to produce accurate periods, he would undoubtedly have

had recourse to it. Instead of always keeping fast to the train of fs * x pro
ducing 365 d. 5 h. 48 m. 5877 s., being an yearly error of 3 77 s. slow, he would
                     othuirrdnsumtoboersslolw^, --x^a xp^erJiodpromduucchingnea36re5r  d. 5h. 48                           55 38 s.,    *
have discovered                                                                        than the                        m.   seconds
which is only 28                                                                                                      377

per tropical year.
Ferguson's numbers, T^rfYx is not to be found in the above ratio in their na
tural fluxion, but nevertheless they may be produced by an ingrafted process, as
           -- Take                                                it by 11 (instead of 6), and then
follows:  it the 3d  thraetio4ththruasti:o--ti^st  ond  multiply
add to
             hVsj x 11 + -i3s?i = TiViVs = Ferguson's fraction.

But as Ferguson appears to have known nothing of this method wheu he made
his calculation, his fraction could not be produced by such a method. We are
inclined to think that he arrived at the solid fraction t^YtVj by the "nne process
we have given in our last note, viz. by determining on the number of pinions and
the leaves each should have, so that their united value, employed as a multiplier
on the year period, might produce a whole number, or one very near to it ; after
             a
                                                              8 7,'
                                                                       7
                                                                           a 8,
                                                                              7

                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                a
a great many trials with pinions of 6, and diversified in every manner of
way, he would discover that the only arrangement with three sets of pinions
             into each  other, and                  used  as      m=ult3ip9l2ier    for                          the  period of
multiplied    pinions   of ,8.7. 7.  again                                        and                            365  2423x392   the
year, were           decimal,                      --x      x
                                     thus:                                                                                        =

                               nearly equal to 143175,            number                                         cap=ab5le8sXof  being
                                Ferguson therefore adopted        the
if 'fa143174 9816,                                                                                                                x Js
reduced into 25 x 69 x 83.                                for producing the period of his solar
             accurate ratio that he could find            Ferguson's period of solar year in
as the most  have thus been particular with

year. -- We
order to show how he probably found his ratio, and also to show how such calcu
lations arc performed with greater ease and accuracy.
St EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

plate A A A A, that wheel H may go over the top of F without
touching it ; otherwise, when H came round to F, it could nut

pass by, and would stop the annual motion.
   In the centre, just above the upper surface of the moveable

frame, plate aaaa, is a fixed wheel b of 40 teeth, 2-95 inches

in diameter, taking into the teeth of the wheel c, which has also

the same number of teeth and diameter; and these take into

the teeth of a third similar wheel.rf. The axis of this last wheel
                                        tight at K
is hollow, and the top of  it is fixed                   (see- Fig. 2)  in the
                           the Earth.    This part       of the work    keeps
piece K L M that carries

the Earth's inclined axis in a constant parallelism in its annual

course round the sun ; for as d is connected with the fixed wheel

b by means of the intermediate wheel c, and c rolls or goes round

b by the annual work, and as b. c, and d have equal numbers of

teeth, d must always preserve its parallelism throughout its

annual motion.134 The axis of b is fixed into the immoveable

plate AAAA, and it is hollow, to let the axis of some wheels

below that plate turn within it.

  The solid spindle or axis of the wheel I of 32 teeth, turns

within the hollow axis of wheel d of 40 teeth ; and on the top

of this solid spindle is the small wheel K of 12 teeth, which
turns the earth round its axis by the wheels L and M, of equal

number and size with K, as already mentioned.

The hollow axis of the parallelism wheel d is within an up

right socket, whose lowermost end is fixed into the top plate

(marked 56 in Fig. 2) of the moveable frame aaaa, and on the

/top of this socket is fixed a small wheel e of 16 teeth, which

take into the teeth of another wheel of the same number and
size, on the axis of which is a long pinion g of 16 leaves, which

take into the wheel h of 16 teeth, whose axis is hollow, and has

The earth's axis does not maintain a constant parallelism. The axis of the
'wijsahrMrt.helmcuhooarfves4in0asgu,d,kc.hi"nitdawwemoiflmol tcaiaodocnencicotianmhlispamlniwsohhoteiroreaenl rcytriorocwuhunhaitdivcehrtohaewusnelopdwmiletahsmdeeooptfiionotlehnse--18e2inc8ca,lui2ps5ietn8idcs6,t8eiatasndtidodeoarnfectac"ltohameyfepiarxlairststteh,l

   turn round its axis in 25868 sidereal years, and in doing so, communicated the
      ' motion to the other parallelism wheels, and thus caused the axis of the earth
a revolution round the poles of the ecliptic of the orrery in 25S68 of its
irs'.      The                                c, of 40,   although it rolls round   in
       n  fixed  second parallelism, wheel   it makes    two rotations on its axis  in
                 wheel ot 40 in the centre,
This fractional of the annual frame within which it moves, and thus so operates
tion fx cannot bcnelUm wheel d, of 40, as to make it turn no way at all ; any
Suppose wemultiplji'irface of this wheel d always keeps directly in a line with
as y*t; the working orreat distance. In nature, the parallelism is not a constant,
Therefore, let a pinion tmoving at the rate of 501 seconds annually, or through
whose axis is another pin.f the ecliptic in 25868 sidereal years, as stated.
                                           JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                                                                                                                     85

a black cap on the top of it covering just one hall' of the Moon.

Now, as the socket, on whose top the wheel e is placed, is fixed
into the annual moving frame, it is plain, that which ever side

or tooth of the wheel e is once toward the Sun will always be
so; and therefore, as the wheel /, the pinion g, and the wheel h, go

all round the wheel e by the work that carries the Moon round

the Earth, and all these have equal numbers of teeth, the wheel

h will always keep the front part of the Moon's cap facing to

wards the Sun, and show her to be always full as seen from the

Sun, but continually changing her phases as seen from the

Earth in her going round for when the Moon between the
             is a
                                           it,

                                                                                    is is
Earth and the Sun (as represented in Fig. 2), her cap will hide
the whole of her from the Earth, but when she opposite to

the Sun, all the half or side of her next the Earth will then ap

pear like full Moon before the circular edge of the cap, and

when she mid-way between these positions, or in either of her
quadratures, she will appear just half enlightened as seen from

the Earth.

     The axis of the wheel of 63 teeth, which carries the Moon
                                   is

                                               ;

                                              Q

                                                         2)
                                                           is
round the Earth, hollow, and turns round upon the before-

mentioned fixed socket to the top of this axis (just under the
                                                                  fixed the bar i,f, which car
wheel of 16 teeth, in Fig.
          e

ries the Moon round the Earth by the motion of the wheel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a is
     On the top of the axis of the wheel of 40 teeth,                                                                                                                                                                                  awheel
                                           a                                                                                                                                                                                                       Q.
                                                       l                                                                                                                                                                                            k

                                                                          c
of 5£) teeth, which turns wheel of 56 teeth, which causes the

nodes of the Moon's orbit to go once round, with retrograde

motion, through all the signs and degrees of the ecliptic in 18|
years.135 The axis of                            hollow, and turns upon the hollow
                                           al
>35 The nodes of the moon's orbit perform retrograde revolution through all
                                                 d. is            d. a
                                                                      6
J|t=bHheefr1|ads8cisgyt5.ine2oasonrmfsam.n,2duy2ace3ndadergure2ne§2dts§he§erofJt-dr4tush3fe.eam:r.opeffecrForliiempoyrtdegiacubrs,eioin--nsngu,6fbo7i§tnr9dr8as§a.cdltsleo. hdfiosfhflr.ayoremyg4aee6ra--rmtohr.ra,etr2ioe4ors3,fisin 6798 2819 days
                                                              h.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   assumes 223 to
                  d.               h.                                                                                                                                                                                                   d.
                                       is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              it

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     d.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          d.
             a    h                                               a               is it                                                                                                                                            of a year nearly,
                                                                     a
a                   if ;                                                               is                                                                                                                                        49654  or 243
      h.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ferguson's will
=show an emu' of fully 19 days, plus, in the period of the revolution of the nodes,
                                   J
thus:-- 223 d. 22 h. 43 m.-- 243 11 52 m. 19 13 h. m. error too slow
                                                                             d.
                                                                                            9

=in each nodal revolution.                                                                                                                                                                                                         his period of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   as the nodes are
nodes, he would reduce
retrogressive the must                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The 56 being
                                      Ferguson   hthauvsin: g--a1ss8uxm3e+d 218§  years as
                                   his fraction                                   56, and
                                   be added to 56 for next wheel thus: --
     y.
                 d.
                               :3
on the middle wheel of parallelism of his orrery, takes into and drives wheel of
59 once round, backward, in 18§ years, or 18 y. 243                                   11 52 m., instead of                                                                                                                         d.
                                                                                  d.                                                                                                                                                   6a
                                                                                            h.                                                                                                                                             h.

18 223 22 h. 43 m.
The period of the nodes derived from solar year found by the rule given in
                                                       a                     is

=our hist note thus -- The mean tropical period of the nodes 6798                     is                                                                                                                                                       46 m.

     6798-2819 days, and 365"2423 that ot the year, which, when the two periods
                  shewn in our             last, give                            IS.                                                                                                                                               .1 .6, &c., and as
are  treated, as  as follows: --                                  the quotients     .11
per  rule, work                                                                             .1
86 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

axis of Q, and on the axis of l is a circular plate m (see Fig. 2)
fixed obliquely on that axis, and parallel to the Moon's orbit.

The work that carries the Moon round the Earth carries also

the piece g round upon this oblique plate, and as the lower end
of the Moon's axis (which turns within the hollow axis of her cap)
is fixed into the piece g, it causes the Moon to rise and fall in her

oblique orbit according to her north or south latitude or declina
tion from the ecliptic. As the nodes of her orbit are even with

the plane of the ecliptic, one half of her orbit is on the north

side, and the other half on the south side of the ecliptic.
   On the axis of the wheel X, which has 69 teeth, is a pinion

n of 10 leaves -l5^ inch in diameter, turning a wheel o of 73
teeth 5 82 inches in diameter, which carries Venus round about

the Sun in 224 days 17 hours.136 The axis of the wheel o is

                      0 X18 + £ = tV 1st ratio.
                      tVx 1 + f =tV 2d ,,
                      tVx                =
                      sVx      1  +V»    =  3V    3d                                                                           ,,
                               1  +tV
                                            A     «h
                      AX A1 + f,V = 5*
                      Ax « + A=/ft °th ..

In this case the antecedents and consequents, or numerators and denominators,
                                   the second node wheel ; in the 4th ratio will
must he added together to produce  3 = 59, and thus is produced his fraction of
be found Ferguson's numbers 56 +
$8 = 18§ years. Had Ferguson adopted Jths. instead of ijds. of a year, he would
come within 5         days of the truth, instead       of                                                                          The 5th   ratio ,,^ or
Jjhave                the wheels : if a wheel of       93  19^ days.                                                               place of  Ferguson's
                                                           he used in
93 +
5 = 98,          for
56, and a wheel of 98 instead of his 59, such a train will produce a period ot l
years=18 years                                                                                                                     18 h. 35 m. minus the true
period. The 6th  219  d. 3 h. 29 m., a   4p- e3r3io=d  4 d.                                                                        and |}^, requires compound
                  or  last ratio of 614                647,

wheel-work, and as 647 is a prime number, and therefore not reducible, recourse

must be had to higher ratios.
I"6 The true mean tropical revolution of Venus round the Sun is performed in
224 d. 16 h. 41 m. 31 s. Ferguson here gives 224 d. 17 h. as the nett produce of

his Venus train, whereas it ought to be 224 d. 20 h. 47 m. 8 s., if we take the
wheels he gives for this train, and work them out, they produce that period. Thus,
the value of wheel 69, of his annual train, is 30 '8035 d. (see last note on the Sun)
= |J30 d. 19 h. 17 m, 2 s. ; therefore, as Ferguson uses                                                                           for his approximate value,
If = =we have the question, 10 : 30 8035 : : 73
= ^ &224-86555                              ? thus,       308035 X 73                                                                22486555-M0
         224 d. 20 h. 47 m.; or,            Xx                                                                                     and 125925-^560
= 224 866071 4 d. or 224 d. 20 h. 47 m.                4$ = x#if?i5-                                                               17 h. as given by
                                             8 s.,
                                                       and not 224 d.
                                                                                                                               to his "Tables and Tracts,"
adFneodrwgnut,osoihnnis.ste"aOdSneolefrec2fte24rMriendc.gha2t0noichFa. el r4g7Euxmseo.rnc'i8ssesA.s--,s"trtohwneeomfrienyad,l
                                                                                                                               the same 224 d. 17 h. written
                                                                                                                               wheel-work period. This is
singular, and suggests that his pen had made :i slip when first working out the
result of his period for Venus, and that he had never afterwards tested it.
To the orrery maker it therefore becomes necessary to have a nearer ratio for his
                      As by former rule, take 30 80357 and 224-6955 (the period
wheel-work than       expressed) and we have the       fraction
                      to the rule formerly given,      produces
of Venus decimally                                                                                                                 tftVhWe Vfo&lloVwinwghicrha,tiowsh: e--n
reduced, according                       gives Ferguson's numbers. If we adopt
I »V »i +X, t¥v The fourth rutin         a period of 224 68486 days = 224 d. 16 h.

-,Vt instead of them, we shall obtain
26 m. 12 s., which is within 16 minutes of the true mean period ; whereas, 48
                                         JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                               87

hollow (because another axis turns within it), and on the top of

it is fixed the lower plate of the frame pppp which carries

Venus round the Sun, and has wheels within it belonging to

Venus and Mercurv.

   Under the lowest plate of this frame is a fixed wheel q of 74
teeth 61 2 inches in diameter, being of the same diameter as

wheel Z of 83 teeth, which gives the Earth its annual motion,

so that in Fig. 1, one and the same circle represents both these
^wheels. A pinion r of 8 leaves
                                                           inch in diameter takes into

the teeth of the fixed wheel q of 74 teeth, and is carried round

it by the motion of the frame pppp that carries Venus round

the Sun ; consequently, in the time this pinion is carried round
the wheel, it will turn 9^ times round its axis, equal to the
number of Venus's days and nights, in the time she goes round

the Sun.187

    The wheel q of 74 teeth is fixed on the same (before-men
tioned) socket, on which the wheel b of 40 teeth is fixed. The
top of this socket goes through the lower plate of the frame

pppp, and a wheel s of 28 teeth, 1'74 inch in diameter, is

fixed upon the top of this socket, just above the same plate.

Another wheel t of 28 teeth takes into the teeth of s, and is

carried round it by the motion of the frame, and a third wheel
u of 28 teeth (which is also carried round by the frame) takes
into the teeth of t ; the axis of u is hollow, it turns upon the

solid spindle or axis of the pinion r of 8 leaves, and on its top

is fixed the curved piece v (see Fig. 2) that carries Venus on
her inclined axis, which, by means of the three last-mentioned

wheels of 28 teeth, is kept in a constant parallelism in going

round the Sun.13s

gives an error of 4 h. 20 m. 56 s. Therefore, instead of a pinion of 10 on the
shaft of wheel            a pinion of                 and let it drive          =wheel of 124 teeth,
and this will   69, have  the period     17 leaves,    (308035x124         =a
                produce                  as noted                               381964268-^17

224 68486 as given).
   137 During the latter   half          of last century,  BaiIadtnochphatsieudi'b--seevnpize.froi9ouJdndd,oayf hsVoewinneuviste'ssr,
nal motion appears to     have           been universally                                                                              diur
each of its days being    equal           to 24$ of ours.                                                                              year,
                                                                                                                                        that

Rianchiui was wrong in his measure. Venus's rotation is performed (according
to Oassini) in 23 hours 20 minutes 55 seconds.
13s These three wheels of 28 teeth are subject to the same laws and give the
same results as the three wheels of 40 teeth each, which preserve the parallel
ism of the earth's axis --viz. the first wheel of 28 teet h being fixed, and the other
                ;
                                               it,

                                                                          it
                                                                                       is

                                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                             it,
two so connected as to roll round        produces the following results the second

wheel of 28 teeth, rolling round in the teeth of the fixed wheel of 28, performs
              arolltat"ionhsowonevietsr  axis, while                   of        driven by
two complete                             paradoxical  the third wheel      28,  nevertheless                           moves
                                                      this may seem,                                                 strictly
"no way at
88 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

On the top of the axis of the pinion r of 8 leaves, and ju.st

above the curved piece v (Fig. 2), is a small wheel                                                                   of 12

teeth, which turns another wheel x of the same number and

size, and this last wheel turns a third wheel y of the same num

ber, which is fixed on the axis of Venus, and turns her 9£ times
round her axis in the time she goes round the Sun, which is

just as often as the pinion r turns round in the time it is car

ried round the fixed wheel q of 74 teeth.139

On the top of the axis of the middle wheel / of 28 teeth, is

another wheel of the same number and size, which turns a

wheel /S of 18 teeth, 112 inch in diameter, and this wheel

turns another wheel 5 of the same number and size, whose axis

is a hollow socket, on which a bar y (Fig. 2) is fixed, and this
bar carries Mercury round the Sun in 87 days 23 hours.140

   On the axis of the wheel X (already mentioned) of 69 teeth
is a wheel t of 78 teeth, which turns a wheel x of 64 teeth once

round its axis in 25 days fi hours. The axis of this wheel

turns within the before-mentioned hollow arbours in the centre,

and on its top is the small wheel x of 12 teeth, which turns

another wheel | of the same number and size ; this last wheel

cMoerrcehcta.nicaTlimExreearcdiesresw,"illarftinicdleth"is   point ably  dPisacruassdeodx,"bypFageergs u4s4o--n  in his " Select
                                                            Mechanical
                                                                                                                 71. (See also
Ferguson's Mechanical Paradox in the present work.
   las Ferguson adopts Bianchini's period of rotation, and it is now universally
admitted by astronomers, that "Bianchini greatly erred." The axis of Venus
is nearly perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic, and she performs her rotation
in about 23 h. 20 m. 55 s. , and not on an axis inclined 75" to the ecliptic, and in
24J days as given out by Bianchini. (See note 137).
    ·4*  The period of Mercury here                         givIetnw, il"l 8p7redseaynstly23behsohuorwsn,"
period    produced by the wheel-work.                                                                        is not the real
                                                                                                            that Ferguson's

wheel-work for the period of Mercury produces a period of 87 d. 23 b. 47 m. 8 s.
                          uses one of the parallelism wheels of Venus as the unit of                                  his mo
tFieorngu--sovniz.  here  has on the axis of the middle wheel of parallelism 28,                                      another
                      he

wheel of 28 teeth which drives a wheel of 18 teeth round m 87 d. 23 h. 47 m. 8 s.
It must be recollected that the middle wheel of parallelism, in rolling round in
i|,the teeth of the fixed wheel 28 on the centre, turns twice round on its axis, and
that circumstance         alters the   =valu1e'555o5f 5t,he4cp.,rimwehicfhracotfioncouorfseitsis            period ;          the
fraction here used,       is 28-^-18                                                                        not the   relative

ratio of 87 d. 23 h. 47 m. &c. , to 224 d. 20 h. 47 m. 4c., but as this wheel of paral
lelism   turns twice      on its   axis in one              revolution    of Venus, the fraction
treated    as follow:     -- viz.                                        2 '55555, which is the                  }f must                                                                                                                                be
                                   28 + 18 =                46-^-18 =                                            number                                                                                                                                 of
times that Mercury's period is contained in that of Venus, -- thus -- 21* assM =87
                                                                                                                 In
Jd. 23 h. 57 m., 4c., which                                                                                      of

the ratios for this train to
                                   is  a period too much by              about 12   minutes.                         reducing
                                   a   more accurate period,               we find  the ratios
                                                                                                                        |, ft,
J ft&legaxcisv.atecanrtalnyteoioatfhreVbayephpna7rulo,fsa--aconhfdvFieztao.rdgMdu2isen2or4gcnu'6tsor8yf4'ri8sta6cptth=ieeornio2pd2ri4§e, c.adend. Iidfnlg«mwehao.yandebo2,ep6to-mfbta.htxea1in7c2eo+rsdr.e, cbtyae=ndmdiuVtlritrnaispiJntleytahiwndeeg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           is

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      have
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of a

wheel of 28 on the middle parallelism wheel, we have one of 101 teeth to drive a
                                                   JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                 89

is fixed on the Sun's axis, it turns in the piece 6 (Fig. 2), and

turns the Sun round his axis in 25 days 6 hours.141

   The Sun's axis inclines 7£ degrees from a perpendicular toit,
the ecliptic; Venus's axis, 75 degrees; and the Earth's, 23£.
                              ;
   The Earth turns round within a black cap, that always covers

the half of which at any instant of time turned quite away

from the Sun the edge of the cap represents the sola horizon
                                                                         is
or circle bounding light and darkness
                                                                                   ;

                                                                                  it is

                                                                                          is

                                                                                                   r
                                                                                                    supported by a

     crooked wire whose lower end                                                    fixed into the plate that
                              P

     covers the wheels, and carried round by the annual motion-is

     work. An index (called the annual index) goes round the
     ecliptic by the same work, keeping always opposite to the Sun,

     and showing the days of the months and the Sun's apparent

     place in the ecliptic as seen from the Earth.

       On looking at Fig.                                     may appear to many, that the wheels
               F
                                                                                                    F,
                   a
                                                                                                        is
                    E                                                                                                   by B

                         G

                                    F 1,

                                            it
if C,    D, and are superfluous, and that the wheel which gives

     motion to the toothed ring G, might have been upon the axis
     of the handle. For as has 32 teeth, and H, that turned

     the teeth of (and turns the Earth round its axis), has also 32
                        and H would turn round in equal times and conse
     teeth,                                                                                         ;

                                                                                                          a
     quently, turn of the handle would have answered to turn of

     the Earth on its axis. This indeed would have been the case

       the Earth had no annual motion, but as H goes round in a
     year, in the same way that turns round, H loses five turns
                                                                7G                                                         d. G
                                                                                                                                   h. in
wheel of 65, then this wheel of 65 will revolve in 87 97849 days, or 87 23h.

     20 m. s., which              is    period of only minutes fast of the true mean revolution
            1                        a

of Mercury, whose period 87 23 36 ui. See also calculation annexed toit, is d.
the tabular view of the wheel-work of this orrery at the conclusion of the descrip
                                           d.
     tion.                                     6 is
   141 The rotation of the Sun
the addition of two wheels to                                 derived    from the annual train of the Earth by
                                                              -- viz.    wheel of 78 and one of 64 hence, the
                                                                Xa                     = rto'JSo'.                 ;
     train for the Sun's           rotation        becomes ^5 B'5 x,     £j                         w" hthiceh,Tawbhuelnarrevdiuecwed,of6
     the25W2h7e4e7l2-w5 ordkay"s                    h. 35 m. 36 s. as                given under
it is                             = 25
        will be observed,
                                  at the conclusion of          the description of      this        "o2rr5erdym. ls        Ferguson,
                                     gives the rotation         by his wheel-work        as                                    hours,"

and has omitted the 35 m. 36 s. which his wheels really produce. The true mean
                                                                m. s. or 25 4168 days nearly. To obtain
solar rotation done in 25 10
                          is
                                                   d.
                                                              h.
                                                                   0
                                                                            1
                                                                                  ,

this period             we   may take the value of              /=5      x^ff the first part of     the train,               and   b=e
longing to              the                                              y^Js, and 17254-56                                  days
                             annual wheels ^ x^,                                                    = 30 8035

the value of rotation of wheel 69. Therefore, as the solar rotation                                                  performed
                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                             is

                                                                                                                       it,
                                                                                                                                 d.
in 25'4168 (lays, their relative values become as the fraction $$:f£}£, and this
reduced according to the rule already given, leaves the following ratios-- viz.
                                         *c rotation                     very near the  true period may be had
^t>«i It- ii<                 l=astg$ra-t3io0-8b0ut35oxne52by=             and adding                                              by
  tmhuulst,ipl3ymgXg lXtih}e                                                            =the preceding one to                      --
                                                                         16017820-M>3
                                             ;                                              25-4251 days, or 25
                                                 a
                                                       a
                                                                   d. 1,
                                                                         6
                                                                                   a
10 h. 12 m. s. Therefore, instead of making wheel of 78 to drive one of 64,
            a
                       8
cause wheel of 63 teeth to turn wheel of 52 teeth, which will produce a period
within 13 minutes of the true value, 25                                  h. 35 m. 36 s. the period of last cen

tury        is          24 m. 24 s. minus the modern value given to the rotation.
               3
                    h.

                                                                M

                                                                                     /
90 EXTENDKD MEMOIR OF

going round G (for 5 times 32 is 160, the number of teeth in

G), and then the handle would have turned 370 times round in

the time the Earth made 365 rotations. To prevent this, and so

make the turns of the Earth and handle agree together, C has
74 teeth and E only 73, so that the wheel E will turn five times

oftener round than the handle does in 365 turns thereof ; and

consequently, make the Earth's daily rotation equal to a turn

of the handle, or to 24 hours mean solar time.142 (See Fer-

Ferguson describes this motion correctly. It is evident that the wheel H
in going round the ring-wheel G, in the same direction as that wheel turns, must
lose 5 rotations on its axi9, and the handle would in that case have had to make

J370 turns in 365 days, and the wheels 74 and 73 he employs make the turns of the
handle and the    3sa7ex0viesr:a:ol7f3et?hr--reo3res7a0irntXht7ht3oe=a"gpr2ee7re0io1;d0sf-o^r"77o43f=isF3e46r;g5ou=fst3oh6n5e's,  and 74 is of 370       ;
and hence, 74 :                                                                                                                   rectification sought.
                                                                                                                                  orrery in the Edin
    As there are

burgh    Eisncgyicvleonpa:e--dia  (vide  note  87,  p.  52),    the  following   corrected table of the
periods

Tabular           View            of  the Motions,           WOhrereelr-yw.ork,  ami Periods, of
                                           Ferguson's

            Motions.                                Wheel-work.                                                                   Periods.

....Earth's Diurnal motion,                     YxV <V                           365 d. 5h. 48 m. 5877 s.
                                                y x«,»x?i                          29 d. 12 h. 45 m.
A Lunation,                                                                        25 d. 6h. 35 m. 36 24 s.
Solar rotation, . . .                             }| of Venus +1
Revolution of Venus, .                                                           224 d. 20 h. 47 m. 8 57 s.
Revolution of Mercury,                          A of its Revol.
Rotation of Venus,                                                                 87 d. 23 h. 47 m. 8 57 s.
Moon's Node,                                   JO x 40 X 40 years.                 24 d. 7h. 26 m. 10 65 s.
Earth's Parallelism,
                                                                                                18$ years.
                                                                                      0 deg. 0 min. 0 sec.

                  figures exhibit                            solution of the periods derived from the
                  the precedmg
V=iThe following                                              VfrV 5 an<1143175-^392 = 365-2423469

wheel-work in
                                         taabplreac:--tical
The Earth's diurnal motion, V X V *
                                  y = =days; reduced, it is 365 d. 5h. 48 m. 58'77s. as above.
A Lunation                               j$ X                        »nd 1890-^-64                                                29 53125 days;
                                  y Vreduced, it is 29 d. 12h. 45m. 0 s. as above.
Solar Rotation,   ...                    x x {>*= 1                  and 110400-^-4368=25 274725

                                  yxyx y(y =days ; reduced, it is 25 d. 6 h. 35 m. 36 -24 s. as above.
Revolution of Venus,              .                 fj=>             » and 125925-^-560                                           224 8660714
                                                        it is 224 d. 20 h.
Revolution of Mercury,            da'ys ; reduced,      = 28+ 18= 46,              47 m. 8 '57 s.                                 as above.
                                   . of Venus                                    and 46 -4-18=2                                    '555555556
Rotation of Venus, .              and 224 866071        4 -^2-555555556
Moon's Node                                                                      = 87 '991071 4                                   = 87d. 23h.
                                  =47 min. 8-57 sec., or 224-8660714 X 18
                                                                                                                                  40475892852 -^
                                  =46 87 9910714 ; reduced, =S7d. 23 h. 47 m. 8 57 s.
                                  ^ =.
                                  =-^
                                         74fromo2f45-a390--R98e54v65o5l=uti=3o,n,2a4n2dd2.4th-78e6hr6e.0f7o21r64emb.eXc1o8m0'e6s51s7.98-a92n8d575162-^
                                  3
                                       1
                                          8
                                                                    ;0
                                                                            ;0
                                                                                               y.
                                                                                                             d.
                                                                                                           h. jfr
                                                                                                                                  ;2 ,d.
                                      = 18$ years as above.
                                         '666666 x 365 -2423469 =6817 8568986384354                                                         or

Earth's Parallelism,              = =6817 d. 20 h. 33 m. 56 s., or 18 243 11 52 m.                                                          the
                                  . t.hirdWhweheelel4040Jh=ced       the second wheel 40

                                  its parallelism.              hence, the third wheel 40 preserves
                                                    JAMES FERGUSON.                                        91

guson's " Select Mechanical Exercises," 2d Edit. pp. 73 --87;--
and Ferguson's " Tables and Tracts," 1st Edit. pp. 1G0-- 167 ;--
also, Brewster's Edinburgh Encyclopaedia, article, "Planetary

Machines.")

The following Table exhibits the arrangement and resulting periods of the ntw
wheel-work, calculated by        us, for                                               in the motions of the
Moon, the Sun, Mercury,          Venus,                 insuring   greater  accuracy    Ferguson's orrery. --
                                                         and tho   Moon's   nodes, in

The explanations in previous notes show how the new wheels are to be connected
with the old train used by Ferguson.

                   Motions.                                Wheel-work.                    Periods.

Earth's Diurnal motion,                                 V xv xV                      365 d. 5h. 48 m. 5877 s.
A Lunation                                                                             29 d. 12 h. 44 m. 26 s.
Solar Rotation, . . .                                   VxVx W                         25 d. 10 h. 12 m. 8 s.
Revolution of Venus, .
Revolution of Mercury,                                  -rVrof Venus+1.              224 d. 16 h. 26 m. 12 s.
Rotation of Venus, .                                    ,ft of its Revol.              87 d. 23 h. 29 m. 1 s.
Moon's Node, . . .                                                                     24 d. 22 h. 31 m. 8 s.
Earth's Parallelism, .                                           Tribes
                                                                                                   18§ years.
                                                          40x40X40.                      0 deg. 0 mill. 0 sec.

According to recent observations, it has been ascertained that the mean length
of a solar or tropical year consists of 365 d. 5 h.
48 m. 55 s. as adopted during the greater part                          48 m. 51 6 s. , and not of 365  d. 5 h.
                                                                        of last century --afterwards,   365 d.

5 h. 48 m. 48 or 49 s. The period 365 d. 5 h. 48 m. 51 6 s. (a mean between them)

Ifhas been found to be the more correct period, and is that at present adopted.
it is required to ascertain a series of                    fractions for    wheel-work to  p1r3o3d, u--cevizs.ucthhea
motion, we have to follow the rule                         and process      given in note

period of 365 d. 5 h. 48 m. 51 6 s., decimally reduced, is 365*242264 days ; hence
the fraction becomes jfJVilaVj^*, and, according to said rule, as the nominator
and denominator of this large fraction do not stand prime to each other, they
imm3must be made so, otherwise                                  be dealing with the
                                                    we  would   value to rfgoijojo.,;  multiple of a prime
»m<i1t%*+l+*-^2 =
                                                          = in                         therefore, ^^o^

being prime to each other, they are now to be reduced as per rule, and the trac
tions arising from the several quotients obtained will be                                  TJ\T, n?&j>
                                                     &c.,-- the fraction .^,=3654
d.          =Si*365Tdo.liT5h. .  -aJSb.             5-43 s.-- s£f^ -- 865 d. 5h. 48m.     54h9.1947ms..--3517J1Ts--.:
    5                                                                                     s. In reducing the
      h. si,                       49 m.
riHij--tdT&^*.sT

365
                   48 m. 51 95 s. ;--                      -- 365  d.       48 m. 51 564
                                                                       5
                                                                           h.
                                                                                               a
                                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                                          ;;
two last solids into fractions, we get on prime numbers unsuitable for wheel-work
we shall therefore have to adopt process discovered by us, about ten years ago
                                                        a

which we have used since, and                           obtained    the greatest     possible accuracy in  num
bers for planetary revolutions.                                    for example,      take the fractional    ratio
                                                         If we,
                      tdVj   -- nWo'rj' we here                         by random,
Tta^kfeJTtxo3V2ji-f  *" "ie                                     adopt,  jffo'dx*,      32 as multiple, and
                             additive fraction, we              obtam                  ratio which capable
                   a
of being reduced into smaller fractions suitable for wheel-work, and at same time,
                        d. jperiod so close to the tropical period of the earth, as almost to
produces
                                            a
                                                 a
=be identical with it. We believe this reducible ratio cannot be surpassed in
point of accuracy, lor 2278016-=-6237                              365  d.           48 m. 51-6017 s., the true
                                                                             5
                                                                                 h.

period being 365 oh. 48 m. 51 '6000s. We may here remark that T0||y may
tie multiplied by any given number, and any of the ratios given may be added,
and the result will be ratio close on the original period, but prime numbers
will be met with on reducing them, so high, as to render them unsuitable
lor wheel-work. After great many trials with numerous multipliers and
additive ratios, we have         found                  none reducible to produce                    near as
the ratio i^VsVfSi -- of         being                  reduced into fractions for     a  period so  -- from
                                                                                        wheel-work,
                                     EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   The Moon's Rotation Discussion, and Three-Wheeled
Orrery. --The rotation of the Moon on its axis was a subject

which was much discussed about the end of this year (1745),
and it continued to be a leading topic of debate for many years
afterwards, some admitting that the Moon did rotate, whilst the
many denied its existence. This was an opportune question of
discussion for Ferguson, so soon after his arrival in London, and

this ratio l5V*Vnt = ths x tVj x -fVs = 365 d- 5 h. 48 m. 51 6017 s. We

annex a sectional plan of the wheel-work, and shall here merely note, that
in the section, pinion 9 must turn once round on its axis in 24 hours, and
drive a contrate wheel of 104 teeth, with its teeth looking downwards, (in order
that the last wheel in the train may turn round in the proper direction). Wheel

104 has above it a small wheel or pinion of 21 made fast to
                                                      d.                                                                               which turns wheel
                                                          a                                                                                               a

                                                                h.
                                                                          2 it,
of 14S teeth, and has on its axis small wheel of 33 teeth, that turns wheel 148
                                       a

                                            it

                                                   a
once round in 365it              48 m. 51 6017 s., and bar on its axis will be carried
                    d.
                        5
                             h.
round along with in this period. In giving this extremely accurate ratio to the
public, we are induced to append to                   train of wheels equally accurate for the
period of mean lunation, which consists of 29 12 44 m. 887s. Immediately
above the small wheel 21 (on the axis of wheel 104, of the annual train),aa
                                                                                                                                                                   it is  .

made fast wheel having 53 teeth, which drives a wheel of 87 teeth, and on the
saim socket, under it, riveted wheel of 88 teeth these two wheels are here
                           is          a                 ;
                                                                        ;
supposed to move round on the shaft of the middle wheel 148, but they ma3" be
placed on stud by themselves in any convenient position but m the present
        a

case, assuming they turn round on the axis of the middle wheel of 148 teeth,
must be understood that they do so, not fixed on said axis, but both turning round
h.
                2

                            it,
                                   it
together loose upon and have therefore no connection with the motion of the
axis of said wheel 148. The last-named wheel 88 being fast on the socket of
wheel 87, turns round with in the same time, and turns a wheel of 137 teeth --

(which turns   loou on the axis of the last-mentioned wheelis  of 148 teeth) in 29 days
12 44 m.       881 s. -- For wheel 53 of the Moon's train      made fast to the axis "of

wheel 104 of   the annual   train, which   turns on its  axdis.--inthe1r1ef'5o5re5,555l5i-5i5i5giSd^aySs:f--J
the lunation,  decimally                  29 5305889673
                           expressed =
=days the fractional expression of the ratio, and on being reduced according
d.                         will                                                                                                                                    to
    is
                                                                                                                                                                   --
           h.                                                                                                                                                      or

                       it
rule in note 133,                he found that VWiV   is rhe nearest reducible                                                                             ratio,
                                                                                                                                                          days,
11-5555555555 X 11919            1377306666660045     4664 = 29-5305889078

        apnldan44-. tfmsOV. ro2t-h=8e86wr7W7h4e7xe2l-Swis.o.,r»krthm(SetaxytrtubVee*.dmetmehaeonnwsthpreeaertielosddutsbheued isnag--nd
itiiih' =29 12                                                                                                                         :               29 12 44 m.h.
                                                                                                                                         h.
2-887 s.,                                 29-5305889, &c.=29d. 12                                                                                        as added in the
sectional                                                                                                                                          > d.ygj x TaV --
        an.1 1239576-r-41976                                                                                                                           44 m. 2-881, &c,
s., as m former result. Thus, we have given to the modern orrery-maker num
bers for a mean solar revolution of the Earth round the 8'un, and mean synodic
                                                                                                                                                       a

revolution of the Moon round the Earth, so accurate, that «e venture to say that
      not probable they will be surpassed.
it
    is
                                     JAMES FERGUSON.                   93

offered an excellent opportunity to him for the display of his

astronomical talents and ingenuity. Ferguson took the proper

side of the question, and ably aiid successfully demonstrated
that " tlui Moon did rotate on its axis during its period
ical revolution round the Earth." 143 To the many, how

ever, an ocular demonstration was necessary, and Ferguson

observing this, invented and constructed a simple, but very in
genious and effective machine, which he afterwards called a

Three- Wheeled ORRERY, and which satisfactorily exhibited
the existence of a rotation. This machine will be found de
scribed, with an engraving, in Ferguson's " Dissertation upon
the Phenomena of the Hai-vest Moon," &c., pp. 49--72 (publish

ed in London in 1747).
    We annex a cut of this machine, reduced from the engraving

in said book, and shall describe its several parts and its use, aa
it is now scarcely known.

                                       Ferguson's Three-Wheeled Orrery.

   Description of " the Three- Wheeled Orrery." -- " A A and B B

are two fixed plates kept together by pillars, as in the figure.

    148 The Moon's rotation question was revived 11few years ago, and was dis
cussed by parties who did not appear to be well read on the subject of compound
motion. As it would be difficult to give a mathematical demonstration of tho
Moon's rotation without the aid of a diagram, we shall confine ourselves to a
popular illustration of the question which will be understood by all.
   In the first         we may mention that the Moon, in its revolution round the
earth, always    place  the same side or hemisphere towards our earth -- it does this
                 keeps
     virtue of its rotation.
by  Illustration. -- Place a  table  in  the centre  of a room,  and on the middle of it

set a terrestrial globe -- let this globe be the representative of our earth. Next,
94 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

D, E, and F are three wheels of equal numbers of teeth, biting

into one another; so that if any one of them be turned, the other

two turn equally round with     is                and turning the same way,
                                        it,           DF

                                           D                I,
and          the contrary. On the axis of                                   and of (above the
plateBE                                                                            kC F

                     G                                                                  C
                                                                                           i,

                                                                                           L

                                                                                                            of
             B), at and H, fixed the crank and the crank K,

whose perpendicular shanks come through the plate                                                                  at and

M, within which plate they easily turn. The bar has one

its ends fixed into the plate A A, and has screw, as on its
                                                                            a

other end, which, being screwed into a table or wall, will keep

the machine from shaking, while the moveable parts of are
              by
                                     Z h.
                                                            V,

                                                           B
                                                               B

                                                                                               b
                                                                                         is is

                                                                                           it
wrought             the handle         In the plate                            at                              fixed the

wire a, having the globe on its other end hanging over the
'centre of the wheel F. On the shank as an axis, fixed the

globe W and the index M, and on the other shank the index

       fixed. The crooked wire has its lower end fixed in the
L                                      d,
              at p, and its upper end into the cap X, within which
     is                                  Y
          C
                                              it
           C
plate
the ball W turns freely round. In the other end of the plate
             fixed the wire U at whereon the globe
B                                                     R,                                                       hangs over
   B                                                         Q,

         is                                                      C
                                                                    C P,

                                                                          S
the centre of the wheel G, so as may freely turn round on the

wire. To the globe                     fixed the piece                      from which comes
                        is                                                                                         Oa
                             S                                        of such a length as to
                                   is
small wire that         fixed in the cap

allow the cap to turn freely round the globe whose axis

inclines 23£ degrees, being fixed in the plate                                     at N; and from

the globe proceeds wire which always p3mts toward the
             /*         P. a           T

centre of the globeS

Having fixed the machine to a table by the screw turn the
                                                                                                               i,

handle and you'll see all the wheels and cranks turning equally

round with the handle. By the cranks, the moveable plate                                                           C
                                                                                                                      C

carried over and over the fixed plates, in parallel motion,
is
                          q,

                                                                                                            ;

                                                                                   a

                                                                  if
without turning round any axis whatsoever for a seaman's

compass, as be hung on this plate, the same points thereof

suppose your head to represent the moon, then walk slowly round the table,
keeping vour face all the while directed to the globe, (ns the Moon does to the
Earth), and you will find that during your circuit round the globe, with your face
always directed to it, all the sides   the room come successively and directly be
                                       of
                                             is
                                                  is,
                                                                                    a
                                                                                    it
fore your face. Now stand still, and make an effort to bring in succession, all the
four sides of the room directly before your face, as                  they  came when   cwaanlkbinegdornoeu, n--d
the globe, and you w ill fmd that there only mtc                      way   in which

viz. turnmg round upon yourself, that             by performing motion of rotation.
In walking round the said globe as directed, eeery side of the room came into
view, and directly before your face.. Standing    saansmdteilld,ciaruaesncedt,ly--robvteaizfto.irneginyuwopuaorlknfiancygeo,ur--rosuetnhlfd,e
also brings all the sides of ths room into view,
effects being similar, they must arise from the
the globe you performed rotation exactly as done by the Moon durmg the
                        a
                                                                  is

period of her revolution round the Earth.
JAMES FERGUSON.                                          95

will constantly look to the same points of the horizon, and will

always stand perpendicularly over the same parts of this moving

plate which never changes its parallelism from the fixed plates ;

but the shank or axis V turns the index M quite round a gra

duated circle on the plate C C, marked 1, 2, 3, 4, in every revolu

tion of the handle. And at the same time the globe W, on which

this axis is carried round about Z, to which it still keeps the

same side, but shows itself quite round to all the points of the

horizon, and turns round within the cap X, which still faces to

wards one and the same point thereof; because it is fixed by the
crooked wire Y into the plate C C. In one revolution W will see

Z all round, because Z turns not ; but if the cap X be taken away,

and these globes connected by a wire, they will turn equally

round their axes, and will constantly keep the same sides to one

another ; in which case, either viewed from the other, would ap

pear to be at rest on its own axis ; but viewed by an eye at rest, and

at a distance from them both, they turn equally round their axes.

Now as the index M and the globe W are both fixed on the

shank or axis V they must turn equally with it ; and as in every

revolution of the handle, they both show themselves round to

all the fixed points of the horizon, the index turning round a

circle which keeps parallel thereto, and the globe turning round

within a cap which still looks to one point thereof. It is plain
that both the globe W and the index Y do each turn round an

axis or mathematical line within itself, as the shank V necessarily

does ; and this shank might be fixed on any place of the crank

K (provided the other shank was fixed on the like place of its

crank, without which the machine would not perform), for it

would still turn the index and globe round the same way as it

now does by being fixed to the end thereof whereon it stands.

Therefore, while the whole crank is earned round the axis H of

the wheel F, every atom of the crank must turn round an axis

or mathematical line, within itself ; and the whole being carried

round through different points of space, in the time that every

part or atom turns round its own axis, their cohesion cannot be

destroyed, nor the crank reduced to dust." (Ferguson's Essay

on the Moon's turning round her own Axis, pp.  65,  67,  and 70).
                                                    few   wheels,
At page 70 of the same work, Ferguson says,    "A
by a multiplied motion, from the axis of the index L to the

Earth's axis, would give the Earth its diurnal motion, which
r.c; EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

any skilful mechanic might easily contrive." Ferguson kept
this hint in mind, for shortly afterwards he calculated and
arranged the "few wheels" necessary, and introduced them into
a very simple machine which showed the Earth's rotation. Vide
"The Ckank Orrery," pp. 127 -- 130.

                                                             174C.it,                     it
                                      is
   Projection of the great Solar Eclipse of 14th July,                                               is
1748. --Early in the year 1746, Ferguson calculated the times of

beginning, middle, and end of the great eclipse of the Sun, and

the digits obscured, which was predicted to happen on 14th July
1748. After having finished his calculations, he made a careful

projection of the eclipse, had it engraved, and shortly afterwards

published, with a description of engraved on the plate. This

one of those early literary productions of Ferguson's now forgot

ten and unknown. The following a copy of Ferguson's adver

tisement of the projection of this eclipse, taken from page 2d

of that now very scarce Tract of his, the first of his published

works, entitled, " The Use of New Orrery," published in Lon

don in July 1746.)
      " A Projection of the Sun's Eclipse, aa will happen on the
      14th of July 1748, in the forenoon, at London, Edinburgh,

        and Rome, by James Ferguson. Price One Shilling."
                     a
                                       it

Having published his projection of this eclipse early in 1746,

and as the eclipse did not take place until July 1748, the

projection was therefore on sale two years before                                         took

place. Ferguson probably published his projection so long be

fore the event happened for the purpose of making known to

the public his powers as an original calculator, and thus to pre

pare the way for his lectures on this eclipse, which were delivered

before considerable  audiences    in174se8v--eraSl olpalracEesclipinseL).ondon            dur
ing the year 1748.     (See date

     Tract entitled " The Use of New Orrery," published
by Ferguson. --About the month of July 1746, Ferguson pub
A

         :

            of
                                                     a

                                                                    by
                                                                                      by
lished his first work, a small 12mo tract of 42 pages, entitled

" The Use a New Orrery made and described James Fer

guson London, 1746." This tract            Ferguson appears to

have been written and published by him for the purpose of

making the public aware of the merits and accuracy of the large
                     JAMES FERGUSON.                               97

wooden orrery, which he had got completed in the previous

year. In his preface he gives an explanation of the term orrery,

and alludes to several early astronomical machines which ex
hibited the motions of the celestial orbs ; after which, he gives

a minute description of the appearance, the motions, and the
general phenomena arising therefrom, in his own recently con

structed orrery, and which we have described (see the orrery,
date 1745). The frontispiece of this tract has a large and ele
gant folding engraving of the external appearance of his orrery,

which is the same engraving he afterwards prefixed to the

several editions of his celebrated work on Astronomy, from

which we are inclined to conclude that although Ferguson did

not construct the wheel-work of any two of his orreries alike,

he appears to have, at least in his large orreries, preserved the
same external appearance. This frontispiece (reduced) will be
found at the beginning of the description of the wheel-work of
this orrery, under date 1745, when it was finished. This tract
is now exceedingly scarce. We only obtained our copy, after

a search of several years.

  The Phenomena of Venus represented in an Orrery.
--Towards the end of this year (1746) Ferguson made a

delineation of the apparent path of Venus as seen from the

Earth, deduced from their motions and positions during the

period of their conjunctive revolution (a period of 583 days).
After finishing his delineation, Ferguson wrote out a con

cise account of and presented to a member of the Royal
it

                it,

                         p.

                           is

                                       it
Society, who shortly afterwards showed the delineation at a

meeting of that body, and read the paper descriptive of it.

                                                              it,
The members, after the said paper was read, applauded and

ordered to be recorded in their Transactions, which was duly

done. The following  the title of the paper in the abridged

Transactions of the Royal Society.

" The Phenomena op Venus as represented in an
Orrery, by James Ferguson."
Abrid. IX. 226, date, 1746.                Vide Phil. Trans.

   In delineating the apparent path of Venus as seen from the

Earth, Ferguson, in the 138th section of his Astronomy, men
tions, that he made use of the orrery represented on the frontis
piece, facing the title-page of that work consequently, the orrery
                     N

                                      ;
98 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

he finished in 1745 is the same one he refers to in his Astro      '
nomy, 1st Edition, 1756. In using this orrery for the deline
ation, he removed from it the halls representing the Sun.
Mercury, Venus, the Earth, and the Moon, and put black lead
pencils in their places with the points turned upward ; this
done, he then fixed a circular sheet of pasteboard so that the
Earth kept constantly under its centre in going round the Sun,
and also kept its parallelism ; then by pressing gently with one
hand upon the pasteboard to make it touch the three pencils,
with the other hand he turned the winch that put in motion
the machinery of the orrery. After having performed the
operation, he inspected the tracings made on the under side of
the pasteboard by the orrery pencils, and found that the Sun
had described a circle, whilst the pencils of Mercury and Venus

described looped curves, Mercury making the greatest number
of loops, Venus the least, in accordance with the relative times
of their revolutions. He afterwards confined his views to an

exact tracing of the apparent path of Venus seen from the Earth
as deduced from the orrery, and made it the subject of the paper
already referred to, and which was read by one of the members of
the Royal Society at one of the meetings of that body about the
end of the year 1746. Of this orrery, see our remarks on its
wheel-work under date 1745 ; also, Ferguson's Astronomy,
Section 138; and for an engraving of the apparent paths of

the Sun, Mercury, and Venus, see Plate III. Fig. 1 of same

work.

   The Fduk-Wheeled Orrery. -- In the summer of this year

(1746), Ferguson invented and constructed an orrery having

only four wheels, and without either pinion or screw. As for

merly noticed, this very simple orrery nevertheless exhibited the
Earth's annual motion and the parallelism of its axis; the alter

nate succession, and different lengths of day and night through

out the year, and the beautiful change of seasons; the Sun's
place in the ecliptic; the Sun's right ascension, amplitude,
and declination ; as also solar and sidereal time; the periodic,

synodic, and diurnal motions of the Moon ; its age and phases ;
the retrograde motion of the nodes of its orbit; and conse

quently, all the eclipses of the Sun and Moon.
   In his " Dissertation upon the Phenomena of the Harvest
JAMES FERGUSON.                                                  99

Moon, and Description and Use of a New Four-Wheeled

Orrery," Ferguson gives a large folding engraving of the
exterior of this orrery, and with great minuteness describes its

external parts, its motions, phenomena, &c., but says nothing
about the internal mechanism by which so many astronomical

particulars were exhibited ; his not having done so was the
cause which induced the public of that day to consider this
orrery " a mechaniad puzzle and a paradox.'' Few could ac

count for so many astronomical motions and phenomena being

produced by four-wheels only, and that too without the aid of
a pinion or a screw.

The internal mechanism of this orrery was known to but few

until the year 1756, when Ferguson published his great

work, "Astronomy explained upon Sir Isaac Newton's Prin
ciples." In chapter XII. of this work he describes his astrono

mical machinery. In section 399 of this chapter he gives an

account of oue of his astronomical machines, which he desig
/nates The Calculator,                   Into which, he says, "
                        alluding                                 the

year 1746 contrived a very simple machine, and described
/its performance in a small Treatise upon the Phenomena of
the Harvest Moon, published in 1747.     improved it soon

after by adding another wheel, and called it The Calcula
tor." 144 From this it is evident that the internal mechanism

of the Calculator, with the exception of an additional wheel, was

precisely the same as that of the four-wheeled orrery. Having
in our possession a copy of Ferguson's " DisseHation" we have
looked carefully over it and compared the engraving and de

scription of the orrery with the engravings and description of

his Calculator in his Astronomy, and out of them have made a

sectional view, which we shall presently describe. In the

meantime, we give an engraving of the exterior of the four-

wheeled orrery, reduced from the original in Ferguson's book,

and also extracts taken out of his description of it. He says,
   " In this machine, S represents the Sun, E the Earth, and M

the Moon. W, a wire is fixed in the Sun and points toward

the Earth's centre, but does not touch its surface, because of the

graduated arc G, which is fixed in the south point of the horizon

H4 The additional wheel here referred to was an apogee tcherl, or rather pulley,
introduced for the purpose of showing the menu phiee of the Moon's apogee in the
heavens, and regarding which the reader  will find details in the description
                                                                               of
the Calculator, under date 1749.
100 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

H, and must go round with the motion of the Earth, so as not

to be hindered by the said wire. The horizon has all the points

of the compass drawn upon           and likewise a graduated circlea
                                           ; it,
showing the degrees of amplitude both of the Sun and Moon.
                                                      a
                                    The Four-Wheeled Orrery.
                                                                              ;
The graduated arc has its degrees numbered from the horizon
                                                                   is it

                                                                                is ;

                                                                                 it is a

                                                                                                          is, is
to the zenith upon one side, for showing the altitude of the Sun

and Moon as they pass over the meridian and on the other side

graduated from above the equator to the tropics and little
it
    is

           I
beyond them, for showing the declination of the Sun and Moon.

The before-mentioned wire, which, in the following parts of this

description shall call solar-ray, shows the Sun's amplitude

at rising and setting, every day of the year, as cuts the horizon
on the eastern or western side thereof, while the Earth turned

round its axis and in passing over the graduated arc, shows
if
both the declination and meridian altitude of the Sun, which
         is

                                 ;
different every day, as the amplitude likewise                for the Earth's

axis inclined 23£ degrees from line supposed to be drawn
perpendicular to the ecliptic and as the Earth carried round

about the Sun, its axis still continues parallel to itself; that

in any part of the Earth's annual path, a line be drawn
                  JAMES FERGUSON.                                101

parallel to its axis, the said axis will always keep parallel to

that line.

    While the Moon goes round the Earth, she rises ahove and

falls below the plane of the ecliptic, or annual path of the Earth's

Jcentre, in her orbit, which is 5 degrees inclined thereto ; con
sequently, as one half of the Moon's orbit is above the ecliptic,

and the other half below her orbit will cut the ecliptic in two
                                 it,
points diametrically opposite to one another, and these points are
                                        it

                                                 ;
called the Moon' nodes. Theyare marked upon the inclined plane
            is s
P,  to which plane the Moon always keeps parallel, because the
      T,
lower end of her axis lies upon and because of its inclination,

the axis will rise and fall in the socket           which fixed in the
                                                    Q,
                                                                    is

                                                                                                          ;
bar that carries the Moon round the Earth. To this bar a

small index U fixed, which constantly shows the Moon's place

in her orbit, among the signs on the plate V. These signs

always keep parallel to themselves, as they go round the Sun

but the inclined plane           P  with its nodes goes backward, so

that each node recedes through all the above signs in almost

19 years. On this inclined plane there are two graduated

circles, the outermost whereof shows the degrees and parte

of a degree of the Moon's latitude, as              north or south,
                                                    it

                                                         is

                                                                                           ;

                                                                                        is
and the innermost circle shows her distance from either of her

nodes.

   That node from which the Moon ascends northward above the

plane of the ecliptic, called the ascending or north node be
            it
cause from
                             is
            her latitude (or declination from the ecliptic)
called north latitude ascending, until she comes to the highest

part of her orbit, or to her greatest north latitude. From thence

she has north latitude descending, until she comes to the south

node, so called, because from the Moon descends southward
            it
                                    ; it
below the ecliptic, until she comes to her greatest south latitude,

in the lowest part of her orbit whence she ascends in south

latitude, until she comes again to the north node and then
                                                    ;
ascends from in north latitude, as before.
                                                             is
    Two indexes are put upon the Earth's axis, and by the Earth's
diurnal motion they are carried round the dial-plate X, which

   divided into 24 hours. The shortest index shows the sidereal,
is

and the longest, the solar time.

    The axes of the before-mentioned plates turn concentrically
within one another, and come from the wheel-work that con
102 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

tained in the box B,14i whercin the Sun's axis is fixed, and by

that means the solar-ray W constantly points toward the Earth's
centre as it is carried round the Sun.

   The large plate A is immoveable, because on it is drawn the

ecliptic (which is the standard of the whole instrument) with
its twelve signs, each containing thirty degrees, within which is
a circle of the twelve months divided into their respective days

in such a manner, that the degrees of the ecliptic show the Sun's

place, as they stand over these days throughout the whole year.
The next or innermost circle contains 24 hours, which begin

with Aries at the 9th day of March ; their use is to show the

Sun's right ascension in time every day of the year. All these
are shown by the annual index Y fixed to the box, and so goes

round the above-mentioned circles, as the box is by hand turned

round upon a pin fixed in the centre of the large immoveable

plate.

   If we imagine this circle of signs to be raised up from the

immoveable plate, as high as the centres of the Earth and Sun,
it will represent the situation of the ecliptic, in whose plane
the Earth always moves about the Sun, which remains in the
centre ; but will appear, as seen from the Earth, to go through

all the twelve signs in a year, because he is seen by the inhabit
ants of the moving Earth, who cannot perceive their own mo
tion as they are carried along therewith.

   While the Earth is carried once round the Sun by hand, it

shows all the beautiful variety of the four seasons, and the Moon

Jgoes 12 times and more round the Earth, from the Sun to the

Sun again ; showing her lunations and phases ; also, her latitudes

and distance from her nodes, as she rises above and falls below
the ecliptic in her inclined orbit, whose nodes go backward 19^
degrees every year ; and consequently, in 18§ years, or little
more, they go once backward through all the signs and degrees
of her orbit without ever disturbing the position of her signs ;
which, as above said, still keep their parallelism as they go
round the Sun, by looking toward their corresponding signs in

145 Ferguson, in his description of the four-wheeled orrery, does not explain
the wheel-work in the inside of the box. Probably he made such simple orreries
for sale, and thus kept its mechanism secret ; be this as it may, we shall annex
             v"ieCwalcouflatthoer,"conwtheincths,  of the box.
a sectional                                        he says, it   composed   by us, from the sectional
view of his                                                     resembled,  excepting in the addition

of on* wheel. (See article Calculator, date 1749).
                 JAMES FERUUSON.                                                       103

the ecliptic.148 And in this small circle of signs the Moon's

iplace is shown at any time, as her age is on a circle of 29 equal
parts upon the box, round the lowermost edge of her inclined

plane or orbit.

On the box are several tables for showing the place of the

north node, with the moon's age, week day, and day of the
month, for any time past or to come. By these tables the

machine may be rectified in two minutes to any given time, so

as to show the days of the weeks and months whereon the new

and fall moons, and eclipses of any year, did or will happen.

   The Sun is 13 inches in circumference, the Earth 9, and the

Moon 2£ ; the box is 18 inches long, and the large immoveable
plate is 27 inches in diameter. The Earth in this machine has

no diurnal motion, but such a motion may - be given to it

by means of a string wrapped round its axis."

One side of the Moon keeps always toward the Earth, and is

engraven, to distinguish it from the other. She turns round

her axis within a black cap, which shows her phases to be dif
ferent every day, as seen from the Earth; but to the Sun she

always appears full, and turns herself once round to him in every

lunation, having only one day and one night in that time, equal
in length to 29$ natural days on our Earth." (Ferguson's Dis
sertation on the Harvest Moon, and Use of a New Four- Wheeled

Orrery, pp. 19 -- 22). This description is followed by 26 pages

of print, showing how to rectify the orrery for exhibiting the

change of the seasons--the different lengths of day and night --
sidereal time -- the Sun's place in the ecliptic --right ascension --
declination and amplitude --the phenomena arising out of the
Moon's motions --eclipses --precession of the equinoxes--the

Moon's rotation, &c., much too long for insertion here.

   As mentioned in our note, Ferguson does not describe the
internal mechanism of his orrery-box. This omission, no doubt,

was intentional ; done, to prevent any one from making                 it, it,         and

for securing the invention entirely to himself. That the reader

may be made acquainted with the arrangement of the works

inside said box, we have designed sectional plan of                           from
                                    is

                                                      a
                                                            it
the pulley-work of his " Calculator" which, along with the

Instead of " in 1SJ years or little more,"                      should have been, "in  18i$
years or little less" as 18J years                                                     the
                                    equal to 18 years 243 (lays nearly whereas
                                                                    ;

nodal period one of about 18 years 224 days, or 18|> years nearly.is
104 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

short description we shall give, we trust, that its several simple
parts will be readily understood, and easily made by any iu-
genious mechanic.

   In the annexed figure, A A represents, in section, the large
circular ecliptic-plate, 27 inches in diameter, and B B, that of
the moveable box which contains the works. A strong wire \

inch in diameter, and square in the middle at c, is driven down
through the centre of the ecliptic-plate, and down a little way
into the pedestal K. Two holes £ inch in diameter are made

Section of the Four-Wheeled Orrery, 1746.

in the top and bottom of the box at O and P, which fits on the

axis S K in the centre, and thus the box moves freely on the

axis or shaft as a pivot. The pulley c is turned out of one piece

of wood, as shown in the section, and fits tightly on the square

part of the thick wire in the centre at c ; and thus this large

pulley is immoveable, and the box may be carried round the

ecliptic-plate without in the slightest degree altering its posi

tion. The under part of the large fixed central pulley is grooved

at M, and this groove must be sharp at the bottom and 2 inches

in diameter ; the central part D is also sharp grooved (as shown

by the dark line across its centre), and  inches in diameter.

The upper part has likewise a sharp cut groove at L, 2 inches
                                   JAMES FERGUSON.                       105

in diameter. Thus the large fixed central pulley is actually a

combination of three pulleys, but, being in one mass, Ferguson,

singularly enough reckons it as one wheel, or rather as one
pulley only, and therefore has designated it " the Four- Wheeled

Orrery."

Near the right hand end of the bottom of the box there rises

    it,

        E

                   a
                              a
out of at W, perpendicular spindle ,\,th of an inch in dia

meter, which rises to point nearly touching the lower part of

the oblique dial-plate under the Earth. On this fixed spindle
the pulley turns, having a long hollow axis which turns on

the before-mentioned spindle and reaches to near its top. Near

the upper end of the hollow axis of this pulley there fixed a
                                                         2 is
small ecliptic circle, and a little above and on the top of this
                                              it

hollow axis made fast the oblique-piece which carries the Earthis

and its sidereal dial-plate. This pulley must, like those in the

centre, have a sharp-bottomed groove, and be exactly inches

in diameter, taken from the bottom of the groove. This pulley

being inches in diameter, exactly of the same diameter
E                                         is

                   2                          J

                  L
as the pulley in the centre. These two pulleys are connected

together by means of cat-gut string (not crossed) beingEa             ;
thus connected, pulley will maintain its parallelism when the

box carried round the large ecliptic-circle A A; and conse
is

quently, as formerly mentioned, cause the Earth to show the

varied changes of the seasons.

Above pulley there a small pulley having sharp groove
          it                                  ;

              ;                                    F

                 \E                                               Ca

                             is                                I
                                      is
cut into  the diameter, taken from the bottom of the groove,

must be exactly inch in diameter a cat-gut string (crossed)
connects this £-inch pulley with the large one in the centre,
and when the box moved round the ecliptic-circle, the £-inch
pulley will make 12$$y rotations, because 618 inches being the
diameter of the bottom of the groove in the large pulley and
                                                         is
                                                                    C,
of an inch that of the small pulley, the fraction thus becomes
  = 6'18 + = 12'36, and these 12 36 rotations very nearly
^ '5
     *Ja

                             o

equal to the number of revolutions which the Moon makes round
the Earth in a year. This £-inch pulley has hollow axis which
                                              E
                                                         it,
                                                      a       V,
turns on the hollow axis of the pulley under and ascends

to near the under surface of the small ecliptic plate and car

                                          T,
ries on its top a horizontal bar having a short tube made fast

to its extreme end the Moon's shaft works up and down into
                                ;

this tube, according to its contact with the inclined orbit below,

                                          o
                           KXTKNDKD MEMOIR OF

     as formerly described. This horizontal bar being fixed to the

     top of the tube of the hollow axis of the £-inch pulley, must
     with it move round in the same time, and with it the Moon,

     causing it to revolve round the Earth in 29 days 12 hours 45
     minutes, as indicated by the passage of the annual index over

     the days in the large ecliptic-circle, or                         revolutions round

     the Earth in the time taken by the annual index in traversing

     all the signs and degrees of the ecliptic. The Moon is half
     covered with a black cap, which, by means of a bent wire, is

     connected with a swivel-pin on the top of the Sun ; this pin has

     a small hole in through which the end of the Ions; wire hasit,
           it                                                          ;
                                                                                           a
     lateral motion to accommodate the variable distances of the

     Moon from the Sun in its revolution round the Earth the other

     end of this wire being fixed to the back of the Moon's cap,
     causes the front of to look always towards the Sun during its

     circuit round the Earth, thereby showing the varied phases of

     the Moon as seen from the Earth -- and always full Moon as

     seen from the Sun.
                                                                       a,
       Above the £-ineh pulley there
                                                                             G,
                                         1 is  another one,                      having a

     sharp-bottomed groove, the diameter of which, measured from

     the bottom of the groove, must be                                 inch nearly this pulley
                                                                       is ;
i is,  by means of an uncrossed cat-gut string, connected with the

     upper central pulley  L,  which, as before noted,                           exactly  2

     inches in diameter, as measured from the bottom of its groove.
     This pulley being -^th of an inch less than that in the centre,
     will not keep its parallelism as the lower pulley does, but
                                                                       E
                                                                            it

                                                                                           a
     will gain a little yearly, giving retrograde motion to in 18|
     years, which the period of the Moon's nodes. Instead of
     pulley l-$y inch in diameter at the bottom of its groove, one of

       i8oVs wu^ Slvc a more correct nodal revolution; but as
     impossible to make groove to answer this fraction, the bottom
       is
                                      a

                                                                                 it

                                                                                       is

       it
                    a

                              G
                                             a

                                                                    1
     of the groove ought to be made                                    inch in diameter, and

     then by trials, nicely reduced a little, by means of triangular-  a
     shaped file. This pulley has hollow axis which turns on

     that of the Moon, and ascends about inch above the surface of

     the box, and carries on its top the oblique orbit of the Moon N,

     and causes to make a retrograde revolution through all the

     signs and degrees of the ecliptic in 18| years.

        In concluding our description of the internal arrangements of

     this very simple orrery, we may note that the grooves in all the
                       JAMES FERGUSON.                            107

pulleys ought to be shaped like the letter V, sharp at the bot

tom, in order that the cat-gut strings may not slip during the

motion of the box. That a greater degree of security may be

given to these cat-gut strings to prevent them slipping, we

Iwould recommend that each of the strings, at the letters H J,

be furnished with a pulley moving on a joint, and by means of

a spring, cause the pulley to press the several cat-gut strings

inwards ; this would keep the strings tight on the pulleys in

all weather and under all circumstances.

As noticed at the beginning of the description, Ferguson

mentions that he improved this machine soon after it was made
" by adding another wheel " to                       and then called " the Cal
                                a it,
                                           it,

                                                is
                                                              it
culator." Whether Ferguson then made an entirely new

machine by adding an extra wheel to or simply altered the

four-wheeled orrery into the Calculator, now not known. If

he altered the four-wheeled orrery into the Calculator, he would

do so by placing the pulleys into new frame and bringing them

into closer contact, as shown in the pulley- work of the Calcula

tor and in having the works concealed from view by a circular
;
                    ;cover-plate, moving with the annual motion. (See view of the
Calculator, under date 1749). It
                                                     is  singular that Ferguson

should call this machine a four-wheeled orrery; a four-pulley eel,
or rather a six-pulleyed orrery would have been the more correct

designation because, the central mass does not act as one, but

as three distinct pulleys. Ferguson calls these pulleys, wheels.

Wheels are usually understood to have teeth or cogs, while pul

leys are wheels without teeth, simply grooved, or plain round

the circumference.

                                                1747.

" The Improved Celestial Globe." -- About the beginning

of the year 1747, Ferguson improved the Celestial Globe by

adding a piece of apparatus to which enabled him to show
                       by
                                                 it
the apparent diurnal revolutions of the Sun and Moon, with the

times of their rising, culminating, and setting, the age of the
Moon, &c. This improved globe was exhibited before the mem

bers of the Royal Society, and at same time, there was read a

paper, written         Ferguson, descriptive of the new improve

ment and its use. The paper and the improved globe were

approved of by the members, and the description was ordered
108 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

to bo printed, which was done in due course. The paper stands
indexed in their Transactions as,

           " An Improvement of the Celestial Globe, by James Fer
            guson, read before the Royal Society, on 14th May, 1747."
            See Phil. Trans. VoL 44, page 535.

    We annex an engraving of the Celestial Globe, as improved
by Ferguson, along with a full description of
                               N

                                                      it.

                           Improved Celestial Globe.

    " On the north pole of the axis, above the hour circle, fixedis
                                                                  is
an arc M K H of 23£ degrees, and at the end H fixed an
upright pin HG, which stands directly over the north pole of

the ecliptic, and perpendicular to that part of the surface of the

globe. On this pin are two moveable collets at and H, to
                                                           D

which are fixed the quadrantal wires and O, having two little
                               F, N
balls on their ends for the Sun and Moon, as in the figure. The

collet  D    is  fixed to the circular plate on which the 29£ days

of the Moon's age are engraven, beginning just under the Sun's

wire  N      and as this wire moved round the globe the plate
                           is                              if
          ;                                                           is F

turns round with ;         These wires are easily turned the screw

                      it.
G  be slackened and when they are set to their proper places,

the screw serves to fix them there, so that when the globe
                          JAMES FERGUSON.                              109

turned, the wires with the Sun and Moon may go round

with it; and these two little balls rise and set at the same

times and on the same points of the horizon, for the day

to which they are rectified, as the Sun and Moon do in the

heavens.

   Because the Moon keeps not in her course in the ecliptic (us

the Sun appears to do), but has a declination of 5 J degrees on

each side from it in every lunation, her ball may be screwed as

many degrees to either side of the ecliptic as her latitude or

declination from the ecliptic amounts to at any given time ; and

for this purpose, S is a small piece of pasteboard, of which the

curved edge at S is to be set upon the globe at right angles to

the ecliptic, and the dark line over S to stand upright upon           it.

From this line, on the convex edge, are drawn           degrees of
                                                  ;

                                                    J5
the Moon's latitude on both sides of the ecliptic and when this

piece set upright on the globe, its graduated edge reaches to
the Moon on the wire O, by which means she easily adjusted
is                                                is
                  is

                               by
to her latitude, found             an ephemeris.

The horizon             supported by two semicircular arcs, because

pillars would stop the progress of the balls when they go below

the horizon in an oblique sphere.147

   To rectify this Globe. --Elevate the pole to the latitude of

the place then bring the Sun's place to the ecliptic for the
          ;

                   is,
given day to the brass meridian, and set the hour-index to XII.
                        to the upper XII. on the hour-circle, keeping
at noon, that

the globe in that situation slacken the screw and set the
                          G,                          G
                            F, ;                                   is
Sun directly over his place on the meridian, which being done,

set the Moon's wire under the number that expresses her age

for that day on the plate and she will then stand over her

place in the ecliptic and show what constellation she                  in;

lastly, fasten the screw           and laying the curved edge of the

pasteboard,  S,  over the ecliptic, below the Moon, adjust the Moon

to her latitude over the graduated edge of the pasteboard, and

the globe will be rectified.                          round, and
   Ita use. -- Having thus rectified the globe, turn  it

                                                                                    by
observe on what points of the horizon the Sun and Moon balls

   H7 This simple auxiliary apparatus of Ferguson's may be used with effect;a
those who have their Celestial Globe mounted on pillar. We had the apparatus
made for our globe, and the cost was only 30s. and we believe that the some
mechanician continues to supply them at same price.
110 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

rise and set, lor these agree with the points of the compass on
which the Suu aud Moon rise and set in the heavens on the

given day ; and the hour-index shows the times of their rising
and setting, and likewise the time of the Moon's passage over
the meridian.

   This simple apparatus shows all the varieties that can happen
in the rising of the Sun and Moon, and makes the phenomena

of the Harvest Moon plain to the eye. It is also very useful in

reading lectures on the globes, because a large company can see
this Sun and Moon go round, rising above and setting below
the horizon at different times, according to the seasons of the
year, and making their uppulses to different fixed stars. But
in the usual way, where there is only the places of the Sun and
Moon in the ecliptic to keep the eye upon, they are easily lost
sight of, unless they be covered with patches." (See Ferguson's

Astronomy, Chapter XII. Astronomical Machinery, article 401,
and Plate III., figure 3; also, The Universal Magazine, Vol. 7,

with Plate, &c.)

   " A Dissertation upon the Phenomena of the Harvest
Moon," &c, Published. --Ferguson published this his second

work in July, 1747, being a small 8vo of 72 pages, and illus

trated by three folding engravings. As formerly mentioned,

Ferguson, in his own memoir, notices this publication, and calls

it his first work ; but it was really his second. At page 5 of
his preface to this " Dissertation," he refers to his first work --

apologises for an error in and also for the printer, for his faulty
it it
                of

                                         it,
                                                       ; is
                                                                    3a

                                                                                     :
                                                                                         p.

                                                                        ; it

                                                                                               by

                                                                                                                                                  ;
printing. We do not find "the Dissertation" advertised in any

of the London newspapers or magazines before July, 1747; and

as comes first into notice this month, we conclude was then

just published. The following  copy of an advertisement
of in the Gentleman's Magazine -- " Dissertation on the

Phenomena  the Harvest Moon    Copper-plates  James

Ferguson" (Gentleman's Magazine. Vol. 17, 348, July, 1747

see also note 82.)

   The Planetary Globes Instrument. --During the summera

of 1747, Ferguson invented aud made, for the illustration of his
future lectures, curious and simple apparatus, which he after

wards designated "The Planetary Globes." The annexed
                                                     1

                     JAMES FERGUSON.                                  Ill

wood-cut shows its appearance, and the following is a descrip
tion of its several parts, its use, &c.

   In the engraving the letter T represents a terrestrial globe

fixed on its axis, standing upright on the pedestal C D E, on
which is an hour circle, having its index fixed on the axis, which

turns somewhat tightly in the pedestal so that the globe may

                            Planetary Globes.

not shake, to prevent which, the pedestal is about two inches

thick, and the axis goes quite through         it,
                                                             is
                                                                   a
                                               bearing on a

shoulder. The globe hung in a graduated brazen meridian,is is

much in the usual way, and the thin plate N, NE, E.                   move

able horizon, graduated round the outer edge, for showing the

bearings and amplitudes of the Sun, Moon and planets.

The brazen meridian         grooved round the outer edge, and in

this groove a slender semicircle of brass, the ends of which areis

fixed to the horizon in its north and south points. This semi

circle slides in the groove as the horizon moved in rectifying
                            is
                                         it q is
                                               is

                                                           it
                                                                    is

                                                                                  is
it  for different latitudes. To the middle of the semicircle

fixed a pin which always keeps in the zenith of the horizon,

and on this pin the quadrant of altitude turns, the lower end

of which, in all positions, touches the horizon as      moved

round the same. This quadrant divided into 90 degrees from

the horizon to the zenithal pin, on which      turned at 90. The
112 EXTENDED MEMOIK OF

great flat circle or plate, A B, is the ecliptic, on the outer edge

of which the signs and degrees are laid down, and every fifth
degree is drawn through the rest of the surface of this plate
towards its centre. On this plate are seven grooves, to which

seven little balls are adjusted by sliding wires, so that they are

easily moved in the grooves without danger of starting out of

them.

   The ball next the terrestrial globe is the Moon, the next
without it is Mercury, the next Venus, the next the Sun, then

Mars, then Jupiter, and lastly, Saturn ; and in order to know

them, they are separately stamped with the following charac
ters :-- ·, §, ?, 0, U,
        C                                              This plate or ecliptic supported by
           is D                                                                         is

                       E,                                                                    it

                                     <J,                                                            is
                                            £

                                                  Tj.
four strong wires, having their lower ends fixed into the pedes

tal at   and the fourth wire being hid by the globe. The

ecliptic inclined 23 degrees to the pedestal, and                                                       there

fore properly inclined to the axis of the globe which stands up

right on the pedestal.141*

To rectify this machine, set the Sun and all the planetary

balls to their geocentric places in the ecliptic, for any given time,

by an ephemeris then set the north point of the horizon to the
it
latitude of your place on the brazen meridian, and the quadrant
           I.
of altitude to the south point of the horizon which done, turn
                             ;                                                          ;
                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                                        C,
the globe with its furniture till the quadrant of altitude comes

right against the Sun, viz. to his place in the ecliptic and keep

ing there, set the hour index to the XII. next the letter

and the machine will be rectified not only for the following

problems, but for several others, which the ingenious reader

may easily find out:--

Problem  To find the amplitudes, meridian altitudes, and times of

rising, culminating, and setting of the Sun, Moon, and planets. Problem

II. To find the altitude and azimuthy of the Sun, Moon, and planets, at
any time of their being above the horizon. Problem III. The Sun's

altitude being given at any time, either before or after noon, to find the

hour of the day and the variation of the compass in any known latitude.

1-w From an old sketch of this machine which was shown to us in the winter
of 1831, by our 1'rieud Mr. Deanc F. Walker, lecturer on Astronomy iu London,
would appear (from the measurements there given), that the terrestrial globe of
it
          ;

                                    9
                                                      92

                                                                             ;
                                                                                     ;
this machine was inches iu diameter the large ecliptic, 21 inches in dia
meter the pedestal or base, feet diameter the height of the lowest point of
the ecliptic from the base,     inches, and the highest point about 16 inches.
The balls representing the Moon, Mercury, Venus, the Sun, Mars, Jupiter, and
Saturn, were of ivory, and about three-fourths of an inch in diameter each.
                       JAMES FERGUSON.                                 113

   (Vide   Ferguson's      Astronomy,    Chap. XII.,    article     "  The Planetary
Ulobes ;"  and for     engraving of                              and   tig. 3 of same
                                       same, see Plate  III.

work.)

   ASTRONOMICAL Clock. -- About the end of the year 1747,
Ferguson invented and made a large wooden model of an As

tronomical Clock, for the illustration of his future lectures, which

                                       Fig. I.

                                         Dial Fuce of Astronomical Clock.

showed, with considerable accuracy, the apparent diurnal motion
of the Sun, Moon, and Stars ; with the times of their rising,
southing, and setting ; the places of the Sun and Moon in the
ecliptic ; and the age and phases of the Moon throughout the

year. Ferguson, in his " Table* awl Tracts" London, 1767,
describes this clock at pages 111 -- 116, and informs us that it
was made " about twenty years ago" thereby showing that it

was made in 1747 ; and on referring to our notes, we find that
it appears to have been made about the close of this year. This
clock is also described in Ferguson's " Select Mechanical Exer

cises" pages 19 --31, illustrated by a folding copper-plate en-

                                                          P
114 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

graving of the wheel-work and dial-plate, which we have re

duced and here annexed. The following is a description of this

curious clock in all its details :--

   The dial-plate of this clock is represented by the annexed

Fig. 1. It contains all the 24 hours of the day and night, and

each hour is divided into 12 equal parts, so that each part

answers to 5 minutes of time.

   Within the divisions of the hour-circle is a flat ring, the face

of which is just even (or in the same plane) with the face of the
hour-circle. This ring is divided into 29£ equal parts, num

bered 1, 2, 3, 4, &c, from the right hand toward the left, which

are the days of the Moon's age from change to change. The
ring turns round in 24 hours, and has a fleur-de-lis upon it
serving as an hour-index to point out the time of the day or

night in the 24 hour circle.

   Within the ring, and about 1 inch below its flat surface,

is a flat circular plate, on which the months and days of the

year are engraved; and within these, on the same plate, is a

circle containing the signs and degrees of the ecliptic, divided

in such a manner as that each particular day of the year stands

over the sign and degree of the Sun's place on that day.
   Within this circle, on the same plate, the ecliptic, equinoctial,

and tropics, are laid down, and all the stars of the first, second,

and third magnitude that are ever seen in the latitude of Lon

don, according to their respective right ascensions and declina

tions ; those of the first magnitude being distinguished by eight

points, those of the second by six, and those of the third by five.

This plate turns round in 23 hours 56 minutes 4 seconds and 6
thirds of time, which is the length of a sidereal day ; 149 and

consequently, it makes 366 revolutions (as the stars do in the

heavens) in the time the Sun makes 363, the number of sidereal
days in a year exceeding the number of solar days by one.

   Over the middle of this plate, and about four-tenths of an

inch from         it,               a fixed plate        to represent the Earth, round
which the             is            Moon, and stars
                                                         move in their proper times, --
                              : isSun,                 E

   ns The length of a sidereal day may be determined us follows: -- The mean!
                                                                    -6
                                                                          ;
length of a solar year 365              a d.        48 m. 51 s. or dec imally, 365 242264 days,
                                            5
in which    time  the stars                     h.       revolutions; therefore, 365-242264-=-
366-242264        99726957          make     366 242264
              =                      of      solar day;                              23 56 m. s.
                                                         99726957 reduced            is
                                                                                                h.
                                                                                                                4

5thu44s8:--thIifrd3s6.6-24T2h2o6s4e who do   not understand                decimals  may state  the  question
                                      24 h.  365 242264
                                    ::
                                    JAMES FERGUSON.                      115

     viz. the Sun in 24 hours, the Moon in 24 hours 50£ minutes,
     and the stars in 23 hours 56 minutes 4 seconds b" thirds. The

     Sun S is carried round by a wire A which is fixed into the in

     side of the Moon's age-ring, even with the fleur-de-lis ; the
     Moon, M, is carried round by a wire B which is fixed to the axis

     of a wheel below the Earth, E, and the star plate is turned round

by a wheel at the back of the dial-plate.
    Over the dial-plate is a glass, as is in common clocks. On this

glass is an ellipsis H, drawn with a diamond, to represent the
horizon of the place for which the clock is to serve, and across

this horizon is a straight line e E d (even with the two XII'
to represent the meridian. All the stars that are seen at any
                                                                         ;e
     time within this ellipsis are above the horizon at that time, and
                                                                            E,
     all those that are without are then below the horizon. Whenit,
                                                                                                s.)
     any star on the plate comes to the left-hand side of the horizon

     (the stars moving from left to right), the like star in the heavens
       rising when comes under the meridian line                         the like
it is     ;

                     it

                                is
     star in the heavens on the meridian of the place and when
        comes to the right-hand side of the horizon, the like star in

     the heavens  is  setting.

       When the point of the ecliptic that the Sun's wire A inter

sects comes to the left-hand side of the horizon on any day of

the year cut by that wire, the fleur-de-lis will be, at the time
of the Sun's rising, in the 24 hour circle and at the time of
                                    B
his setting when the intersection of the Sun's wire and
                                                     is
ecliptic comes to the western side of the horizon. The like
                                                                      ;
       to be understood with regard to the rising and setting
is

       B
of the Moon, when the point of the ecliptic, which her

wire intersects, comes to the left and right hand sides of

the horizon.

       Every 24 hours, the Moon's wire shifts over one day of her

age in the circle of 29£ equal parts on the flat ring before men

tioned. Each of these day spaces         divided into four equal

parts, for showing the Moon's age to every sixth hour thereof.

Thus, as the Moon's wire stands in the engraving, shows

the Moon to be days and 18 hours old. It shifts quite round
                      8                                                  it

                                                                                          ;
the ring, and carries the Moon round from the Sun to the Sun

again in 29 days 12 hours and 45 minutes.

     The Sun, on its wire A, goes 365 times round in 365 days

and in that time, the star-plate, with the months and days of
           1 10 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

                          it,
                                         it

                                                      ;
                                                                                  ;

                                                              B
                                                                                                                                   ;
is is is bythe year upon goes 366 times round so that for every revolu
           tion of the Sun, the star-plate advances forward, under the Sun's
  A;
           wire, through the space of one day in the circle of months and

                this means, the Sun's wire shows the day of the month
           throughout the whole year and at the same time, for each par
           ticular day in the year, shows the Sun's place in the ecliptic
           in the circle of signs. The Moon's wire cuts the Moon's place
           in the circle of signs for every day of her age throughout the

           year.
               The whole circle of signs shifts round, under the Sun's wire

           A, in 365 days hours 48 minutes 58 seconds, which the time
                            is 5

                                                                                                        ;

                                                                                       7
                                                                                                 is
           the Sun takes in going quite round the ecliptic and the Moon's

           wire shifts over all the circle of signs in 27 days hours arid 4.'}

           minutes, which the time of the Moon's going round the eclip

           tic and thus, by these different motions of the Sun and Moon,

           there are always 29 days 12 hours and 45 minutes between any
           conjunction of the Sun and Moon and the next succeeding one.

           The Moon M a round ball, half black, half white;                                                turns
                            is
                                        B,

                                                                                            it
           round its axis, or wire in 29 days 12 hours 45 minutes, and

           so shows all the different phases of the Moon for every day of

           her age, from change to change. When the Sun and Moon are

           together, or in conjunction, the white side of the Moon-ball, M,

           toward the Sun, and the black side toward the eye of spec
                                                                                                           a
           tator looking at the clock, who then can see no part of the white                                    is

           (or apparently enlightened) side of the Moon. When the Moon
              full, or opposite to the Sun, all the white side of the ball M

           turned toward the spectator's eye and when the Moon in
                                                  2)
           either of her quarters, or 90 degrees from the Sun, the spectator;
           sees half the black and half the white side of the ball, so that
                                                           it
           the white part of then appears like the Moon in her first or
                            E                                        ;
           last quarter.      it

           The aunexed engraving (Fig.     1) is  represents the dial-work of

           this clock, in ground plan, and in section showing the wheels

           at the back of the dial-plate, between and the wheels of the

           common movement, which are contained between two fixed

           plates, wherein the pivots of their axes turn in holes.

             long pin or spindle fixed into the movement-plate, next

           the back of the dial-plate, perpendicular to both these plates.

           This spindle goes through the centre of the dial-plate, and has

           the Earth-plate  (Fig.                 fixed on the end of   it.
JAMES FERGUSON,                                                      117

    On this spindle, and close to the movement-plate in which it

is fixed, is a fixed pinion A of 8 leaves (Fig. 2) which takes into

the teeth of a wheel B, and of a wheel C. The number of teeth

in B is 35, and of C is 50.150

Urounil Plan.

   These two wheels hang and turn upon a large plate 1), which,
by the common clock movement, is turned round upon the axis

of the fixed pinion A in 24 hours ; and consequently, as these

two wheels are carried round the fixed pinion, and its leaves
take into their teeth, each of them will be so far turned round

its axis, in 24 hours, as is equal to 8 of their teeth. The axis
of the plate D is hollow, and turns upon the solid fixed spindle

or axis of the pinion A ; and the side of the plate D that is

nearest to the clock movement is almost contiguous to the end

150 Ferguson, in his " Tables and Tracts," in his description of this clock,
mukcs these wheels 70 and 100 ; being thus doubled, it became necessary to doublo
the fixed central pinion also ; and hence he has it 16.  = 3's, and
                                                                     as

here given (" Tables and Tracts," pages 115, 116).
118 KXTENDKD MEMOIR OF

of the pinion A, next to the dial-plate of the clock ; hence, it is

plain, that the two wheels B and C, which are carried round the

pinion A, and are turned by must be on that side of the plate
                   almost contiguous to the pinion. All the rest ofit,
which
D                                                  E C it
the wheels and pinions in the figure are on the other side of theit
       F
plate D, namely, on the side of which next to the back of
             B is                                                        8
the dial-plate.                                                             is

The axes of the wheels and go through the plate                                        2) D                   on
                                    B                                                      ;
the top of the axis                             pinion of leaves, which turns a
                                        is
                                            a

                                             B

wheel of 54 teeth. The axis of this wheel hollow, and turns
                                                                                is

upon the hollow axis of the plate D; comes through the centre

of the dial-plate of the clock, and carries the Moon round by

the wire in Fig. which wire turns round in a piece that
                                    1,

                                       E
goes tight upon the hollow end of the axis of (Fig. just
                                                                                    F

under the Earth-plate                           (Fig.         1,1
                                                       1.)

The hollow axis of the plate turns round, as the plate does,D

in 24 hours. On the end of this axis, just under the middle of

the Earth-plate                E,   is     small wheel of 20 teeth turning a con-
                                       a

trate, or bevel wheel, of the same number, the pivots of whose

axis turn in the piece that carries the Moon's wire, and this

wheel turns another wheel of the same number of teeth fixed

on the Moon's wire or axis. By these wheels (which lie con

cealed under the Earth-plate                           E)      the Moon turned round her
                                                                         is
                                                              a
                                                                                               d.
                                                                                                          h.
151 The fractions or wheel-numbers for lunation being Ax&==i!,jo' the
same sohd from which Ferguson obtained the lunar train in his orrery (see orrery
lunation under date 1745), produces the imperfect lunation of 29 12 45 m.
heing period fully 57 seconds too slow in each revolution of the Moon, which
          a

                                it
soon amounts to a serious error. Many years ago, when studying the wheel-work
of this curious clock, occurred to us that the wheels and pinion producing the
lunation might be dispensed with, and more accurate tram substituted, as there
                                                       a

was no necessity of having two separate motions from the fixed pinion of leaves
in the centre, -- wheel 50, the first wheel in the sidereal train, being .piite sufficient
                                                                                    It

                                                                                         is
                                                                                                     8
to convey any number of motions on the upper surface of plate D. We therefore
made calculation for new lunar train, and made Ferguson's second wheel of
          a                    a
            is                              is
n&xi^jV&or-rffj,69, in his sidereal train, the unit or basis of our calculation.a      evident that
                            7       and 1725-^56 = 30-803571 days for the period of wheel
tin, and as a mean lunation,                    29 12 44 m. 2'8s., or decimally expressed,
                                                J\, d.
29- 530588 days, we have the fraction                                    which, on being reduced by con
tinuous fractions (as in the example                 J. h.
date 1745), we obtain the fractions             cslho=osewl2yn9f^-ia5n,p3p0thr6oe9x6idmd&e.acs,.cteriosprItt2fiho9enwdet.roufet1at2hklheue.noatr4htr4ieeornmyt,w. --ou1n2vldasiezs.,.rt

fractions         we obtain train thai
30- 803571
            xll6 = 3573-214236-=-121
            period within           a      seconds of the true mean lunation, whereas by the
which                                  9J

numbers used in the clock, the error 57 seconds. To any clockmaker who may
                                                       it is
                                                              d.

                                                                      a
make this clock we would suggest that a wheel of 121 teeth be made fast to the
shaft of pinion of wheel 60, and let drive wheel of 16 (in the place where
wheel 54 now is), and this wheel of 116 teeth, which                     is         much nearer approach
                                                                            a1

to the true period, will turn round in 29 12h. 44 m. 12s.
                             JAMES FERGUSON.                                                           119

axis in 29 days 12 hours 45 minutes, as before mentioned, and
shows her different phases. These three last-mentioned wheels

are not represented in Fig. 2, because they could not bo put in

without confusing it. (In our new section, however, these wheels,
as also the position of all the rest, are distinctly shown).

    On the axis of the wheel C, of 50 teeth, is a pinion G of 14

leaves, which turns a wheel H of 69 teeth, on whose axis is a

pinion I of 7 leaves, turning a wheel K of 83 teeth. This wheel

is pinned fast to the back of the star-plate, which, together with

the wheel, turns round in a sidereal day, or in 23 hours 56
minutes 4 seconds C thirds of mean solar time ; 152 and the
before-mentioned wheels, which belong to the Moon, will carry

her round from the meridian to the meridian again in 24 hours

50£ minutes,153 if the plate D, on which all the wheels hang, be

turned round in 24 mean solar hours.

   The plate D carries the ring of 29 £ equal parts round, within
the fixed 24 hour-circle on the dial-plate, in 24 hours, by means

of four pillars, whose opposite ends are fixed into the plate D,

and into the ring. By this the Sun is carried round in 24 hours

(its wire A. being fixed into the ring), and also the fleur-de-lis
that shows the time, like an index, in the 24 hour circle."

  Ferguson concludes the description of his clock by saying, " I

contrived this clock above twenty years ago, and made a model

of it in wood, which I have still in my custody, and since that

time." (See Ferguson's "Select Mechanical Exercises," pp. 19

--31).
IllThis is the same clock which Ferguson describes in his
"Tables and Tracts," pp.                                  -- 116, the only difference in the

two descriptions being in the numbers of the teeth in two of the

wheels, and in the number of leaves in one of the pinions. In

M This pinion of 14 leaves, and wheel of 50 teeth, is equal in value to 7 leaves
          teeth, as is used    bv Ferguson in             his  orrery. This train is       as follows :--
ij.and25  * tTj =                                              365d. 5h. 48 m. 5878        s.; but as 50
          jV llle  jjVyW      «»"« 286350-r-784           =
jo" x H                      round the fixed              pinion 8 every '24 hours, the effect pro
and                carried

duced on the last wheel of the train, viz. wheel 83, is this ; although this wheel
is carried round with the 24-hour frame,                                              on its surface    will
make a revolution round a fixed point --                     yet any  given    point  dial-plate, in
                                                          any fixed   point  on the                    23 h.

56 m. 4 s. 6 thirds ; this wheel of 83 therefore gains one revolution in 365 d. 5 h.
48 m. 5878 s. The true length of a sidereal day is 23 h. 56 m. 4 s. 54 thirds ; and
oFferghuissoonr'srertyra, ini'fsoXr ^proxdjuVcingmathdee  period he here gives is  simply  the yearly  train
                                                           to revolve inversely,   and in  24 hours.    (See

orrery, under date 1745).
15* This period of 24 h. 50 j, m., the period of a mean apparent diurnal revolu
tion of the Moon, is here expressed in round numbevs only ; that produced by the
wheel-work is 24 h. 50 m. 31 J s.
 120 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

his "Select Mechanical Exercises" from which we have extract
ed the description of the clock, he gives 8 as the number of

leaves in the fixed pinion. In his " Tables and Tracts" he

doubles this number, and makes 16 to be the number of leaves
in the fixed pinion ; and consequently, he must double the num
bers of the respective wheels which act in it. Thus, instead of
B having 35 teeth, and -C 50, he makes these wheels 70 and
100; but in both cases the value and result of the fraction is

the same, for 3» x/0 = Jgx^

   In his " Table.i aml Tracts" first published in 17C7, in be
ginning his short description of this clock, he mentions that he
made it "about twenty years ago," that about 1747. In his
" Select Mechanical Exercises," first published in 1773, he notes
that he "contrived this clock above twenty years ago;" there
fore, the descriptions of given in these two works, no doubt
refer to the same clock.
               it

                                                 is,

               1748.

   Simple Lunar Motion.-- According to our memoranda, as
also from the date on an old sketch of this Lunar Motion work,

   appears to have been invented by Ferguson early in the yearit
1748. This simple train of wheel-work was often used by him

in his astronomical machines that exhibited the apparent diur

nal revolution of the Moon and since his time, has often been
               is
                  a

                                    ;

                                                         it
adopted by others, and introduced into several pieces of clock

work. Annexed  section of this train of wheels, taken from

                                              Front Frame of the Clock.

the old sketch referred to, with the description, as given in
" Tables and Tracts," pp. 126, 127.

   " Let a thick wheel of 57 teeth be turned round in 24 hours,
                                             JAMKS FERGUSON.                                                                     121

and take into the teeth of two wheels of equal diameters, one
of which has 57 teeth, and the other .59 ; these wheels lying
close upon one another, and the axis of the one turning within

the axis of the other. A wire fixed on the axis of the wheel 57
will carry a Sun round in 24 hours, and a wire fixed on the axis
of the wheel of 59 will carry a Moon round in 24 hours 50£

minutes.154

  If the Sun carries a plate round with him in 24 hours, and

the limb of the plate Ik? divided into 29£ equal parts for the
days of the Moon's age, the Moon will show her age in the

        This is the nearest approximation to the mean apparent diurnal revolution
of the Moon that can be obtained by so simple wheel-work. Ferguson gives, as
           of his train,                     period of 24 h. 504 m- ! the exact
                however,          the           50 m. 31$» s., for 57 24 59                        per2io4d8a42ri1sin=g
=the product                      24                                                                                             from
                                                                                                                                 24
the wheels
is                                           h.                          :                                                           ; if h.
                                                                                ::
         |j                                    if                                        a

                       is,

                           J$ h.
50 m. 31 s. as given. The true mean apparent diurnal revolution of the. Moon
   performed in 24 50 m. 28 s. 22 thirds 48 fourths, or when decimally express
ed, 24'8412166667 hours; and we take 24 hours as our unit, the fraction of the
period will become                ?3?S598S8¥- which, on being reduced by the process of
continuous fractions, as shown in the example for obtaining solar revolution of
the Karth in the description of the orrery finished in 1745, which process we
                                                               few of the approximate fractional results,

                                                                    U%\. f|jj(|. Ac. It will he observed
JJf,need not repeat here, but shall give                  a

which are as follows :--\, if.                            J}J
that Ferguson's numbers are in the third ratio, the next fraction                                                     but as
                                                                                                       ; is
|Jits denominator       a prime number, becomes useless in wheel-work the next ora
                         also in manner inapplicable, because its denominator, 502-f-2,
fifth fraction    J                                        it

                      is is is
                             a
                                       \- a
                        prime number,

                              Jgft =
JJ,gives 251, which                                            and inconveniently             large for wheels; but
                                                                 which capable
we add the fractions                                           X                              =of being reduced  into the
                                                                  :                                              15X63
                                                                        is                    X83, and 945

                                                                                  if

                                                                                             a
following fractions suitable for wheel-work -- 913= 11
                                                                         that is,               wheel of 83 teeth turn
the reduced fraction thereby becomes \%
round in an hour, and drive pinion of 15 leaves, having fixed to                                                pinion of
                      7 is                                                                             it
                                          a                                                                a

11 leaves, which        made to drive wheel of 63 teeth concentrically with wheel
83, and this wheel of 63 teeth will revolve in 24 50 m. 28 s. 15 thirds, which
                                                                       ;
                          thirds 48 fourths,                                  h.
                        the fraction %\'\.
                                                                                   a
                                                                                            a
    aniserror of  only                                           or about an hour too           fast   at the end of 81
years.            take                                         we will obtain very              near   approach to the
           If we
rmeedauncedappaasrefonltlodwisu:r--nal23r6e8vo=lut3io7nx  of the Moon    =th4is3xfr5a7ct;iontherefcoarpea, bleletoaf
                                                          (i4, and 2451                            is                    being
                                                                                                                         wheel

of 64 teeth turn round on its axis in 24 hours, and drive wheel of 43 teeth, to

which must be made fast the wheel of 37 teeth, and this wheel of 37 be made to
turn wheel of 57 teeth concentrically with wheel 64, the result will be, that
    a
        is

           a '*
                               is

                                     aa 5
wheel 57 will turn round on its axis in' 24 50 m. 28 s. 22 thds. 42 1619 fourths,h.

being an error of only 8381 fourths.
                                             therefore unsuitable for wheel-work,
                                             thus obtained, -- thus, take
   The last fraction

Jitinear approximate
                            prime and                                                                  but stillJ                 very
                        ratio may be                                                                       --                        =
                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                               h.24
lit? " W$ therefore, let wheel having 179 teeth turn round on its axis in
and drive wheel of 148 teeth, on whose axis made fast wheel of 135 teeth,
                                                                         is is
                                                                                                a
which made to drive wheel of 169 teeth concentrically with wheel 179, this
wheel of 169 teeth will, by this arrangement, turn once round its axis in 24
                                                                                                                                 h.

50 m. 28 s. 22 thds. 47 '5977648 fourths, which perhaps the nearest wheel-work
approximation to the apparent diurnal revolution of tlio Moon ever obtained.
These are the numbers we thus obtained, some years ago, for a very accurate
astronomical machine which we had then made                                                   so near to nature, that
3
                       3
                                              2

                                                                            a
                                                                                              ;

                                                                          it

                                                                                                        h. is
                                                                                                                                                        a
|j,thousand years may pass away before any error worth mentioning would occur.
The ratio         as before shown, produces period of 24 50 m. 31 s. 34 thirds,=
s. 12 thirds too much in every lunar day, which amounts to an error of nearly
one hour in years and months.
122 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

divisions of that plate, and may he made to turn round her axis,
and show her phases, by a wheel of any number of teeth on her
axis, and taking into the teeth of a contrate wheel of the same
number, fixed on the axis of the wheel of 57 teeth, which car
ries the Sun." 155

   Ferguson's London Residence. -- Ferguson's residences in

London, for the first few years after his arrival, from 1743 to
1748, is now not known. In our endeavours to discover the
localities of his several residences in the great metropolis dur
ing said period, we instituted a tedious search through a great
many London newspapers and magazines of that day, thinking
it probable that he would either advertise himself as a limner,
or affix his address to some astronomical communication to the

editors. In our search, we were unsuccessful; and it is not
unlikely that his residences in London, from 1743 to 1748, will

now for ever be a blank.

   In the Library of the British Museum, we found a series of
that exceedingly rare work, " Kent's London Directory,"

    155 Ferguson here alludes to two wheels to produce a rotation of the Moon on
her axis, and as the description may not be readily understood, we annex a section
of the solar and lunar wheels, with the position of the two extra wheels mention
ed by him. On the top of the hollow axis of the Sun wheel, of 5" teeth, is made

fast a small bevel wheel B of 20 teeth ; another bevel wheel A, havmg also 20
teeth, is fixed on the end of the Moon's wire or shaft, takes into that of the other
bevel wheel, and is made to revolve by the difference of their velocities, thus, 57
turns round in 24 hours ; and 59, to the top of whose axis is made fast the bar
which carries the Moon's shaft and bevel wheel A, turns round in 24 h. 50 m.
31 s ; therefore, suppose a hole to be drilled through both wheels, 57 and 59, then
place the thick wheel of 57 teeth, formerly mentioned, into action with them ;
this done, turn the thick wheel, aud it will be found that the two loose wheels,
57 and 59, will operate thus :-- before the two drilled holes can come directly
opposite to each other again, wheel 57 will have made 29J revolutions, and" wheel
59 only 28£ revolutions ; hence, the difference being one, a revolution is com
municated to bevel wheels A and B, causing B to make one revolution on its
axis during the period of a mean synodic revolution of the Moon; and if the Moon
be a ball half black, half white, by thus turning on its axis, it will show the phases
of the Moon in that time. C is a bar of brass, fixed to the top of the hollow axis
of the Moon wheel 57 ; D is a short piece with a hole in it to sustain the axis of
the Moon, and through which it passes ; E is the socket of the bar C, into the side
of which the short pivot of bevel wheel A turns.
                              JAMES FERGUSON.                                                            123

commencing with the year 1748 ; looking into we discovered
                   it :-

                        is
                                  is
                                                                            is is
                                                                                         it,
the name and address of Ferguson, which certainly the earliest

that has been found. The following                                                extracted from said

directory --

                                                                       1748.

              " James Ferguson, Ajtronomical and Mathematical Teacher,

                              Surrey Street, Strand."

    Whether the domestic residence of Ferguson in 1748 was in

Surrey Street, or whether he had there only an apartment for

the purpose of teaching and delivering lectures on Astronomy,
Geography, &c, not now known. As Surrey Street in the

Strand would be then central and convenient for tuition and

lectures,          probable that the above address in 1748 was that

of his lecture-room.

   Lectures delivered on the Great Solar Eclipse of

July 14th, 1748. It would appear from our memoranda, that

Ferguson commenced delivering popular lectures on the Great

Solar Eclipse of 14th July 1748, somewhere about middle of

April, that year (or about three months before the eclipse oc
curred). Ferguson's illustrative apparatus at this early period,
consisted of an orrery, a. pair globes, an Improved Celestial
                                                                   of

Globe, the Four-Wheeled Orrery, Planetary Globes, wooden

model of an Astronomical Clock, and several large diagrams of

the soUir system, eclipses, &c.

    It             now not known what success Ferguson had with these his

         is

first public lectures, neither   is                                    now known at what places in
                                    it

London they were delivered; after considerable research, we have

ascertained at least one of the many places, -- viz. Christ's

Church Hospital School-room, Newgate Street, under the aus

pices of his friend, Mr. James Hodgson, the then mathematical

master of that establishment.156 (Vide Universal Magazine,

    1M has been supposed that the folding engraving in Hinton's Universal
Magazine, vol. 2d,it,      284, represents Ferguson delivering his first lecture. We
          ; It     meenagnrsavoinfgtestinegntitthleedac"cuTrahecyis p.of this, hut                  description of
have           no                                                  First Lecture  we  may give      of Geography
it.           The                                                                 on  the Sciences
                                                                                it ;

                                                                                           a
                                                                                                    it a
                                                                                                            is
                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                          is
                                                                                                                                     a
and Astronomy." The view represents hall, in the middle of which there
long table covered with cloth, and on which stands, near the right hand end ofis
                           a         a

    an armillary sphere, and half hanging over the side near toa                                       map of the
world on the floor there are three terrestrial globes                                        back wall   there are
two large diagrams, the one on the left has on                                    otnhethe"  Tycluniick   system,"
                                                                   large "mariner's compass;" At the ex
on the other on the right there

treme end of the table stand an audience of four gentlemen, dressed in the cos
tume of the period, one of whom rests his right hand on large diagram of the
124 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Vol. 2d, page 284, Aug. 1748 ; as also our note 86). It is evi

dent from our memoranda, that Ferguson did not confine his
lectures to London, but delivered lectures on this eclipse, &c.,

at a great many places in the provinces, -- Bristol being one of

his stations, where he delivered lectures to considerable audien
ces in the large room of the Bell Inn, Broad Street. (See also
Ferguson's Mechanics, sixth Edit., p. 89, where he mentions
being in Bristol 12 years ago, that is 12 years before 1760, when
his Mechanics were first published).

   The Great Solar Eclipse of Thursday, 14th July,

1748, excited general interest throughout the kingdom. The
following is extracted from a lecture on this eclipse, in the
" Universal Magazine" of 1748, from the lecture by Ferguson,
delivered in Christ's Hospital School. " The Sun on this occasion
is first centrally eclipsed in North America, near Quebec, in
Canada (lat, 46° 50' N, and 75° 30' W, from London), to whose
inhabitants the body of the Sun appears centrally eclipsed
at 4 hours 40 minutes, at the time of his rising. From
thence, the central shade passes by the river St. Lawrence,
and leaving Nova Scotia to the south, it crosses the north
part of Newfoundland and the Atlantic Ocean ; lands on the
western Isles of Scotland ; then passing by Perth, Dundee,
Cupar, and St. Andrews, it takes the German Ocean in
lat. 56" 30' N, and coasting the south of Denmark, it leaves
 Norway and Sweden to the north, and enters Germany in lat.
54° 15' N, by the mouth of the Elbe; whence, proceeding to
 Hamburgh, near the south part of the Baltic Sea, Brandenburg.
 Berlin, Frankfort, and Breslau, it enters Poland, passes near
 Cracow; and after passing part of Hungary and Turkey in
 Europe, it takes the Euxine, or Black Sea, between Constanti
nople and the mouth of the Danube; then it enters Turkey

 " Ptolcmean system." At the other end of the tahlc, on the extreme right, stands

 the lecturer, supposed to he Ferguson, robed in a loose flowing gown, and cap on
 head, a la academia, having in his right hand along pointing rod with which
 he points to the armillary sphere on the table, while his lecture is directly before
 him in a small frame on the end of the table. Hehind the lecturer is an open
 door looking out into a terrace and garden ; opposite to which, and immediately at
 the lecturer's back, there is an old chair with an immensely tall back and extended
 arms, in which the lecturer had evidently been sitting before commencing his lec
  ture. We have a decayed copy of this scarce engraving, and would have reduced
  it for the present work had we been certain that the lecturer represented was
  Ferguson.
                     JAMES FERGUSON.                                            125

in Asia; passes by the Euphrates and the Persian Gulf; then
it entered the Arabian Sea, and there leaves the Sun centrally
eclipsed at his setting on the coast of Coromandel, in the East
Indies, lat. 12° 0' N, and 80° 0' E, from London."-- Hinton's
Universal Magazine, Vol. 2d, pp. 234 -- 237.

   In London, this Solar Eclipse was not total, only partial, as

London lay about 420 miles to the south of the central track of

the shadow. At the time of the greatest obscuration at London,

which happened 10 hours 30 minutes forenoon, only about }"ths
of the northern limb of the Sun was hid from view. We annex

a representation of this eclipse, showing the appearance of the

                     View of the Solar Kclipse of July 14th, 1743.

Sun at the time of his greatest obscuration at London, as also
the curved track of the Moon, taken from the Gentleman's

Magazine for July, 1748; as also the following note regarding
it:-- l»7

       " Thursday, 14th July, 1748," there was a great eclipse of the
        Sun, beginning at London about 3 minutes alter 9, and ending
       about 8 minutes after 12. During the eclipse, Venus made a
        beautiful appearance through the telescope, in the form of a

l''< As already mentioned, after delivering a great many lectures on this
eclipse in London                      Ferguson went to Bath and Bristol, aud
the same lectures    and vicinity,      with what success is now not known. --  delivered
                     iu these cities;                                           Vide also

Ferguson's Lectures on Select Subjects, p. 89, where he alludes to having been
iu Bristol in 1743,
126 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

crescent. The darkness was scarce perceived, though the mar
kets at Coveut Garden and St, James's were almost destitute of

gardeners, who, being terrified by false accounts, were afraid to

come, lest they should have to go home in the dark."-- Gent.
Mug. Vol. 18th, p. 330, July, 1748.

   For a Geometrical Projection of this Solar Eclipse, we refer
the reader to Ferguson's " Young Gentlemen and Ladies' As
tronomy," Dialogue X., " On the Projection of Solar and Lunar
Eclipses," where will be found a minute description of the con

struction and track of this eclipse, illustrated by a fine folding
engraving, which most likely is a fac-simile of the " Projection
of the Sun's Eclipse" published by Ferguson early in 1746, as
already noticed. (See also note 86.)

  " An Answer to Ferguson's Essay on the Moon's turn
ing on HER Axis." -- In the midst of the bustle and excitement

that attended the first series of his Astronomical Lectures, in the

summer of this year, Ferguson was startled by the publication of

an anonymous pamphlet in London, entitled, " An Answer to

Mr. Ferguson's Essay upon, the Moon's turning round its own
Axis, subjoined to his Dissertation upon the Phenomena of

JIIrthe Harvest Moon, Src" (8vo, 52 pages, and 3 folding engrav

ings). " London : Printed for Roberts at the Oxford Arms,
in Warwick Lane, MDCCXLVI

   The arguments offered by this anonymous writer, in his

" Answer " to Ferguson's " Dissertation," are weak --of no

force whatever; consequently, they made no impression on

those who understood the question in dispute. Ferguson pub

lished no special rejoinder, probably thinking that it suffi
ciently refuted itself. It would seem, however, from our me

moranda, that a discussion on the "moon's rotation" was car

ried on in the newspapers, &c., of the time, between the writer
of the ''Answer," Mr. Ferguson, and others, and that the author

of the "Answer" had the worst of " and somewhat lost his
temper." During the discussion, Ferguson, fiuding that a Mr

Grove, at Richmond, in Surrey, was the author of the " Answer,''
it,

                   A
resolved to have a personal interview with him on the subject

of his anti-lunar rotat ion theories. Ferguson accordingly went

to Richmond, but Mr. Grove refused to see him.  writer of
last century, referring to this rudeness of Mr. Grove, says, " most
                       JAMES FERGUSON.                                       127

generous Ferguson; most unhandsome and narrow-minded
Grove, you ought to have been polite" The following are copies
of notes written on the cover of Mr. Grove's "Answer" to Fer
guson's " Dissertat ion," in our possession :--

      1st note says, " This Answer to Mr. Ferguson's Essay is by Mr.

                    "  Grove of Richmond, Surrey."
                    "
      2d  do.          A composition of ignorance and  petulance."  Fergu
      3d  do.          This man was so annoyed at      last with

                       son, that he refused to see him when he went tu

                       t int him ; so disagreeable is it to be convicted of

                       error, when an ignorant man sets up for learned."

  In the year 1751, Mr. Grove again went into print with "A

Supplement" to his "Answer on Ferguson's Essay." (See

date 1751.)

James Feruuson born. ---Referring to our extracts from the

fly-leaves of the small pocket Bible which belonged to the Fer

guson family, and noticed under date 1745, we find that Fergu

son's eldest sou, baptized James, was born in October 1748.

The   following is  the copy of the   entry, (the      original  on  the fly
leaf  in the Bible  is in Ferguson's  autograph)
                                                       :--

          "JaMKS, born Tuesday 11th October, 174S."

   This son, of whom little is known, died of consumption in
1772, to which, and also to date 1763, the reader is referred for

other notices.

   The Crank Orrery. -- According to our memoranda, as also

from a date on an old drawing of this orrery, it is evident that
Ferguson invented and made it about the close of the year
1748. The principal parts of this orrery so strongly resemble
those of tlie three-wheeled one which Ferguson made at the

end of the year 1745 to demonstrate the Moon's rotation, that
we are inclined to assume, that in designing and constructing
this one, he had that orrery in view. The annexed engraving
represents a view of its several parts, which will be clearly un

derstood by the following description :--
   In his description of this orrery, Ferguson says, " In this

machine, which is the simplest I ever saw for showing the

diurnal and annual motions of the Earth, together with the
128 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Moon and her nodes, A and B are two oblong square plates,
held together by four upright pillars, of which three appear at /, g,
and g 2. Under the plate A is an endless screw on the axis of

the handle h, which works in a wheel fixed on the same axis with

the double-grooved wheel E ; and on the top of this axis is fixed

                        The Crank Orrery.

the toothed wheel which turns the wheel k, on the top ot

whose axis is the small wheel & 2, which turns another, 6 2, and

that turns a third, which, being fixed on a 2, the axis of the

Earth U turns it round and the Earth with it. This last axis

inclines at an angle of 23^ degrees. The supporter, X 2, in which

the axis of the Earth turns, is fixed to the moveable plate C.
   " In the fixed plate B, beyond H, is fixed the strong wire d, on

which hangs the Sun T, so as it may turn round the wire. To

this Sun is fixed the wire or solar ray Z, which (as the Earth U
turns round its axis) points to all the places that the Sun passes
vertically over every day of the year. The Earth is half covered

with a black cap a, as in the former orrery (of 1745), for
dividing the day from the night ; and as the different places

come out from below the age of the cap, or go in below they
it

                   is
                                     d
                                                   ;

                                                                               b,

                                                                                   a
                                                                                                        it,

                                                                                          C
show the times of Sun-rising and setting every day of the year.

This cap  fixed on the wire which has forked piece

turning round the wire  and as the Earth goes round the Sun,

carries the cap, wire, and solar ray, round him, so that the

solar ray constantly points toward the Earth's centre.
                             JAMES i'EUUUSON.                                                                                                   129

" On the axis of the wheel k is the wheel m, which turns a

wheel on the cock or supporter n, and on the axis of this wheel,

nearest n, is a pinion (hid from view) under the plate C, which

pinion turns a wheel that carries the Moon V round the Earth U;

the Moon's axis rising and falling in the socket W, which is fixed

to the triangular piece above Z, and this piece is fixed to the top

of the axis of the last-mentioned wheel. The socket W is slit

on the outermost side, and in this slit the two pins near Y,

fixed in the Moon's axis, move up and down, one of them being
above the inclined plane Y X, and the other below
                                                        Y                By this
                                                           U

                                                               it.
mechanism, the Moon moves round the Earth in the in
                             E is
                                 V

                                      X,

                                       X

                                                   2.
clined orbit parallel to the plaue of the ring X, of which
it,
                         q,
the descending node at and the ascending node opposite to

but hid by the supporter                                G     and  ; F,  of equal
" The small wheel turns the large wheels                   D

diameters, by cat-gut strings crossing between them and the

axes of these two wheels are cranked at and H above the

       T, B,  with a motion which carries the Earth round the
plate                                                         U

Sun keeping the Earth's axis always parallel to itself, or still

inclining toward the left hand of the plate, and showing the
vicissitudes of seasons. As the Earth goes round the Sun, the

wheel goes round the wheel for the axis of never touches
       k                                      i,        L,
                                                              k
                    2
                                                                                    C.
the fixed plate B, but turns on wire fixed into the plate
" On the top of the crank                     G
                                                  is a  an index which goes round

the circle m in the same time that the Earth goes round the

Sun, and points to the days of the months, which, together with

the names of the seasons, are marked on this circle.                                   round
   " This index has small grooved wheel fixed upon
"                                                       L
                ;                                                    Y

                     is                                                           it,
                                     a

                                          Z,
which, and the plate goes a cat-gut string, crossing between
them and by this means the Moon's inclined plane, X, with

its nodes, turned backward, for showing the times and returns

of eclipses.
   " The following parts of this machine must be considered as

distinct from those already described.
   " Toward the right hand let be the Earth hung on the wire
is e,
                is

                               C,
                                                 S

                                                            Q
                                                                        is

                                                                     O
                                                                                               h P,

                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                             ;
which fixed into the plate B, and let be the Moon fixed

on the axis M, and turning round within the cap in which,

and in the plate the crooked wire                       fixed. On the axis M

also fixed the index K, which goes round a circle                        divided

into 29£ equal parts, which are the days of the Moon's age but
                                                          R
130 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

to avoid confusion in the scheme, it is only marked with the
numeral figures 1, 2, 3, 4, for the quarters. As the crank H

carries this Moon round the Earth S in the orbit t, she shows

all her phases by means of the cap P, for the different days of

her age, which are shown by the index K ; this index, turning

just as the Moon O does, demonstrates her turning round her
axis, as she still keeps the same side toward the Earth.

   " At the other end of the plate C, a Moon N goes round an
Earth R in the orbit P. But this Moon's axis is stuck fast into

the plate C at S 2, so that neither Moon nor axis can turn round ;
and as this Moon goes round her Earth, she shows herself all

round to which proves, that the Moon was seen all roundit,
         a

                         if
from the Earth, in lunation, she could not turn round her axis.
    IfN.B. -- " there were only the two wheels and
                                   N                     with a
                                      D
cat-gut string over them, but not crossing between them, the
                                           V
axis of the Earth would keep its parallelism round the SunF,
         U
                     O                                 S,

                           I
T,  and show all the seasons --as  sometimes make these

machines; and the Moon would go round the Earth show

ing her phases, as likewise would the Moon round the Earth
R; but then, neither could the diurnal motion of the Earth, U,

on its axis, be shown, nor the motion of the Moon round the

Earth."11s (Ferguson's Astronomy, Chapter XXII., Art. 398,

and Plate VI., Fig. 1st.)

                                                     1749.

   The Calculator. -- The beginning of the year 1749 found

Ferguson busy with the construction of an astronomical ma
chine, which, when finished, he called The Calculator. He, in

Chapter XII. and Section 399 of his Astronomy, describes the

Calculator, and informs us that its internal mechanism was
similar to that of " The Four- Wheeled Orrery," which he made
in 1746, with the exception of an additional wheel, and that in
consequence of this additional wheel, he discarded the original
name of " The Four-Wheeled Orrery" and adopted that of" The
Calculator." The mechanism of The Four- Wheeled Orrery of
1746 being identical with that of the Calculator, excepting that

the latter had an additional wheel -- we have only to refer the

    16s Ferguson, although he minutely describes the positions of the several wheels
in this (.'rank Orrery, does not mention how many teeth each wheel has this
1o bo regretted, because the numbers of teeth ill the wheels are as important to
be known as are their positions.
                                                    ;
                                                                  is
                    JAMES FERGUSON.                               131

reader to the description and section of the former, under date

 1746, in order that the interior works of the Calculator may be
understood ; and shall here only describe the posit ion of " the
additional wheel," and what it accomplished.

    Annexed is a small section of the pulley- work of the Calcula
tor (Fig. 1) ; on comparing it with that of " The Four-Wheeled
Orrery" it will be found that they are alike, with the excep
tion of an additional pulley in the former, on the right-hand

side, and the pulleys of the same being brought into closer con
tact. In the section, which we here give, of the Calculator, it
will be observed that the large central pulley is made to act as

four jmlleys, whilst in " The Four- Wheeled Orrery " it acts as

three ; on the right of the section of the Calculator there are

four pulleys, in the Four- Wheeled Orrery there are three only.

                                                Fig. 1.

                    Section of the Pulley- Work.

     The position of the additional pulley, or whzel, as Ferguson calls

8 it,  will therefore be readily discovered in the top pulley of the

     system of moveable pulleys on the right-hand side of the an

     nexed section, and which connected with the new cut groove
                  it
                      it

                             ;

                                            is
     opposite to in the top of the large fixed pulley in the centre
     of the machine therefore, the Calculator having an addi

     tional wheel,  has, by such an arrangement, two wheels or

     pulleys added to it. The new pulley has been introduced for

     the purpose of carrying a circular plate to show the place of the

     Moon's apogee, perigee, &c., and must therefore have progres
                                                               a

     sive motion through all the signs and degrees of the ecliptic in

     years and 309 days and in order that such a motion should
                    ;

                               it

                                                    ;

                                                          is,

                                                     if
be given to this new pulley, must bear the same relation to

the centre pulley as 62 days to 55 that                        62 represents the

diameter of the groove of the new pulley, then 55 will represent
132 EXTENDED MEMUIB OF

that of the groove of the fixed pulley iu the centre. In order

to throw the numbers 62 and 55 into a workable form, we require

to find lesser numbers to represent their relative values ; by an

easy process, we find that when they are reduced to inches they

will stand thus :---2 inches, and 1 fjs inch ; therefore, let the new

moveable pulley, on the right in the section, have the diameter of

the bottom of its groove exactly 2 inches, and that of the groove

on the top of the large fixed pulley in the centre, and oppo
2site to

         8£ it,
                    is 1

                         If

                                                                            2.

                                                                           it,
                                                                                 is it
         be I7,,7©inches, or                               inch fully; and on this being

done, and the two pulleys connected by a cat-gut string, will

be found that on the frame containing the pulley- work being

moved times completely round the central stem, the pulley

of inches will have made one revolution exactly, which the

period of revolution of the Moon's apogee.159 The new or addi

tional pulley furnished with a short hollow axis, which turns

round upon the hollow axis of the pulley below which carries

                                   Fig.

                        Ferguson's Calculator.

round the Moon's orbit, and ascends about quarter of an inch
                                                           a
above the upper surface of the circular plate which covers the   is

works, and on which     tightly fixed plate, having on the            a
                    +                                                        it
                       6

                                is

                                                     8
                                                        7
places of the Moon's apogee, perigee, &c., which moves round in

 years, and thus shows when the Moon in apogee or perigee.

The pulley-works of the Calculator having been brought

l59 The mean periodic revolution of the Moon's apogee                    is  accomplished in

3231 days 11 hours  25  minutes,   or                    ye=ars55,anodr$3j0,94tiredaynsu,mbeeqrusalgitvoen8. f  years
nearly hence, 8x7                  62 --
;                       = 62, and
JAMES FERGUSON.  133

into closer contact, allows them to be put into a box of a much
more convenient size and form than that of its original. The
Four- Wheeled Orrery (Fig. 2) shows the exterior appearance of

the Calculator after it was finished ; it will be seen that Fer

guson has put the works into a polygonal box, very much re

sembling that of his orrery, which gives the Calculator a

handsome appearance, and is altogether a great improvement
on " The Four- Wheeled Orrery."

   For further particulars, see Ferguson's Astronomy, Chapter
XII., Section 399, article " The Calculator." Somewhere about

the year 1765, Ferguson further improved his Calculator by
substituting wheel-work for pulleys and cat-gut strings, thus
insuring a greater degree of accuracy in the motion of its seve
ral parts. (Sec Orrery under date 1765.)

    Ferguson resolves to Lecture on more Sciences than
Astronomy. -- Ferguson had by this time (1749) been a pub
lic lecturer on Popular Astronomy for rather more than a
year, during which period he had delivered several courses of
lectures in London, as also in the provinces. Although his lec
tures were not altogether a failure, yet he had gained consider
able experience, and had seen sufficient to convince him that it
would not be beneficial for his pecuniary interest to confine his
lectures entirely to Astronomy, a,s he had hitherto done, but to ex
tend his course to other subjects, such as Mechanics, Pneumatics,
Hydraulics, Hydrostatics, Electricity, Optics, and Dialling ; thus,
by diversifying his course, he rightly concluded that he would
likely draw larger audiences, and consequently have a much
better chance of success.

    Having thus resolved on extending his course of lec
tures, the question of the extent and cost of apparatus next
engaged his attention. In order properly to illustrate and de
monstrate so many subjects as he had chosen, would require a
large and complex apparatus, attended with considerable ex
pense. The purchasing and collecting this apparatus would be
to him a question of time ; because, regulated by the state of
his finances, and as his means were but very slender, he resolved
to make, with his own hands, the greater portion of his instru
ments, and occasionally to purchase, from opticians, and others,
those only that he could not conveniently make himself.
13+ EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   He therefore set earnestly to work, and got up a set of large
and accurately delineated astronomical diagrams for the illus
tration of the theories of Ptolemy, Copernicus, and Tycho
Brahe ; as also, diagrams for the demonstration of the cause of
the Ebb and Flow of the Tides --the Phenomena of Eclipses,
&c. -- He also at this time invented and made an ingenious tide-
dial, and also made a centrifugal machine for the illustration of
central forces. The following are sketches and descriptions of
these two pieces of apparatus.

   The Tide-Dial. -- " The outside parts of this machine con

sist of, 1st, an eight-sided box, on the top of which, at the cor
nel's, is shown the phases of the Moon, at the octants, quarters,

                                                      The Tide-Dial.

and full ; within these is a circle of 29£ equal parts, which are
the days of the Moon's age, counted from the Sun at new
Moon round to the Sun again. Within this circle is one of 24-

hours, divided into their respective halves and quarters. -- 2d,
A moving elliptical plate, painted blue, to represent the rising

of the tides, under and opposite to the Moon, which has the words,

high water, tide falli ng, low water, tide rising, marked upon it.

To one end of this plate is fixed the Moon M, by the wire W,
JAMKS FEKliUSON.                                                                     135

and goes along with it. -- 3d, Above this elliptical plate is a

circle, with the points of the compass upon
I                                            and also the
                                                                 it,
                                                                                                                           ;
names of above 200 places in the large machine (but only 32
in the figure, to avoid confusion), set over those points

on which the Moon bears when she raises the tides to the

greatest heights at these places twice in every lunar day

and to the north and south points of this plate are fixed

two indexes and K, which show the times of high water, in
the hour circle, at all these places. -- 4th, Below the elliptical

plate are four small plates, two of which project out from below

its ends at new and full Moon; and so, by lengthening the

ellipse, shows the spring tides, which are then raised to the

greatest heights by the united attractions of the Sun and Moon.

The other two of these small plates appear at low water when

the Moon in her quadratures, or at the sides of the elliptic
is

                                              ;
                                                  ;

                                                          a
                                                                                 is
plate, to show the neap tides the Sun and Moon then acting

crosswise to each other. When any two of these small plates

appear, the other two are hid and when the Moon in her

octants, they all disappear, there being neither spring nor neap

tides at those times. Within the box are few wheels for per

forming these motions by the handle or winch H.
   " Turn the handle until the Moon M comes to any given day

of her age in the circle of 29£ equal parts, and the Moon's wire
W will cut the time of her coming to the meridian on that day

in the hour circle the XII. under the Sun being mid-day, and
the opposite XII. mid-night then looking for the name of any
;
                         ;

given place on the round plate (which makes 2!H rotations,
whilst the Moon M makes one revolution from the Sun to the

Sun again), turn the handle till thai place comes to the words

high water, under the Moon, and the index, which falls among

the forenoon hours, will show the time of high water in the

forenoon of the given day. Then turn the plate half round till

the same places come to the opposite high-water mark, and the

index will show the time of high water in the afternoon of that

place. And thus, as all the different places come successively

under and opposite to the Moon, the indexes show the times of

high water at them in both parts of the day; and when the same

places come to the low-water marks, the indexes show the times
of low water. For about three days before and after the times

of new and full Moon, the two small plates come out little way
                                             a
136 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

from below the high-water marks on the elliptical plate, to show
that the tides rise still higher about these times ; and about the
quarters, the other two plates come out a little from under the
low-water marks, towards the Sun, and' on the opposite side,
showing that the tides of flood rise not then so high, nor do the
tides of ebb fall so low, as at other times.

   " By pulling the handle a little way outward, it is disengaged
from the wheel-work, and then the upper plate may be turned
round quickly by hand so, as the Moon may be brought to any
given day of her age in about a quarter of a minute; and by
pushing in the handle, it takes hold of the wheel-work again.

                                                                                  11

    The following is a description of the wheel-work inside the

box :--" On A B, the axis of the handle H (Fig. Is), is an endless

screw C, which turns the wheel FED of 24 teeth round in 24

revolutions of the handle ; this wheel turns another, O N G. of 48

LKI.teeth, and on its axis is the pinion P Q of 4 leaves, which turns
the wheel           of  59   teeth round in 29 1  turnings or rotations
of the wheel             or  in 70S revolutions   of the handle, which
              FED,

is the number of hours in a synodical revolution of the Moon.

                        F
                          E

                                D,
                                                                          it,
                                                                              is
The round plate, with the names of places upon                                    fixed on

the axis of the wheel        and the elliptical or tide-plate.
                                       JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                  137

with the Moon fixed to                 it,     upon the axis of the wheel K
                                           is                                                                        L  I

                                                                                                                             ;

consequently, the former makes 29£ revolutions in the time

that the latter makes one. The whole wheel                           F                                          D, with the
                                                                        E

endless screw         (J,  and dotted part of the axis of the handle A                                                  B,

together with the dotted part of the wheel                O       N                                             lie hid below
                                                                      G,

the large wheel       L        Q, KI.
   " Fig. represents the under side of the elliptical or tide-
             2,

plate a,              with the four small plates          A                                                             H,
           M,         R, O d,                                B
                          P                                      C
                                                                      E
                                                                           F
                                                                                 G
             b,                                                                                                 ,D,
                  c,

TIK               N                  upon it; each of which has two slits, as
    L

                     U U, sliding on two pins, as n n, fixed in theT,S,
  elliptical plate. In the four small plates are fixed four pins atS
  W, X, Y, and all of which work in an elliptic groove ooR

                      Z,                                                                                             o
                                                                                                                                o,

  on the cover of the box below the elliptical plate, the longest

  axis of this groove being in right line with the Sun .and full
                                       X
  Moon consequently, when the Moon       Ya

                                                     Z
                                                               is

                                                                           g

                                                                       A
                                                                              B
                                                                             h. E C
                                                                                FdD
                                                                                        G
b, I                                                      in conjunction or op

 K/position, the pins W and thrust out the plates                                                                       and
      L;
        M a little beyond the ends of the elliptic plate at and

    to and whilst the pins and draw in the plates                                                                       H
                  ;e

and N     O  P        quite under the elliptic plate to and                                                             But,
                Q

  when the Moon comes to her first or third quarter, the elliptic

ABCDplate lies across the fixed elliptic groove in which the pins work                                                  ;

and therefore, the end plates                             and M are drawn
                                                          I
                                                              K                                                      H and
                                                                L
                                                                   E
                                                                      F

                                                                             G
  in below the great plate, and the other two plates

is N              are thrust out beyond to a and <*. When the Moon
                                               it
    O
      P                                               Z,
              Q,
    in her octants, the pins W, X, Y, are in the parts oooo of

the elliptic groove, which parts are at mean between the
                                                          a
                                                                 q,
greatest and least distances from the centre and then all the

four small plates disappear below the great one." (Vide Fer

guson's Astronomy-- 3d Edit. 4to, 17fi4, pp. 29<S, 297, 298.) 180

   Centrifugal Machine. --Ferguson, after finishing his in
genious Tide-Dial, turned his attention to the making of a

machine for demonstration of the law of centrifugal forces,

especially as applied to Astronomy.
           well known, he observes, that " all globular bodies, whose

parts can yield, and which do not turn on their axes, must be
  It\
       is

                       1,
                            2,
                                 3,
                                              4.
                                                                        S
                                                                                 a

                                                                                     a
                                                                                                             a
   160 description, with reference plates, of Tide Kotula, with accurate mo
tions, invented hy us, will be found in the I,ondnn Mechanics' Magazine, Vol. 16,
                                       We have in our possession
No. 4'2f>,pp.              aml                                                                                  very neatly-w ritten

explanation of the. theory of the tides, with diagram for reference, in the auto-
graph of Ferguson.
138 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

perfect spheres, because all parts of their surfaces are equally

attracted toward their centres. But all such globes as do turn on
their axes will be oblate spheroids ; that their surfaces will be
                                     in
higher, or farther from the centre,           is,
                                     the equatorial than in the

polar regions for as the equatorial parts must move quickest,
they must have the greatest centrifugal force, and will therefore
:
          ;

                is

                if
recede farthest from the axis of motion."

The following an engraving and description of the Centri

fugal Machine constructed by him at this period, to illustrate
this law --" Thus,
                    two circular hoops A and                          D, made
                                                   B
                                                               C

thin and flexible, and crossing each other at right angles, be

                    Centrifugal Machine.

turned round their axis EF
                    E,
                                     B, by
                                              C,

                                           F
                                                   it

                                                                  G,

                                                         if
                                     means of the winch m, the

wheel n, and pinion o, and the axis be loose in the pole or in

tersection the middle parts, A,           D, will swell out so as to
;
strike against the sides of the frame at and                          the pole e,
            is e,
in sinking to the pin be not stopped by from sinking far
ther so that the whole will appear of an oval figure, the equa

torial diameter being considerably longer than the polar. That

our Earth of this figure,  is  demonstrable from actual mea

surement of some degrees on its surface, which arc found to be

                                                                                   4
                          JAMES FERGUSON.                              13<)

longer in the frigid zones than in the torrid ; and the difference
is found to be such as proves the Earth's equatorial diameter to
be thirty-six miles more than its axis. Seeing then, that the
Earth is higher at the equator than at the poles, the sea, which
like all other fluids naturally runs downward (or toward the places
which are nearest the Earth's centre), would run towards the polar
regions, and leave the equatorial parts dry, if the centrifugal force
of the water, which carried it to those parts, and so raised them,
did not detain and keep it from running back again towards
the poles of the Earth." These observations are from Fergu
son's description of this machine in his " Lectures on Select
Subjects in Mechanics, Hydrostatics, Pneumatics, Optics, and

Astronomy."

   Ferguson's Residence. --According to an autograph letter

of Ferguson in the collection of the late Dawson Turner,
Esq., of Yarmouth, Ferguson, about 1749, resided in lodgings
in Great Pulteney Street.

                                                     1750.

   The MECHANICAL Paradox. -- It would appear from our me

moranda, as also from other references, that it was during the
year 1750 that Ferguson invented and made his celebrated

machine, called " The Mechanical Paradox." In several of
his works he mentions that he made it " on a very par

ticular occasion," but without informing us of anything regard
ing this " particular occasion." But it is now certain that he
made this curious machine for the purpose of silencing a
London watchmaker who did not believe in the doctrine
of the Trinity, as will, be shown by a very interesting letter,
written by Ferguson a few months before his death, to a
clerical friend of his in the north of Scotland, a copy of
which the reader will find at the conclusion of the descrip
tion of the Paradox. The following is from Ferguson's own

description of the machine --: 161

161 In three of Ferguson's works the Mechanical Paradox is described, but they
all differ as  to the     da"teThweheDnescitripwtaiosn  lirst          In a Tract, published by
him in 1764,   entitled,                                 and   made.   a new machine, called The
                                                               Use of

Mechanical     Paradox, invented   by James Ferguson,                  F. R.S,"p. 4, we find him
saying that                        particular occasion,                about fourteen years ago,"
                it was "on a very

when he contrived the Paradox, that  is,                14 years before 1764, that he wrote this

Tract, which refers to the year 1750, the year we have adopted. This Tract was
140 EXTENOF-n MEMOIR OF

        " On a very particular occasion, about fourteen years ago,

I contrived the Mechanical Paradox, which has been shown and

Iexplained to many, and which shall here describe.

     " It is represented in the annexed figure, in which A is

called the immoveable plate, because it lies on a table whilst the
machine is at work ; B C is a moveable frame to be turned round
an upright axis a (fixt into the centre of the immoveable plate),
by taking hold of the knob n.

        " On the said axis is fixt the immoveable wheel D, whose
teeth take into the teeth of the thick moveable wheel E, and
turns it round its own axis as the frame is turned round the
fixt axis of the immoveable wheel D, and in the same direction
that the frame is moved.

                                                              Fig. 1.

                         Mechanical Paradox.

       " The teeth of the thick wheel E take equally deep into
the teeth of the three wheels F, G, and H, but operate on these

specially written to describe the Paradox, and nothing else, and we must admit
the "14 years ago," or 1750, as the correct date of the invention of this
                           in his      "Tahies and Tracts," London, 1767, p.
              Ferguson,  Paradox
          Mechanical
Ic1u71ri,oussaysma"chTihnee.
and ma/le about fifteen years aao."    is  a small kind  of orrery  which contrived
                                            we subtract
                                       If                15 years   "froSmelec1t76M7ecithawniill

give 1752 as the date when Ferguson    made it ; and again, in his
                                       p. 46, he says, "On a very Ixirticular occa
cal Exercises," 3d Edit., Lond. 1770,
sion, about eighteen years ago, I contrived a small machine called the Mechanical
Paradox," and 18 years subtracted from 1773, gives 1755 as the date when it was
made ; thus, Ferguson gives 1750, 1752, and 1755 as the dates of his invention
of the Paradox, and we find it difficult to reconcile them : hut we incline to favour
the earliest date, 1750, as given in the Tract he wrote purposely to explain th«

machine.
                 JAMES FERGUSON.                                 141

wheels in such a manner, that whilst the frame is turned round,

the wheel H turns the same way that the wheel E does, the
wheel G turns the contrary way, and the wheel F no way at all.

        " Before we explain the principles on which these three
different effects depend, it will not be improper to fix some

certain criteria for bodies turning or not turning round their

own axis or centres, and to make a distinction between absolute

and relative motion.

     " ls<, If a body show all its sides progressively round to

ward a certain fixed point in the heavens, the body turns round
its own axis or centre, whether it remains still in the same place,

or has a progressive motion in any orbit whatever ; for unless
it does turn round its own centre, it cannot possibly have one

of its sides toward the west at one time, toward the south at

another, toward the east at a third time, and toward the north

at a fourth. This is the case with the Moon, which always

keeps one side toward the Earth, but shows the same side to
every fixed point of the starry heaven, in the plane of her orbit,
in the time she goes once round her orbit; because in the time

that   she goes   round her orbit,    she   turns  once   round   her own
axis  or centre                            a body  still  keeps  one of its
                 ;--on the contrary,   if

sides toward a fixed point of the heaven, the body does not turn

round its own axis or centre, whether it keeps in one and the

same place, or has a progressive motion in any orbit or direction
whatever. This is the case with the card of the compass of a
ship, which still keeps one of its points towards the magnetic

north, let the ship be at rest or sail round a circle many miles

in diameter.
       " Both of these cases may be exemplified either by a cube

or a globe having a pin fixt into either of its sides to hold it by.

We shall suppose a cube, because its sides are flat. -- Sit down

by a table, and hold the cube by the pin, which may be called

its axis, and keep one of its sides toward any side of the room.

Whilst you do this, you do not turn the cube round its axis,

whether you still keep it in the same place or carry it round

any other fixed body on the table ; but if you try to keep any

side of the cube toward the fixed body whilst you are carrying
it round the same, you will find that you cannot do so without

turning the pin round (which is fixt into the cube) betwixt theit,
finger and thumb whereby you hold unless you rise and walk
142 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

round the table, keeping your face always toward the fixed body

on the table, and then both yourself and the cube will have

turned once round ; for the cube will have shown the same side

progressively round to all sides of the room, and your face will

have been turned toward every side of the room, and every fixed

point of the horizon.1"2
If" 2d,
               a ship turns round, and at the same time, a man

stands on the deck without moving his feet, he is turned ab

solutely round by the motion of the ship, tho' he has no relative

motion with respect to the ship ; but whilst the ship turn
                                if,
                                                       is,

                                                                is
ing round, he endeavours to turn himself round the contrary

way, he thereby only undoes the effect that the turning of the

ship would otherwise have had upon himself, and in fact, so

far from turning absolutely round, that he keeps himself from

turning at all, and the ship turns round him as round a fixed

axis, although, with respect to the ship, he has a relative motion.
" Fig.
            2           a small plan or flat view of the machine in which
                is
                      1,
the same letters of reference are put to the wheels in as to
                                2.

                                                                it
those in Fig.             for the conveniency of looking at both the

                          Fig.

            l'lan of the Wheels, Frames, &c, of the Mechanical Paradox.

figures, in reading the description of them. -- W                        N the
            is
                   a
                                 ;
                                                 ;

                                         E,
                                                                             S

                                                                    E

                                                                                                    is
immoveable plate D, the immoveable wheel on the fixt axis in

the centre of that plate  the thick moveable wheel, whose

i62 We give familiar illustration of the Moon's rotation in note 143, to which

the reader  referred.
JAMES FERGUSON.  143

teeth take into the teeth of the wheel D; and F is one of the
thin wheels, over which G and H may be put ; and then F, G,
and H will make a thickness equal to the thickness of the wheel

E, and its teeth will take equally deep into the teeth of them

all. The frame that holds these wheels is represented by the

parallelogram abed; and if it be turned round, it can give no

motion to the wheel D, because that wheel is fixt on an axis

which in fixt into the immoveable plate.

      " Take away the thick wheel E, and leave the wheel F
where it lies, on the lower plate of the frame. Then turn the
frame round the axis of the immoveable plate W S E N (de
noted by A in Fig. 1), and it will carry the wheel F round with
it. In doing this, F will still keep one and the same side to
ward the fixt central wheel D, as the Moon still keeps the same
side to the Earth ; and although F will then have no relative
motion with respect to the moving frame, it will be absolutely

turned round its own centre g (like the man on the ship whilst
he stood without moving his feet on the deck), for the cross
mark on its opposite side will be progressively turned toward

all the sides of the room.

      " But if we would keep the wheel F from turning round its
own centre, and so cause the cross mark upon it to keep always

toward one side of the room, or like the magnetic needle, to

keep the same point still toward one fixed point in the horizon,

we must produce an effect upon F resembling what the man on

the ship did by endeavouring to turn himself the contrary way
to <khat which the ship turned, so as he might keep from turn

ing at all, and by that means keep his face still toward one and
the same point of the horizon. And this is done by making the

numbers of teeth equal in the wheels D and F (suppose 20 in
each), and putting the thick wheel E between thein so as to

take into the teeth of them both ; for then, as the frame is

turned round the axis of the fixed wheel D, by means of the

knob 71, the wheel E is turned round its axis by the wheel D ;

and for every space of a tooth that the frame would turn the
wheel F, in direction of the motion of the frame, the wheel E

will counteract that motion by turning the wheel F just as far

backward with respect to the motion of the frame, and so will

keep F from turning any way round its own centre, and the

cross mark near its edge will be always directed towards one
144 EXTENDKI) MEMOIR OF

side of the room. Whether the wheel E has the same number
of teeth as D and F have, or any different number, its effect on
F will be still the same.

     If" F had one tooth less in number than D has, the effect

produced on F, by the turning of the frame, would be as much
more than counteracted by the intermediate wheel E, as is equal
to the space of one tooth in F ; and therefore, while the frame
was turned once round in direction of the letters W S E N on
the immovable plate, the wheel F would be turned the contrary

way, as much as is equal to the space taken up by one of its

teeth; but if F had one tooth more than D has, the effect of the
motion of the frame (which is turned F round in the same di

rection with it), would not be fully counteracted by means of
the intermediate wheel E, for as much of that effect would

remain as is equal to the space of one tooth in F ; and therefore,
in the time the frame was turned once round, the wheel F would

turn on its own centre, in direction of the motion of the frame,

as much as is equal to the space taken up by one of its teeth ;

and here' note, that the wheel E (which turns F) always turns

in direction of the motion of the frame.

       "And therefore, if an upright pin be fixed into the lower
plate of the frame, under the centre of the wheel F, and if the

wheel F has the same number of teeth that the fixt wheel D
has, the wheel G one tooth less, and the wheel H one tooth
more ; and if these three wheels are put loosely upon this pin,
so as to be at liberty to turn either way, and the thick wheel E

takes into the teeth of them all, and also into the teeth of the

fixt wheel D, then, whichever way the frame is turned the wheel
H will turn the satiu: tray, the wheel G the contrary way, and

the wheel F no way at all. The less number of teeth G has.
with respect to those in D, the faster it will turn backward; and
the greater number of teeth H hiis, with respect to those in D,
the faster it will turn forward, reckoning that motion to be back

ward which is contrary both to the motion of the frame and of
the thick wheel E, and that motion to lie forward which is in

the same direction with the motion of the frame and of the

wheel E ; so that the turning or not turning of the three wheels,
F, G, H, or the direction and velocity of the motions of those

that do turn round, depends entirely on the relation between

their numbers of teeth, and the number of teeth in the fixt
                             JAMES FERGUSON.                       145

wheel D, without any regard to the number of teeth in the
moveable wheel E." 163 (Vide " The Description and Use of a
new Machine called the Mechanical Paradox," invented by James

Ferguson, F. R. S., London, 1764, pp. 4-- 9 ; also, Ferguson's
" Tables and Tracts relative to several Arts and Sciences," Lon

don, 1767, pp. 171, 172; Ferguson's "Select Mechanical Exer
cises," London, 1773, pp. 46 -- 57.

    We now subjoin the long and interesting letter already re
ferred to, written by Ferguson to his friend the Rev. Mr. Cooper,
of Glass, regarding the origin of the Mechanical Paradox.164

  Ferguson's interesting Autograph Letter on the origin
of the Mechanical Paradox. --

" Reverend and Dear Sir, -- I am glad that my last letter

came safe to your hands, and do return you my sincere thanks for

delivering the one enclosed in it to my sister, begging that you

will now repeat the same favour, as it is exactly on a similar

Ioccasion, and she may still be in need of a small supply. thank
IGod that am now much recovered of my gravel, and in hopes

of getting quite well again.

     I" herewith send you an account of my Mechanical Para

dox, and my three letters to parson Kennedy, who is now very
quiet. He has been most sadly trimmed by all the monthly re

viewers. My interview with the watchmaker was as follows :--

One evening I went to a weekly club with a friend, and on our

entering the room (or very soon after), the watchmaker began
to hold forth violently against a Trinity of persons in the God

head, wondering at the impudence of the person who broached

Isuch an absurd doctrine, and at the weakness and folly of every
one who believed it.         happened to sit just opposite to him,

with the table between us, and (you may believe) plenty of wine

                             gave him a severe frowning look, on
and punch uponis
              a

                           it.

                                          1

                                             T

                                                      II
                                                            I
which he asked my opinion concerning the Trinity. told him

that all my belief thereof depended upon the opinion had of

the sure knowledge and veracity of the revealer, but that did

163 We may mention that such results from wheel-work combinations were
known long before the year 1750, when Ferguson made the Paradox, as we find
similar combinations of wheels used in the orreries and planetary machines of
Rowley, Wright, and others.
l&4 Glass  parish in the south-western district of Banffshire, the Church and

Manse of which are situated about 10 miles to the south of Keith.
146 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

not think it was a proper subject to be talked of over our bottles,

bowls, and glasses, and should therefore be desirous of talking

to him about his own business. Very well, said he, let us talk

about                'Sir, said  bebeve you know very well how one
                   it.

                                  II,
                                        I
                                                I

                                                                                                   I,
wheel must turn another, or how a pinion must turn a wheel,

or a wheel turn a pinion.                                           hope do, said he. Then, said

suppose you make one wheel as thick as other three, and cut
teeth in them all, and then put the three thin wheels all loose

upon one axis, and set the thick wheel to them, so that its teeth

may take into those of the three thin ones now turn the thick
                   is

                                    ;

                                               it

                                                                                                            ; ?;
wheel round how must turn the others Says he, your ques
tion almost an affront to common sense for every one who

knows anything of the matter must know that, turn the thick

wheel which way you will, all the other three must be turned

the contrary way by it. Sir, says                                        believe you think so.
                                it

                                     is

                                          ; II,
                                                         a
                                                           I,
                                                      I
                                                                          it
                                                                                     is

                                                                                          if
Think says he,                   beyond                             thought --                                    demonstration
it I
that they must. Sir, said!                                          would not have you be too sure,

                   lest you possibly be mistaken and now what would you say

                     should say that, turn the thick wheel whichever way you will,
                      shall turn one of the thin wheels the same way, the other the
                   contrary way, and the third no way at all. Says he, would
                                                                                                                  I

                   say that there never was anything proposed that could be more

                   absurd, as being not only above our reason, but contrary thereto,

and also to plain fact. Very well, says                                                                           Now, Sir, there
                                                                         I I.
                                                                                         ?
                                                                                                     is
                                                                                                       is
                   anything in your ideas more absurd about the received doctrine

                   of the Trinity than in this proposition of mine There not,

                   said he and   could believe the one, should believe the
1

   I
                 ;

                it

                iIf
                       I

                               I

                                                       a
                   other too. Gentlemen, said (looking at the company), you
                   hear this, bear witness to it. The watchmaker asked me whether

                   had ever made or seen such machine.                                                            told him had not,
                                                                    G it,                                         a
                   but believed that could make
                   thought of till that instant.165 By                 d, I                                        I
                                                                      although had never                             I

                                                                    -- says he, your head

                      165 Ferguson, we have no doubt, never made machine before this time exaaa
                   pressly for the purpose of demonstrating such proposition, but he was at the
                   time familiar enough with the principle of such machine, as he had previously                        a
                   made orreries, in which was wheel-work, for preserving the parallelism of the
                   Earth's axis in its revolution round the Sun, and the wheel, which in such set
                   of wheels supports the oblique axis of the Earth, maI- be said to have no moliun
                   at all because any given tooth in preserves its position to given fixed point
                   at great distance he would also know that the wheel which directed the Moon's
                   nodes went bachmrd, with respect to the wheel which maintained the parallelism

                   of the Earth's axis, while the wheel'which directed the apogee motion went for

                   ward, in respect to it. Therefore, all that Ferguson would have to do in this
                   a
                        :

                                                ;

                                                                it
                                                JAMES FERGUSON.                                          147

I Imust be wrong, for no man on earth could do such a thing. Sir,

said I, be my head wrong or right, believe can not only do

I it,  but even be able to show the machine,                             iIf        may be admitted

     into this company, on this day se'ennight. The company who,

     with serious faces, were very attentive to all this, requested that

     would come.
       " So made the machine all of wood, and carried (under
my coat) to the same room on the day appointed and there was?                                   it
                                                                                       I, it ;      it
     the watchmaker. Well, old friend, says he, have you made your?I
                                                                       -- let us take in pieces.
     machine Yes Sir, said there
                                                I. I, I,     I it
                                                                     is
     Are these wheels fairly toothed and fairly pitched into the thick

     wheel Yes they are, said he.                            then turned round the great

     wheel, whose teeth took into those of the three thin wheels, and

     asked him whether the uppermost thin wheel did not turn the

     same way as the one did that turned                     it          whether the next wheel

                                                                 ;

     below did not turn the contrary way and the lowermost thin
                                                             ;

wheel no way at all They do, said he, but there                                                 is      fallacy
       it                                                                                          a
                                             ?
in the machine. Sir, said                                 do you detect the fallacy, and ex

pose to the company. He looked a long while at took                                             it,        I, it

several times in pieces, and put together again. Sir, said
                                                             it
       there any fallacy in the machine
                                                                     1

                                                                  I

                                                                                   is
is                                                                       confess, said he, see
                                                                                                        I

none. There none, said                                    How the devil                       then, said he,
       it

            is,
                  is

                    it is

                            is
                                a
                                     a
that the three thin wheels should be so differently affected                                               ?

the thing not only above all reason, but even contrary to                       is
all mechanical principles. For shame, Sir, said ask me not

how    for        simpler machine than any clock or watch

that you ever made or mended and you may be so easily non-
                                                          ;  if

plus'd by so simple thing in your own way of business, no        ;I
                                                                             ;
wonder you should be so about the Trinity but learn from this

not for the future to reckon every thing absurd and impossible
that you cannot comprehend. But now hope you remember

what you said at our last meeting here namely, that you
                                                                                                     if

could believe such a thing as this, you would then believe the

doctrine of the Trinity --you own the truth of the machine,

what do you say to your promise He humm'd and ha'd, and
                                                             ?

                                                                       it
asked me whether would let him take home to consider                                                       it.
                  I

                            a
matter was to get one thick wheel to drive the parallelism, nodes, and apogee
wheels, and this again with fixed central wheel of same number of teeth to give
motion to the thick wheel, and consequently, to the other three, by being car
ried round it, in the way shown by the machine.
148 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

I told him he might, but desired he would bring it to me to

morrow morning. He promised he would, and did so ; but gave

it me with some hearty curses, telling me he saw it was true,

but did not understand and wanted me to explain to him,
   I                                                                        it
                 I                                                              it

                                     it,

                                 it
which refused.                kept for six years without finding any

persou who could explain the principles on which acted, and

then put the Sun and Earth, with the ecliptic and Moon's orbit,

it,
       a

              it

                      it I

                                                   a
to seeing would then be kind of orrery, and published

the description, which send you, in order to save myself the

trouble of explaining         any longer. As                                now finished,
                                                                    it

                                                                         is
                                                                                                   it

makes  good orrery for showing the causes of the different

seasons, and the times of eclioses, &c.1M

                       Reverend Sir,                                humble servant,
                            Your most obliged,                         James Ferguson."

4No. in Bolt Court, Fleet Street,

    London, April IQth, 1776.

   Simple Lunar Wheel-Work. -- The annexed drawings are3            a
                                                                           is 8
taken from one of Ferguson's old MS. papers, of date 1750.it,
Although the wheels and pinions in this very simple train do                       a
not produce an accurate synodic period of the Moon, they are
perhaps sufficiently accurate for all common purposes. Accord                                         ;
ing to Ferguson's paper, he used this train for one of his orreries,                                           4,
as also for turning round on its axis, ball half black, half white,
                                                                                                        is
which exhibited the Moon's phases. It was on this train that                                                  is is

the celebrated Mudge operated, through the medium of an in

genious but complicated arrangement of wheels and endless
screws, which he added to thereby causing a period of 29 days
12 hours 44 minutes seconds 12 thirds.

   In the figures annexed, the pinion of leaves, marked A,
the prime mover, and must turn once round in 24 hours, and
drive a wheel of 42 teeth, on the centre of which there made

fast a pinion of leaves, which drives round wheel of 45 teeth
in 29 days 12 hours 45 minutes exactly, a period too slow by
   It

        is
             it

                         8
                          if
166 not known the original of this letter in existence there are, how
ever, one or two conies still extant, and in Ferguson's autograph, -- one of which
in the possession ol our friend, Mr. Robert Sim, at                 Keith,
has inserted in the Banffshire Journal, No. IX.,                    in his  a"ndWwalek  observe             that   he
                                                                                                           Keith    to
                                                                                         from
5ll0otohfia"nTahye."HoFrorolomgicsaolmeJouorthnearl,c"opLy,ontdhoen,letDteecrewmabserinse1r8t5e8d. in No.  pp. 49 and
                 JAMES FERGUSON.                        149

nearly 57 seconds ; an error which would amount to about a day

in 120 years.             >

Ferguson appears through life to have been satisfied with this

imperfect lunation-train, with its monthly error of 57 seconds ;

we find or some modification of the root from which the train
is
         : is    Ferguson's Simple Lunation-Train.

            it,derived, in all his orreries and other astronomical machinery;

this surprising, when a more accurate period could be ob

tained, and that too with as simple a train as that one he bad

adopted. Ferguson not having tried to obtain more accurate

                 is
                          is

                                              is,
numbers for his lunation machinery,                we think, a proof that

the calculation of wheel-trains, by the process of continuous

fractions, was unknown to him. We have shown in note 173,

to which the reader referred, a train more accurate. The

calculation of the train     derived from the fraction -,ggn.
If 64 24 :: 1890 = 29 days 12 hours 45 minutes, and 8x8 the
pinion leaves = 64, and 42x45, the wheel teeth = 1890.
   According to our memoranda, " Ferguson, early in the year

1750, commenced to make great many models, --of levers,
                             a

                                     It

                                               is
wedges, inclined-planes, the wheel and axle, pumps, carts,

corn-mills, &c," for the illustration of the extended course of

lectures he had determined on.                     very likely that these
150 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

models are those which he afterwards described in his " Lectures
on Select Subjects in Mechanics," &c.

   The Cometarium. --From the same source we find that

Ferguson, " about the same period, made a very neat astrono-

Fig. 1.          Fig. 2.
          Fit.I         IK I

Coiueturium.

mical machine, called a Cometarium, similar to the one then

lately invented by Dr. Desaguliers." Ferguson gives an en

graving and description of this machine in his Astronomy, which

we here transcribe. " The Cometarium. --This curious machine

shows the motion of a comet or eccentric body moving round

the Sun, describing equal areas in equal times, and may be so

contrived as to show such a motion for any degree of eccentri
/city. It was invented by the late Dr. Desaguliers.167
   The dark elliptical groove round the letters a, b, c, d, e,  g,
Yh, i, k, l, m, is the orbit of the comet ; this comet is carried

round in the groove, according to the order of the letters, by

   W Dr. Desaguliers, an eminent lecturer on Natural and Experimental Philo

sophy in London, between the years 1718 and 1744. He is the author of
Mechanics, 1vol., Plates. London, 1719; "Lectures on Experimental Philo
sophy," 2 vols., Plates. London, 1734. He died in 1744, aged 61 (the year
after Ferguson's arrival in London). We have in our possession an ancient small
circular horologe or clock which belonged to Dr. D. ; after his death, it came into
the possession of Dr. Franklin in 1757; of Mr. Ferguson in 1766; of Kenneth
M'Culloch in 1774; and of G. W., as shown on the inside of the brass lid on the
back of it.
                        JAMES FERGUSON.                 151

the wire W fixed in the Sun S, and slides on the wire as it

approaches nearer to, or recedes farther from the Sun, being

nearest of all in the perihelion a, and farthest in the aphelion

g. The areas a S b, bSc, cSd, &c., or contents of these several
triangles, are all equal ; and in every turn of the winch N, the

/comet Y is carried over one of these areas ; consequently, in as

much time as it moves from to g, or from g to h, it moves from
m to a, or from a to 6; and so of the rest, being quickest of all

at a and slowest at g.

Thus, the comet's velocity in its orbit continually decreases

from the perihelion a to the aphelion g, and increases in the

same proportion from g to a.

   The elliptic orbit is divided into 12 equal parts or signs, with

their respective degrees, and so is the circle no p qr 8 tn,

which represents a great circle in the heavens, and to

fwhich the comet's motion is referred by a small knob on the

point of the wire W. Whilst the comet moves from to g in
its orbit, it appears to move only about five degrees in this

circle, as is shown by the small knob on the end of the wire W ;

but in as short time as the comet moves from m to a, or from

a to b, and it appears to describe the large space t n or no in

the heavens, either of which spaces contains 120 degrees or four

signs. Were the eccentricity of its orbit greater, the greater

ABCDEFGHIKLMAstill would be the difference of its motion, and vice versa.
                                                     is a circular orbit for showing

the equable motion of a body round the Sun S, describing equal

areas A S B, BSC, &c., in equal times with those of the body
Y in its elliptical orbit, above mentioned, but with this differ
ence, that the circular motion describes the equal arcs A B, B C,

&c, in the same equal times that the elliptical motion describes

the unequal arcs a b, b c, &c.

  YNow, suppose the two bodies and I to start from the points
a and A at the same moment of time, and each having gone

round its respective orbit, to arrive at these points again at the

same instant, the body Y will be forwarder in its orbit than the
body I all the way from a to g, and from A to G ; but I will
be forwarder than Y through all the other half of the orbit, and
the difference is equal to the equation of the body Y in its

orbit. At the points a, A, and g, G, that
                              ;                         in the perihelion

                                                   is,
and aphelion, they will be equal and then the equation van
152 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

ishes. This shows why the equation of a body moving in an

elliptic orbit, is added to the mean or supposed circular motion

from the perihelion to the aphelion, and subtracted from the

aphelion to the perihelion, in bodies moving round the Sun, or

from the perigee to the apogee, and from the apogee to the

perigee in the Moon's motion round the Earth.
   This motion is performed in the following manner by the

machine :--A B C is a wooden bar (in the box containing the
wheel-work) Fig. 2, above which are the wheels D and E ; and
below it the elliptic plates F F and G G, each plate being fixed
on an axis in one of its focuses, at E and K ; and the wheel E
is fixed on the same axis with the plate F F. These plates

have grooves round their edges precisely of equal diameters to

one another, and in these grooves is the cat-gut string g g, g g,
crossing between the plates at h. On H, the axis of the handle

or winch N (Fig. 1), is an endless screw, as shown in Fig. 2,

working in the wheels D and E, whose numbers of teeth

being equal, and should be equal to the number of lines a S,

b S, c S, &c., in Fig. 1, they turn round their axes in equal times

to one another, and to the motion of the elliptic plates ; for, the

wheels D and E having equal numbers of teeth, the plate F F

being fixed on the same axis with the wheel E, and the plate

F F turning the equally big plate G G by a cat-gut string round

them both, they must all go round their axes in as many turns

of the handle N as either of the wheels has teeth.

  It is easy to see, that the end h of the elliptic plate F F, being
farther from its axis E than the opposite end i must describe
                                             ;
                                                      ;

                                                        is,
                                                          i,
                                                                             it
a circle so much the larger in proportion and therefore move

through so much more space in the same time and for that rea

son, the end moves so much faster than the end although
                h

                      F

                            F,
goes no sooner round the centre E. But then the quick moving
                                leads about the short end K of the plate
end of the plate
G                                            h
   G
                                                    i
         h,with the same velocity and the slow moving end of the
                                ;
FFplate
                                         B,
             coming half round as to must then lead the long end
   of the plate GG, as slowly about, so that the elliptical plate
k                                            G

                                                                    F
                                                                       F
and its axis move uniformly and equally quick in every part
                E

                        ;
of its revolution but the elliptical plate G, together with its

axis K, must move very unequally in different parts of its

revolution the difference being always inversely, as the dis
             ;

tance of any point of the circumference of   G       from its axis
                                                 G,
                                          JAMES FERGUSON.                                               153

at K; or in other words, to instance two points, if the distance K k
be four, five, or six times as great as the distance K h, the point

h will move in that position four, five, or six times as fast as the

point k does, when the plate G G has gone half round ; and so
on for any other eccentricity or difference of the distances K k
Kand          The tooth i, on the plate F F, falls in between the
          h.

two teeth at k, on the plate G G, by which means the revolu

tion of the latter is so adjusted to that of the former, that they

can never vary from one another.

On the top of the axis of the equally-moving wheel D, in Fig.

1, is the Sun S in Fig. 2 ; which Sun, by the wire Z fixed to                                           G 2,
carries the ball round the circle A                                                                         G, is it,
          is                                                                   B     D, &c. with an equable
            S                                                                     C

motion, according to the order of the letters and on the top ofI
the axis K, of the unequally-moving ellipsis                                         ;
                                      1,                                                       in Fig.
                                                                                         G
                                                                                            G

the Sun in Fig. carrying the ball unequably round in the                       Y

elliptical groove abed, &c. N.B. -- This elliptical groove must

be precisely equal and similar to the verge of the plate

which also equal to that of F.                   F

   In this manner, machines may be made to show the true

motions of the Moon about the Earth, or of any planet about

the Sun, by making the elliptical plates of the same eccentricities,

in proportion to the radius, as the orbits of the planets arc,

whose motions they represent and so, their different equations
                                                 ;

                                                                                         a
in different parts of their orbits may be made plain to sight,

and clearer ideas of these motions and equations acquired in

half an hour than could be gained from reading half day about

such motions and equations." (Ferguson's Astronomy, 3d Edit.

4to. London, 1764, pp. 288-- 291).16s
   We have no other notes regarding Ferguson for 1750, but

may remark that this year closed upon him with the death of

his earliest London friend and benefactor, the Right Honour

able Sir Stephen Poyntz, who died on 17th December, 1750

(understood to have died in the 64th year of his age). Fergu

son, in his Memoir, informs us that the death of this amiable
gentleman was to him the source of " inexpressible grief." (See

note 74.)
·
              a

                                                                            i
6s Cometariums constructed on this plan, and sufficiently large for the lecture
                 of about i)2                      when made                   wtoith£4e. c--ceInntrnicotewh6e6elws e(inexsptereasds  of
room at cost     gut strings),            10s.;  price may rise                                                                        a
pulleys and cat                           the

similar opinion aa to the utility of machinery for the illustration of astronomical

motions.

                                                 U
154 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

                                                     1751.

   Perpetual Pocket Almanac, 1751. -- In the spring of the
year 1751, Ferguson invented and published a curious " Per-
petwal Pocket Ahnanae," (long out of print, and now very
scarce). He sent one of them in a present to his early friend,

Mr. Rose of Geddes, enclosed in an interesting letter, of which

the following is a copy. It is the earliest of Ferguson's letters

known to be in existence ; besides referring to this Almanac, it

shows that his time was then taken up with his business as a lim

ner; in delivering lectures on his favourite science of Astronomy;

in making various mechanical models for the illustration of his

lectures ; and that his residence was in Margaret Street, Caven

dish Square.

                                                          " Margaret Street, Cavendish Square,
                                                                   London, June 1st, 1751.

     " Sik, -- Be pleased herewith to accept of one of my Perpetual Pocket
Almanacs, newly published. It will lie in your pocket-book, and with

a pin you may easily shift the month and Moon-plates, as directed, pro

vided you hold the instrument edgeways betwixt your thumb and three

last Angers, keeping your fore-finger's point lightly at the back, against

the openings through which the said plates are shifted. This way of hold
Iing keeps it flat, and does not pinch the plates.
                                                                 am sorry that the table

of semi-diurnal arcs, for showing the rising and setting of the Sun and

Moon, will not answer in your latitude ; but all the rest is universal, and

the circles for showing the places of the Sun and Moon are adapted to

the new style, as that is so soon to take place.

    " I am still going on in the old way of drawing, and lecturing upon

my astronomical machines, of which I've now got a good collection, and
have lately finished two working models of water-mills, in one of which,
the water-wheel moves a train for turning two mill-stones, and for sifting

the flour as it is ground.169 The other is of a mill to go by water, with
out ever a wheel or trundle, and yet it will grind as well as any, and
need no repairs until the water rots out the few simple materials which

compose the machine.170

   169 This   appears to be        the  hsiasme"  sort of  mill  Tmraecntsti,o"nevdizb. y"  Ferguson                                         in  the list
he gives of   his apparatus        in             Tables   and                              A model                                          of  a water

mill for  winnowing     a"ndTabglerisndainngd     corn, drawing up the sades,               and    boulting                                      the
flour."   (Ferguson's                             Tracts." London, 1767, p.                 320).
                                               ltrilsiaettr,heevirisz.noeb"istAhcuermrewolydheeledleofnifnoeDrdr,t.ruBanapdprlkeeea. rrs"'s
"        The  second     mill, although                                                                                                       also to be
   Barker's             noticed in same        1767, p. 320; also, see a figure and                                                           water mill
              mill,"               which mill                                                                                                (Ferguson's
                        corn), in   London,                                                                                                  description
("foTrabglersindainngd  Tracts."
of this mill in the supplement to Ferguson's "Lectures on Select Subjects in

Mechanics.")
         JAMES FERGUSON.                                155

    I" should be exceedingly glad to hear from you, how you and your
worthy lady and family are, to all of whom, my wife and I offer sincerely
Iour best wishes; and am, with great regard,171

                                   Sir,  Your most humble servant,
" To Hugh aRtosNeaiorfnG. e"ddes, Esq.,                          James Ferguson."

Perpetual Almanack. -Invented by James Ferguson, 1751.

Fig. 1.                                  Fig. 2.

    " The Perpetual Pocket Almanac " here referred to (and shown
in Fig. 1 and Fig. 2 above), consists of two cards fully three
inches square, held together by being stitched round the edges
of the four sides with stout white silk thread, thus allowing
space enough between them for the working of two moveable
coucentric paper circles, on the largest of which are the days of
the month, seen through the cut out open arc at top (see Fig.
1) ; on the smaller circle are the days of the Moon's age, seen
through the lower open arc. These two circles being concentric,
move on a strong thread as their axis, fixed in the centre of the

card. The two open arcs have a bridge-piece between them,
left in cutting out the arcs, on which are, in capitals, the initial
letters of the days of the week. Underneath are the following

  171 This letter is extracted from " A Genealogical Deduction of the family of
Rose of Kilravock," printed for the Spalding Club, 1848. This is the earliest

written letter of Ferguson's that we have seen.
156 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

rules or " Explanation " for working both sides of the Almanac-

card, which we insert below, as there is not space enough for
them in our reduced engraving. ,

                                  " EXPLANATION."

Fig. 1. Shift towards the left hand all that is visible of the above plates, every
           Sunday, and they will show the day of the month, and age of the Moon,
             every day of the week.

Fig. 2. On the other side, set the Sun's index to the day of the month, and it
           will cut his place in the ecliptic in the circle marked A (on the Moon's
             index), and half the time of his staying above the horizon in the circle B.
             Keeping the Sun's index there, set the Moon's index to the day of her
           age in the circle C, and it will cut the time of her coming to the meridian
             in the circle D, and the hours and minutes of her semi-diurnal arc in the
             circle B, which arc, subtracted from the time of the Moon's commg to
             the meridian, gives the time of her rising ; and added thereto, gives the
             time of her setting, agreeable to her mean motion.

J. Fkhouson, inv.                                                                B. Cole, sculp.

   On the other side of the card (Fig. 2) are a series of circles
not moveable), described on the card, having in them the

names of the month, days, &c. ; the names of the signs of the

ecliptic, with its degrees ; and a circle of the Sun's semi-dura

tion above the horizon. Above, are two small paper concentric

circles, moveable on the same thread as the circles in Fig. 1 ;

the lowermost one, or that next the card, has on it the twenty-

four hours of the day (divided into half hours and quarters),

and round    its       outer edge   are the   29£    days of the Moon's                           age.
This circle  has        an index   marked    " The    Sun's Index " and                            ex

tends over the whole of the fixed circles on the card ; and im

mediately above this paper circle, and working on the same

centre, is a smaller one, having on it some of the circles of the
sphere, and has an index marked " Moon's Index," also extend

ing over the whole of the fixed circles on the card. . On this
index are the letters A, B, C, D, which serve as guides to the

several circles under them (see Fig.                                       The names, figures,
                                  2
                                                                      2).
and divisions on Fig. are not given in our engraving, being

too numerous for insertion.175

   Lunar Motion. -- About same period, Ferguson contrived
"An easy way of showing the phases of the Moon in clock."
                                                                                          a
A  1"    cLoLpy.Do.f,  this very  scarce Almanac inis the possession         of  Principal   it,Forbes,
D.C.L.,                 &c., St.  Andrews, to whose  kindness, for         the   lonn of         we are

much indebted.
                         JAMES FERGUSON.                                                  157

" Let a wheel of 16 teeth be fixed on the axis of a wheel of 15,

and th# wheel of 16 turn a wheel of 63, on whose axis, let a ball,
half black, half white, be fixed, and project half way out through
a round hole in the dial-plate.

   Then if the wheel of 15 teeth be always moved one tooth in
12 hours, the ball will be turned round in 29 days 12 hours 45

minutes, and show all the varied phases of the Moon." (See
Ferguson's "Tables and Tracts." London, 1767, pp. 127, 128.)
The description we have just quoted is so very simple that it
can scarcely be misunderstood ; and Ferguson appears to have

                    Ferguson's Simple Lunation-Work.

had the same idea ofis          as he has no drawing to illustrate the
                        it,
description. We, however, shall annex drawing of           is it,       in order
                                                                        obvious
that the description may be better understood. It
                                          is
                                             aa
that the Moon, in this wheel-work arrangement, moves by daily
                                                  simple one -- continu
jerks or starts, although its motion                       a

ous gradual motion desirable, and ought to be preferred.178

173 We allude to a similar motion at note 151, 4c. The present lunar wheel-
work evidently derived from the same root, viz.
                                                  from  1th8e90s-oMlid=y54Jo7"-;24f,oror    -=-4
= 16 for one of the wheels Ferguson here adopts,   and                                    deci
=mally, 472 5-^-74 days--is is                                                          46
       a                                                                                       it,
                    7           63 for the numher of teeth in the wheel which
                       5

=carries the Moon

therefore moving
          and as wheel       15 turns round in days, witha 16 pinned to
          round also         in duys, we have 63-=-1674
          ;                     it,                           9375 X 7'5 =
                                   74                   In note 132 we giveit
29 58125 d., or 29d. 12h. 45m.; see notes 132--151.it
                                                                     3
wheel-work of our own for gradual continuous motion (without jerks or starts),
                      a

which also very simple in its arrangement, and easy to be made, besides being
about 31 seconds each lunation nearer the true motion than that given above.
We made model of about 40 years ago, and have found to answer well, and
and to be accurate. Although we have given sketch of the same train in
note 132, we shall here repeat       with drawing, to show its application.
                                       a
158 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   Hygroscope. -- In the year 1751, Ferguson invented and

made a " New Hygroscope," which was noticed in many«of the
newspapers and magazines of the time. The following descrip-

                  An Improved Hygroscope.

: it,tion of as also the drawing, by Ferguson,                                                                   is  taken from the
       A
          AUniversal Magazine for October 1751, -- viz.

Description --    represents part of the front frame of the clock                                                                   bridge of
brass secured to the front frame by two steel screws at and                                                          ;c ;
                                                                                                                            B
                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                  c                                                  within this    is
                                                                      a
placed the lunar wheels, thus: -- pinion of leaves make rotation on its axis
                  a
                                        9

                                  Lunar Motion.

in 24 h., and drives wheel of 46 teeth having pinion of leaves, which drives
a                                                                                                                half white,
                                 d.
                                                                                                                 46 X52 =
                                      a
                                                                 d.

                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                9
                                         ball  h=alf81b.laacnkd,                                                              23re9p2re=senting
jfj,,wheel of 52 once round (along with the
the Moon) in  29  12 h. 44 m. 26s., for  9x9
and 2392-^81      29 530864 = 29                                                                                 The number
              =                   12 h.  44 m. 26-f^y s.                                                                            as

stated at note 132, being derived from   the addition of                                                         the three solids TJfr +
JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                    159

" There have been several hygroscopes invented by different

authors for determining the true state of the atmosphere ; but

that recommended by the great Mr. Boyle, of weighing a piece

of sponge in a pair of accurate scales, seems to come nearest to

the truth. But the difficulty and time requisite to adjust the

weights, and discover the true state of the air, render it very

tedious and troublesome. Another method, therefore, is want

ing, whereby we may perceive, at all seasons, by inspection only,

the most minute alterations with respect to moisture or dryness,

and this may be performed by the hygroscope represented in

the annexed figure.

  " A represents a thin piece of sponge, so cut, as to contain as

large a surface as possible. This is fastened by a fine silk thread

to the beam B, and is exactly balanced by another thread of

silk at D, strung with the smallest lead shot at equal distances,

and so adjusted as to cause the index to point at G, the middle
of the graduated arc F, G, H, when the air is in a middle state

Ibetween the greatest moisture and the greatest dryness.

represents a small table or shelf for that part of the shot which

is not suspended to rest on.
   " By this instrument, the most minute changes in the atmo

sphere, with regard to moisture and dryness, may be discovered

by inspection only, as is abundantly evident from the figure."

--(ViAdespHoningteo,n'wsellUnsoivaekresdal    Magazine,    Vol. 9th,    p. 159).   (Note,
                                            in a solution   of tartar,  suspended   when

quite dry, has been recommended).                          A contributor to the Lon

don Mechanics' Magazine, Vol. 1st, p. 360, introduces, appa

rently as new, a hygrometer exactly the above ! Ferguson's

hygroscope was published seventy-two years before the London

Mechanics' Magazine was heard of.

   A Supplement to the Answer to Ferguson's Essay. --

The same author who, in 1748, published the anonymous pam
phlet, entitled " An Answer to Mr. Ferguson's Essay upon the
Moon's turning round its own Axis," again went to press in

1751, with a second anonymous pamphlet, entitled "A Supple

ment to the Answer to Mr. Ferguson's Essay on the Moon's

turning round its own Axis. Printed for J. Roberts at the
Oxford Arms, in Warwick Lane, MDCCLI," (an octavo of 24

pp. and 2 copperplates).
160 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

    The lunar-rotation dispute, which had raged so fiercely
for some years before the appearance of this Supplement,
had now subsided into a calm, and ceased to be referred

to, --in time, as well as in matter, this publication was out of

place.

   Why this author (Mr. Grove) should twice attack Ferguson,
masked, is now not known ; it has been suggested " that he

probably stood in fear of the newspaper and magazine critics of

his day, thinking it possible they might give to his local habita
tion and his name, rotation on an awkward axis."

The London newspapers and magazines of 1751 have been

examined, but without finding even allusion made to this

Supplement ; hence it may be inferred that neither Ferguson

nor any of the other writers on the subject of lunar rotation

took any notice of it.

   In taking leave of this anonymous writer we may add,

that although many are of opinion that Ferguson went to

Richmond to see him, immediately after the publication of

his first anonymous pamphlet in 1748 (see page 126), yet,
nevertheless, we think it as probable that Ferguson's visit to

Mr. Grove at Richmond would be in 1751, after the publica

Ition of the Supplement ; because, it begins by saying --" It is

now above two years since published an Answer to Mr.
I fFerguson's Essay upon the Moon's turning round on an
Axis within her.  expected not any reply rom him, as 1

concluded, that what he had ventured abroad, to the public, he

had set forth what he took to be the strength of his cause, and
had tliereupon, to his entire satisfaction, received the approba

tion of those of h is own opinion," &c. We scarcely think that
such remarks as these would have been used had Ferguson's

visit to him been before they were written. It is indeed pro

bable that, had Ferguson gone to Richmond shortly after the

publication of the " Answer" in 1748, there would have been
no Supplement to it in 1751.

   Familiar Idea of the distances, &c., of the Planets. --

According to an old memorandum, it was in the year 1751 that
Ferguson first promulgated his familiar illustration of the dis
tances and magnitudes of the Sun and Planets ; as this " familiar
illustration " has often been quoted, and too often without ac
JAMES FERGUSON.  1C1

knowledging the source from whence it was derived, we give it
in Ferguson's own words, --

   "The dome of St. Paul's is 145 feet in diameter. Sup
pose a globe of this size to represent the Sun ; then a globe
of 9,70 inches will represent Mercury; one of 17-I90 inches,
Venus ; one of 18 inches, the Earth ; one of 5 inches diameter,
the Moon (whose distance from the Earth is 240,000 miles) ;
one of 10 inches, Mars; one of 15 feet, Jupiter; and one of 11 £
feet, Saturn, with his ring four feet broad, and at the same dis
tance from his body all round.

   " In this proportion, suppose the Sun to be at St. Paul's ; then

JMercury might be at the Tower of London ; Venus at St. James's

palace ; the Earth at Marybone ; Mars at Kensington ; upiter
at Hampton Court ; and Saturn at Cliefden, all moving round
the cupola of St. Paul's as their common centre." 174 (Fergu
 son's " Tables and Tracts," 1st Edit., pp. 153, 154).

   Satellite Machine. -- About this period (1751), Ferguson

informs us that he constructed a machine "to represent the
 motions of Jupiter's satellites round Jupiter, in a clock, and
show the times of their eclipses in Jupiter's shadow." In his
 " Tables and Tracts," he describes this machine as follows :--

    " On four hollow arbors, let there be four bent wires of dif

 ferent lengths, to carry the satellites round Jupiter, as the
 arbors are turned round within one another ; and let Jupiter be
 fixed on the top of a solid axis or spindle, on which all the arbors
 are turned round ; the wires being so bent, as that the satellites,
 on their tops, may be of the same height with Jupiter's ball.
 The diameters of the satellites should not be above a sixth or

 seventh part of the diameter of Jupiter, and to be at their pro
 per distances from him ; the distance of the nearest satellite
 should be of semi-diameters of Jupiter distant from his centre;
 the second satellite 9 semi-diameters of Jupiter distant from his

   174 Ferguson made this calculation when the adopted distance of the Sun
from the Earth was taken at 81,000,000 of miles. The results of calculations
arising out of the transits of Venus over the Sun's disc in the years 1761 and

1769, make this distance fully Jth more, or 95,000,000 miles in round numbers

for the distance of the Sun from the Earth. (See also note 113). Since Fer
guson's time, the planets Uranus, Vesta, Juno, Ceres, Pallas, and Neptune have
been discovered, besides, upwards of 70 asteroids, which would require a new
calculation to make them all correspond to modern measures of planetary dis
tances ; this we shall leave as a task for the curious reader.

                                                        X
162 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

centre ; the third 14 J semi-diameters ; and the fourth 25 J of his

semi-diameters from his centre.
   Let four wheels of different sizes, and different numbers of

teeth, be fixed upon the lower end of the above-mentioned
arbors, in a conical manner ; the wheel on the smallest arbor,

                    Ferguson's Satellite Machine.-- Section of the Wheel-Work.

that carries the first satellite, having 22 teeth ; the wheel on the
next arbor that carries the second satellite, 33 teeth ; the next
bigger wheel on the arbor that carries the third satellite, 43
teeth ; and the largest wheel of all, on the arbor that carries the
fourth or outermost satellite, 67 ; the biggest wheel being the
uppermost, and the smallest the lowermost.

    These four wheels must be turned by other four, all fixed on a
solid axis, in an inverted conical manner, with respect to the
former wheels on the hollow arbors ; and then, all the four on
the solid axis will be turned round in one and the same time.

    The smallest wheel (or uppermost one) on this axis must
have 28 teeth, and turn the wheel of 67 teeth, which carries
 the fourth satellite.

    The next wheel on the axis must have 42 teeth, and turn the
 wheel of 43 teeth which carries the third satellite.

    The next bigger wheel below on the axis, must have 65 teeth,
                         JAMES FERGUSON.                                              163

and turn the wheel of 33 teeth, which carries the second satel

lite; and

The lowermost, and biggest wheel on the axis, must have 87

teeth, and turn the wheel of 22, which carries the first satellite.

Then,

  If the clock turns the solid axis with all its wheels round in

7 days, the first satellite will be carried round Jupiter in 1 day

18 hours 28 minutes 57 seconds ; the second satellite in 3 days

13 hours 17 minutes 46 seconds; the third in 7 days 3 hours 59

minutes 54 seconds ; and the fourth satellite in l6 days 18 hours

0 minutes 0 seconds ; which agrees so nearly with their revolu

tions in the heavens, as not to differ sensibly, in a long time,
from them.

   And then, if a piece of black wood be turned, a little conical
in its shape, having its thickest end as broad as the diameter

of Jupiter is long, and be made hollow to fix on the back of
Jupiter, and have notches cut in it for the satellites to pass
through, it will represent Jupiter's shadow ; and when the
satellites are in the notches, it will show them to be eclipsed.

The times of the immersions of the satellites of Jupiter into

his shadow, or of their emersions from
a                                                                       may be had from
                  ;

                it
                                             if

                                                                   it,
White Epbemeris every year; and                                       the satellites are

once put just entering the notches for the immersions,

or just leaving        for the emersions at the proper times

by the clock they will keep right to the times thereof

for more than a year afterward, without needing any new ad
justment. And in order that they may be so set, without

affecting the wheels that move them, their wires should be fixed

into round collars which go moderately tight on the tops of the

four hollow arbors, so as they may be carried about Jupiter by

the tightness of the collars, and yet at any time may be moved
                      hand." (See Ferguson's " Tables and Tracts."
and set right  by
                   is
Lond., 1767, pp. 154--159).

The following a tabular view of the wheel-work and periods

produced   by  this satellite machine, and a column showing the
true revolutions -- 175
               :

17S We have compiled the above table from the satellite wheel-work. The last
column, entitled "True periods in the Heavens,"  taken from MS. table by
                             a
                                                    is
                                                                                   a
Ferguson, in our possession. Such satellite, with brass wheels, may be pur
chased for about £5.
164 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

satoilltes Wheel-work.  Periods produced by the Wheel-work      ' Trne          Ferguson's
                                                                           Periods in the Heavens.-
   1st SI 'if 7 days        Id. 18 h. 28 m. 46 s.
                             3d. 13 h. 17 m. 32 30 s.           1 d. 18 h. 28 pi. 36 s.
 ii2d 'A do.                                                    3d. 13 h. 17m. 54s.
                               7 d. 4 h. 0 m. 0 s.              7 d. 3 h. 59 m. 86 s.
    3d do.                    16 d. 18 h. 0 m. 0s.              16 d. 18 h. 5 m. 6 s.

  if4th do.

It is to be observed that Ferguson makes of 7 days=l

day 18 hours 28 minutes 46 seconds ; whereas 87 :7 d. : : 22 pro

duces 1 day 18 hours 28 minutes 58 seconds nearly; also, he
             of 7 days = 3 days 13 hours 17 minutes 46 seconds;
makes

but 65:7:: 33 = 3 days 13 hours 17 minutes 32 3 seconds;

lastly ; 4 1 of 7 days = 7 days 3 hours 59 minutes 54 seconds ;

but 42 : 7 d. : : 43 produces 7 days 4 hours exactly.
   Ferguson adds that " all the numbers of teeth in the wheels

are here copied from Mr. Roemer's satellite instrument, except

those for the second satellite, where Mr. Roemer has a wheel of

63 teeth turning a wheel of 32. instead of which, 1 make a

wheel of 65 turn a wheel of 33, which is much nearer the

truth." 17,i Ferguson concludes his description by informing us

that

176 \iy referring to the Inst column of the above satellite table, -- which, as
          m"enttriuoenedp,eriiosd  from a                table  by Ferguson, it   will be seen
i-lready                            in the  manuscript  of the  second satellite  of Jupiter, is
that the                                     heavens,"

set down at 3 d. 13 h. 17 m. 54 s. ; and hence, Ferguson's wheels of J$ was a much
fjnearer approach to the true period than Roemer's wheels of § j. Roemer's wheels

of |} produce a period of 3d. 13 h. 20 m., while Ferguson's wheels of produce
a period of 3d. 13h. 17m. 82" 80s., being a period within 21 s. of the true period,
as then understood. Sir John Herschell in his Astronomy gives 3d. 13 h. 14m.
thus throwing Ferguson's wheel-work period about H^j minutes too slow. If Sir
J|,John's period of 3d. 13 h. 14m. be adopted, then, by continuous fractions, we
lind that  it we make the wheels for the second                 satellite  his  it will  pr\oieducmeaya
period of  3 d. 13 h. 13 m. 2"6 s., which is within             57 s. of        period.

here note that we once had in 01u possession Ferguson's wheel of 33 which
carried the second satellite in his machine ; it is of boxwood, and the teeth
beautifully cut into it. This wheel is now among the Ferguson relics in the

fj,Museum at Ranff.
Wheels       used for the 1st satellite, produce a period too tioie by ahout 22

\\seconds, liy the process of continuous fractions, applied to the period of the 1st
satellite, from a prime mover      of       7 days, we   find that the fraction   91     produces a
period within 54 seconds of        the       true time,  -- thus, let a wheel of         teeth turn

round in 7 days, and be made to drive a wheel of 23 teeth, this wheel of 23 teeth

will turn once round on its axis in Id. 18 h. 28 m. 41 '5 s. ; the true period being
Id. 18 h. 28 m. 36 s.
   There is a rude woodeut figure, and also a full description of Roemer's satellite

machine, in "Harris's Lexicon Teciinicum," a work which Ferguson says in

his Life, that he perused while he was on a visit to Squire Baird at Auchmedden,
in 1733 ^ it is probable that Ferguson then copied the woodeut figure and the de
scription. (Sec Harris's Lexicon Techuicum. London, 1725 ; article "Satellite

Machines.")
                                    JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                                       165

  I"About 16 years ago,177 made one of these instruments to

be turned with a winch by hand. It had a dial-plate divided

into the months and days of the year, within which was a circle
divided into twice twelve hours. On this plate there were two
indexes, one of which was moved round over all the 365 days
of the annual circle in 365 turns of the winch ; and the other

index was moved round over all the 24 hours in one turn

Iof the winch, by which means could, in a very short time, show

at what times of the day the satellites would be eclipsed through
out the whole year ; 17s and, after having the above numbers for

177 Ferguson here mentions that he made his satellite machine " about 16 years
            16 years before the year 1767, when his "Tables and Tracts,"
ago," thatit

                  is,
                                  it,

                                          is
                                                       a
(from which this extract taken), were published, and consequently refers to the

year 1751.                          three satellite machines, -- the one just described                                                            was the
    17s Ferguson made
first he made, simple in its construction, and being copied from Roemer's instru
ment, would, like                   have prime mover of days. Shortly after
                                                                       a77                                                                         it         was
                                                                                                                                                      it
finished, Ferguson discarded the prime mover of days, and added to one of
24 hours. We have in our possession (pasted on small piece of mahogany) a
short   daensdcroipf twiohnich(inthMeSf.ollobywinFgergusonc)o,pys,h--owheingsayist,s  "arOranngtheemaexnits  in its altered
state,                                                                                                       of the handle
is 6 is
    a
                           7
                                   aa
                                                              a

                                                                 is
                                                                    a
an endless screw which turns a wheel of 12 teeth, on whose axis a pinion of
                                                                                                             is is
                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                             is
leaves, turning wheel of 16 teeth, which turns wheel of 42, on whose axis
                                                                                  a
                                                                                        is
pinion of leaves, turning wheel of 60 teeth, on whose axis                                                                                         pinion of

12 leaves, turning wheel of 73 teeth, on whose axis the annual index which
goes round the circle of months in 365 revolutions of the hour index, which on

the axis of the first wheel and pinion. The above-mentioned wheel of 42 teeth
turns a wheel of the same number, on whose axis three other wheels are fixed,

one of which has 87 teeth, the next above                              65, the next above which                                                               the
                                                                       is                                                                                 is

wheel 42, and the next, or uppermost,                                    a it                                                                      T--he

                                                                                                   a                                               view
                                                                       wheel of 28 teeth."                                                                several
ftxi"wheels                                                                                                                                                       x
&x,&xiita^ll
                                                                                                                                                               =
i*%Vb-
        a-nTadn,rdWpin1ai8oW3n9s60ian^nd5th02i4s94=p3a36r3t06-5^of8a0st6h4ebeftor=raei.n36a5rWeeextoaacbtnleyn;eaxrorransigsmeepdcltyiot,hnuasl ,         of the

wheels and pinions calculated and adopted by Ferguson for his new prime mover

of 24 hours, in order that          may be the more easily understood. Below our
                                    it
sketch of the wheel-work of Ferguson's satellite machine will be found very5
simple plan we adopted to accomplish the same motions --                                    ;

                                                                                                 aA

                                                                                                        is
                                                                                                           a

                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                          B
                                                                                                             long endless
screw, making revolution in 24 hours, which turns round small wheel of
D7
                    7
                              a

                                 a
teeth in days, which wheel drives the satellite machinery. The long endless
screw also drives small wheel of round in days, which has an endless screw
                                                                       5
                                                                               1
that drives wheel 73 round in 365 days, or in 365 turns of the endless screw.
By this simple arrangement we obtain movers of day (or 24 hours), of days,
                                                                                                                                                   7

and of 365 days.
166 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

the motions of the satellites, any cloekmaker may easily con
struct a machine of this sort, by which the times of the immer
sions and emersions of the satellites may be known before-hand,
in order to be prepared for observing them in the heavens."
(" Tables and Tracts." Lond., 1767, pp. 158, 159).

    We have no other memoranda of Ferguson for the year 1751,
excepting, that " he was occasionally occupied towards its close,
in delivering lectures on astronomy, and the rectification of the
Calendar."

                                                            1752.

   Ferguson's seeming application for some vacant situa
tion. --Early in the year 1752, his attention appears to have
been directed to some vacant situation or office in or about

   To adopt 7 days as the prime mover of the wheel-work in a satellite machine
is rather an inconvenient mover; a prime mover of 24 hours is preferable. We-
give the reader a tabular view and section of the wheel-work of a satellite machine
made in 1805 by the late Dr. VVm. Pearson, having a prime mover of 24 hours,
that its wheels and resulting periods may be compared with the Ferguson -Rocmer
machine just described.

Satellilcs  Wheels.       Periods by Wheels.              Dr. Pearson's
                                                   Trne Synodic Periods.
U1st of 24 h.        Id. 18 h. 27 m. 41s.
                                              1 d. 18 h. 28 m. 35-95 s.
 d Si do.            3d. 13 h. 20 m. 0s.      3d. 13 h. 17 m. 53-75s.
                     7 d. 4 h. 0 m. 0 s.
3d                   16d. 18 h. 0 m. 0 s.     7d. 3h. 59 m. 85 87 s.
                                              16 d. 18 h. 5m. 7-09 s.
4th lit do.

This sectional view of Dr. Pearson's satellite machine will be readily understood
from the description of Ferguson's machine. We may just note that wheels 39, 27,
18, and pinion 8, are all fixed on the same axis, and revolve with it in 24 hours,
which is the unit or prime mover. Wheel 39, turning round in 24 hours, drives
wheel 69 round in 1 d. 18 h. 27 m. 41 s. Wheel 27, turning round in 24 hours,
drives wheel 69 round in 3 d. 13 h. 20 m. Wheel 18, turning round in 24 hours,
drives wheel 129 round in 7 d. 4 h. ; and pinion 8, turning round in 24 hours,
drives wheel 134 round in 16 d. 18 h. It is somewhat remarkable that two of
the periods in this machine are precisely alike to those in Ferguson's, viz. the
periods of the 3d and 4th satellites.
                                JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                              167

London, and he became a candidate for it ; and as the matter

is nowhere afterwards mentioned, it is to be presumed that he

was one of probably a great many unsuccessful candidates.

All our endeavours to ascertain something about this vacant

office have proved fruitless.
   In reference to
   I:                           however,         the following letter from

                              it,

                                                                 9,

                                           it p. a

                                                         is
                                                                                               it

                                                                                        it

                                                                                                                      is
                                                                                                                             is
Martin Folkes, Esq., President of the Royal Society, to the Rev.

Mr. Birch, its Secretary, at the Royal Society's house in Crane

Court --

   " pray the favour of Mr. Birch that he will please to present this

recommendation at the meeting of the Society this afternoon, as                                                              my

humble request that any of the gentlemen present, to whom                      may not

be disagreeable, to promote the success of Mr. James Ferguson, who

very strongly recommended to me as gentleman of the greatest merit.

                       From the Society's most dutiful,

                                   humble servant,

   " Feby. 20th, 1752."                                                    M. Folkes."

Copied from the Birch collection of letters in the
   British Museum, No. 4308, Vol.
                                          282.

   During the first months of 1752, we find that " Ferguson was

still busy with his lectures on Astronomy, and on the rectifi

cation of the Calendar; and               would appear that he had

considerable success, principally owing, perhaps, to the curiosity

of the public being then aroused on the subject of the Calen

dar, and the proposal for striking off 11 days from the year

1752." 179

   178 'The rectification of the Calendar was effected on 3d September, 1752
                       is
                                               a

                                                                      1
                                                                                           it,

                                                                                                                          11
                                                                                                                                      ;
the 3d of September of this year was called the           4th, thus striking   off the      days
which had been in excess." We have before                                      for the  year of
                                                          us "An Almanac

our Lord 1752, and from the World's Creation 5754 years, by Tycho Wing,
Philomath." On looking into the September of this year, in we find the fol
lowing notice, which inserted in blank space between September 2d and 14th:

   " According  to an  Act  of               Sept. 1752.  the  24th  year  of  his Majesty's
                                Parliament passed in
   reign, and in the year of our Lord 1751, the old style ceases here, and the
   new style takes place and consequently, the next day, which in the old ac
                is
                             ;

                                            is
                                                                                  a

                                                                                                   :
                                                                                                     9,
                                                                                                                          a
   count would hare been the 3d, now to be called the 14th so that all the
   intermediate nominal days, from the 2d to the 14th, are omitted, or rather
   annihilated this year; and this month contains no more than 19 days."

   Although this not the proper place to enter on discussion of the Calendar,
   few remarks, however, may bo made to show the nature of the subject Fergu
a
son had to deal with. In A.d. 325, the vernal equinox occurred on March 21st.
About the year 1750, the vernal equinox occurred on March
                                                                               making dill'er-
168 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   The Lunabium. --About the beginning of the year 1752,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .

Ferguson invented a sort of Rotula, which he called " The

Lunarium." A few of these Lunariums are still to be found.
It consists of several concentric moveable card-discs, the largest

of which is about 15 inches in diameter, the smallest, 5J inches,

on which are engraven the 29 £ days of Moon's age ; the 24 hours
of the day ; circles full of dates for 6000 years before and after
the year 1800, &c. Within a space on the middle card-disc, we

find the following :--

        " A Lunarium, showing the Days of all the New and Full Moons,

        and the Moon's Age every day for 6000 years before or after any
        year in the 18th century, and the time of the Moon's Southing on
        each day of her Age. By .Tames Ferguson."

   This Lunarium has been long out of print and is now very
scarce. Our friend Mr. Robert Sim, in Keith, has a MS. copy
of one. We have the MS. middle card-disc of one, from which

the above note is extracted.

cuce of 11 days ; this was occasioned by estimating and using 365 d. 6 h. as the
length of the year, taking in the 6 hours every fourth year, as they in that time
amounted to 24 hours or 1 day. The true mean length of a year is 365 d. 5 h.
48 m. 52 s. , which, on being subtracted from 365 d. 6 h. , shows a difference of
11m. 8 s., that is, the year estimated at 365 d. 6 h. is too long by 11 m. 8 s.;
this excess, 11m. 8Is. x 4 -- 44 m. 32 s. that had been added to the Calendar every

four years since A.n. 325. About the year 1750, these 44 m. 32 s. added every
four years since A. n. 325, had amounted to 11 days very nearly; and hence it was
necessary to strike off these 11 days in order to restore the vernal equinox again
to 21 March. Had the year consisted of 365 d. 6 h. exactly, then, by taking up
these 6 hours every fourth year, and making a day of them, would have been
perfect, and engendered no error in any time to come ; the yearly excess of 11 m.
        amounts    to an entire day in about 129$ years.
8  s.    will be  seen from these remarks that the question

    It                                                                                          of  the  Calendar               is  simply

one of dealing with the 5 h. 48 m. 52 s. What part of a day is 5 h. 48 m. 52 s. ?
--By continuous fractions it is shown that the fractional equivalents for this
J5 b. 48 m. 52 s.                       3m36655^^Kfsf .d;daayytshsenr3e6d5utrc^yed;36n5o,w7f,=f,                              shown that
3651,            term   arc 365 days,                                                           is      has been
7                      too great by 11                                                                  a ; it.this gives       nearer ap
     a                                                                                                                        47 m. 35 s.,
                         the truth, as                                                                           d.365
           a is                                                                                                      5
              a                                                                                                           h.
proximation to
                                                                                                                             a
being period only m. 17 s. faster than the true period therefore, by adding
                       1

   entire days to the Calendar every 29 years, the error of day would not occur
in less period than 992 years. Suppose all the months every 29th year to have
31 days each, this would add these days to the Calendar, and no rectification
would be required for near 1009 years. 365^- would give period still nearer.a7
For full exposition of the Calendar, and how in future                                          it
                                                                                                     is a
                                                                                                                           s
a                                                                                                        to be dealt with by
        a
liYSeneaescpmtaohrnace,dlel n&aHtRcneo.denuaasvredeyLironyyongefrdaarorPsoen,ef:evtsorheslPeue,rmaionHneny,tieleMwldnootfrintokbldeyrdao,Cynrhe"tAaghTsreuthlreloeas1nt8oiEtmnhDagyau.Dvltaihsoy,Wef oeMPcforamhiMnacmvatceerelcernihsnc,eftimooeu1el7rdnt5ht0p,eosSaosRpeftseosettiyohhcnaheel
Society, M.DCC. LI.," which gives very clear description of the Calendar, and
how was to be rectified.
        it
                                     JAMES FERGUSON.

   Rotulas. --The several Astronomical Rotulas which Fergu

son had invented and had published previous to 1752, were, by
the alteration of the style this year, as before noticed, rendered
entirely useless. He therefore directed his attention to correct
ing them, and had them newly engraved, to suit the altered
style, to take effect on 3d September.

   Lunar Tables and Lunar Node Tables. --During the year

1752, Ferguson calculated and published these two sets of

tables ; the first one was entitled " A Table, showing the days

of all the mean changes of the Moon, from A.D. 1752 to 1800,

New Style." The second was " A Table, showing the days of

the Sun's conjunctions with the nodes of the Moon's orbit, from
A.d. 1752 to 1800, New Style." These tables were printed on
large sheets of paper at One Shilling each ; they have been long
out of print. They were, however, reprinted by Ferguson in
his "Tables and Tracts." London, 1767, pp. 30, 31, and 34,
where the reader will find them.

   Geometrical Cards, &c. -- Ferguson appears to have tran

scribed on cards, and in a very careful and neat manner, every
curious mathematical or geometrical problem that happened to

come in his way. At the time of his death, in 1776, he had a

large collection of these cards, and also papers and drawings on
various philosophical subjects. Many of these cards and papers
came into the possession of the late amiable Capel Lofft, Esq.
On making inquiries regarding these, we learn that " it is now
a very long time since they were seen, and it is to be feared
that they are irretrievably lost." Very few of these curious
cards can now be in existence ; as we happen to have seven, we
shall here give copies and descriptions of five of them, viz. Nos.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, dates 1752 ; the other two will be found under
dates 1743 and 1770, illustrating questions under discussion in

these years.

   Card No. 1. -- The cards on which the geometrical figures are

delineated and described are 4£ inches by 3£ inches, with the

initials J. F., and date 1752, in the lower right-hand corners;
No. 1 is entitled, "To find a Square equal in Area to a given

Circle." Although ingenious, it can be received as an

                                                         Y
170 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

approximation only to what is generally and popularly
known as " The Squaring of the Circle," that
                                                                                     is,  the area

of a circle being given, to find square whose area will mathe
                                a

matically be expressed by the same quantity. This cannot be

done, because the mathematical ratio of a diameter to a circum

ference cannot be determined    ;     this fact were borne in mind

                                  if

by  professed squarers of the circle, before entering upon their

squaring operations,  it      would save them both time and trouble.

                             a
    No. l.~-To find Square equal in Area to given Circle.
                                       a

    Draw the diameter ABC.
    From the centre It. draw radius pcr|>cudicular to the
    diameter.
    Divide radius into equal parts at
    a
         a it

                   EC
                       A
                                         A

                          Ef D
                                                        a
                                                                    D
       From the end of the diameter, draw thro' the tine

    CDE till touch the periphery at E; this line shall be
    the side of square equal in area to the circle.
    And the chord               shall lie the side of square equal in
    area to quadrant of the circle.
    Also, the rectangle triangle       shall be equal to the
    quadrant
                                          J. F., 17J2.

The Squaring the Circle, like the Trisection of the Angle,
and the Duplication of the Cube, are indeterminate ques
tions. On the back of this Geometrical Card, we find
the following note:--Also, the square formed on the chord

  E (and equal to that triangle) shall be the biggest that can
be inscribed in the semicircle, and equal to the biggest circle
that can be inscribed in the semicircle.
A

                           a

                                                                      2.

                                                                              is
                                                                                  a
Geometrical Card No. -- This card                                                  entitled, To make

two equal Circles, whose Areas, taken together, shall be equal

to the Area of given Circle, or four equal Crescents, the sum

of whose Areas shall be equal to the Area of given square.
                              JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                          171

In looking into Ferguson's Select Mechanical Exercises,

we find, in Plate IX., Fig. 5, a diagram similar to the annexed

cut ; and at page 125, a more full description than what is given
on the card, -- we shall therefore give the details, and shall also

do the same with Cards 3, 4, and 5.
cdki" Let
                   be the given circle. In this circle, describe the

/ fmsquare e  l ; and on the middle points of any t wo sides, as at
e and as centres, describe the two circles A a B E A and B b
iC E B ; the areas of these two circles, taken together, shall be

equal to the area of the given circle c d k

                                        EXPLANATION.
              To make two equal circles, whose mens, taken together,
              shall he equal to the area of a given circle, or four equal
              crescents, the sum of whose areas shall be equal to the-area
              tf /of a (riven square. T<etcdki be the given circle: in it in-

              scrlbe the square ml, aml on the midrilc points of any
              of the two sides, as at e.and as centres, describe the two
              circles A a B E A and It b C E B ; the areas of these two
              circles, taken  tobDgyeesttchhreeibrs,etraatrhicgehetsqquluianaleretoAAthEBeCCa;Dre,athdeoinfvitdthheeeitgsiiivndetenos
              circle cdki.    of        ttrhiaentgrlieanAglBe CADaCre;  equal, so  are the
              two triangles   D                                           and the  area of
              A B aml    BC       the
              sides A D  and      C of                   of  the        circ.Jle)F.are  equal
              all  the  fonr crescents (on the exterior
              to   the  area of the square. Ac

  ABC" Draw thediagonal A E C, which will divide                                        the square                                      into
                      and ADC, right-angled at                                          B and D.                                       Now
two triangles
ABCas the sides A B and B C of the triangle
                                                                                        are equal, and
so are the sides A D and D C of the triangle ADC, and the

areas of circles being as the squares of their diameters, and the

hypothenuse A C being squared, is equal to the square of the
sides A B and B C or A I) and D C ; the larger semicircle A c
172 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

B d C is equal to the two lesser semicircles A a B e A and B d
C/B; consequently, if you subtract the two common portions A c
Be A and B d C /B, the two remaining crescents A a B c A and

fB6 C'iB will be equal to the two triangles AEBA and BCEB,

which make one half of the square e m l; and therefore, the

sum of the areas of all the four outward crescents is equal to
the area of the whole square."

   Geometrical Card No. 3 is represented in the annexed
woodeut. It is entitled Geometrical Methods for producing
Triangles, Squares, Pentagons, Hexagons, Heptagons, Octa

gons, Nonagons, S-c.

                                                                         No. 3.
                                                                             C

                     // \\

                         o                              jB
          6

      f EXPLANATION.

A B or I> iho diameter of circle.
I'm one foot of the compassesin A. extend the other foot
to O, and draw the dotted curve K \*, and draw the line K L
which will be the aide of a triangle, which may he inscritv
ed in the circle. A C is the length of a line equal to the
side of a square inscribed in I he circle. Put one foot of the
compassesin (i and extend the other to C, and draw the
dotted arc C E then draw the line C E, and It will be the
side of a pentagon, inscribed in the circle. Any o( the
semi-diameters will   be the             side   oKf aGhLexGagoanre,  inscribed   in
the circle. Half the  line K             I, or                        the sides  nf
a (teptagon.inscribed in the             ctihrceleli.ne1OlivKidI*,  the line A C into
two equal parts, then draw                                          then the line A I
tishethaercsidLeAofKanintoocttahgroene,  inscribed in  the circle
                                         equal parts,  then draw      Divide
                                                                     the line
L N, and it will be the side of a nonagon. inscribed in the
circle. The line O E is the side of a decagon, inscribed in
the circle. The line N G is the side of an undecagon,and
AG or GO  the sides of a dtiodecagon, insJc.ribFe, d17in52th. e
circle.

   As Ferguson gives a more full description of these methods
in another paper, we shall insert it also.

   " How to find the side of any regular polygon, from a trigon
to a duodecagon, which may be inscribed in any given circle.
JAMES FERGUSON.  173

   Suppose the circle A B C D. First, through the centre O
draw the straight line AOB, the diameter, dividing the circle

into two equal parts. Second, take in your compasses half the
diameter A O or O B, and putting one foot in A, with the other

mark off K and L points, and draw the straight line K L, which

line will be the length of the side of a triangle, inscribed in the
circle. Third, draw the line C D through the centre O, cutting

the diameter A B at right angles ; and then join A C, and this

line will be the length of the side of the square, inscribed in the
circle. Fourth, set one foot of the compasses in G ; extending
the other to C, describe the arc and chord C E, and the length
of the chord will be the side of a pentagon, inscribed in the
circle. Fifth, any of the semi-diameters AO, OB, &c., are

equal in length to the sides of a hexagon, inscribed in the circle.

Sixth, half the line K L, viz. KG or L G, are the sides of a

heptagon, inscribed in the circle. Seventh, divide the line A C
into two equal parts in F ; then draw the line O F I, cutting the

circumference of the circle in I ; then join A I, and the length

of this chord or line will be the length of the side of an octagon,

inscribed in the circle. Eighth, divide that part of the circle

L A K iuto three equal parts, one third of which is from L to
N ; then draw a line from L to N, and it will be the length of

the side of a nonagon, inscribed in the circle. Ninth, the
length of the line O E is equal to the side of a decagon, inscribed
in the circle ; and lastly, the line N G is the length of the side

of an undecagon or figure of eleven sides, inscribed in the

circle ; and the lines A G, G O, are equal to the length of the

side of a duodecagon, inscribed in said circle."

   Geometrical Card No. 4. -- It will be seen that the diagram

in the annexed woodeut is the same as on Plate IX., Fig. 6th,
in the Select Mechanical Exercises ; and at page 130 we find
the following full description of it. The Card is entitled Matter

Infinitely Divisible.
   " Let A B be a straight line produced to an infinite length

beyond B, and straight throughout. On this line let there be

an infinite number of equilateral triangles placed, as Aab,
bed, def, J'gh, &c, whose bases A b, bd, df, fh, &c., touch
one another upon the right line A B ; and let the side a b

of the first triangle be of any given length, as suppose an
174 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF
inch, and each side of each triangle be of the same length with
a b.

   " Then, from the point A, draw the straight line A c to the
top of the second triangle b c d, and A c shall cut a b in the

middle point at m.

 /" From the point A draw the straight line A e to the top of the

third triangle d e and A e shall cut a b at n, in two-thirds of
its length from a, leaving only one-third remaining from n to b.

                                           Matter infinitely Divisible.

   "From the point A draw the right line Ag to the top of the
fourth triangle fg h, and A g shall cut a b at o in three-fourths

of its length from a ; and consequently leave one-fourth of it
remaining from o to b.

   " Here it is plain that every line drawn from A to the top of

the next triangle, beyond that to which the last preceding line

was drawn, will make a less angle with the line AB than the

last preceding line did. But no right line drawn from the point

A to the top of any triangle placed upon AB, even at an in
fmite distance from A, could ever coincide with the line A B,
although every succeeding line will make a less angle with A B
JAMES FERGUSON.                                                             175

than the line last drawn before it did ; and therefore, the angle

at A will be continually diminishing, but can never come to

nothing.
   " Consequently, the whole line a b will never be exhausted

or quite cut off by any line drawn from A to the top of any

triangle ; and therefore, a part of it will still remain between a
and b, which proves that matter is infinitely divisible."

   Geometrical Card No. 5. --This card is entitled, A Card,
showing how any given Circle may be cut so as to form two
Ovals, witftout any waste ; and the annexed woodeut, with its
short description, will be sufficiently clear for showing how such

may be done.

No 5.-- A Canl, showing how any given Circle may be cut
           so as to form two Ovals, without any waste.

KXPLANATIUN.

Describe the circle, Fig 1. Then divide the radius into
two equal parts, making a mark at the point of division.
Set one foot of the compassesin the centre of the circle, and
extending the other foot to the division mark on the radius,
describe the interior circle 5, 6, 7, s. This done, draw
horizontal and perpendicular lines across the whole sur
face, cutting the centre, and at right angles to each other ;
then cut or saw across these lines, dividing the piece into
four parts ; then cut out the  qundrants  5,  G, 7.1, s. F, .,an1d75Io2i.n
the whole, as in Figs. i. 8.

   These cards were given to us in 1831 by Deane Walker, Esq.,
London, Lecturer on Astronomy and the Eidouranion, which

had belonged to his father, Adam Walker, Esq., Lecturer on
Natural Philosophy, and an old friend of Ferguson.
176 KXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   In looking over Hinton's " Universal Magazine" for 1752, we
find that Ferguson, this year, published a pamphlet on the
Lunar Eclipse, to take place in 1753, April 17th, entitled,---

     "A Calculus of the Lunur Eclipse of the 17th April next (1753)

       to every digit of observation as the shadow comes and goes off.
       By James Ferguson."

   Note. --The middle of this Eclipse of the Moon occurred at
7 o'clock, on the evening of 17th April, 1753.

    We have not been able to procure a copy of this pamphlet ;
it is likely that it would go out of print as soon as it served the
occasion which brought it forth.

   Model of the Solar, Lunar, and Sidereal part of the
Astronomical Clock of 1747. -- A remark by Ferguson in his

recently discovered MS. " Common Place Book," shows, that at
or about the time he invented and made his curious clock in
1747, that he also made a wooden model of that part of it which
actuated the motions of the Sun, Moon, and Stars ; that after
he finished the model, he showed it to Mr. Graham, the cele
brated London Watch and Clock maker ; that Mr. Graham
bought the model from him, and that after whose death, he at
tended the sale of his effects, and bought it back, and ever after
wards retained it in his possession. Our note informs us that
Mr. Graham died on November 16th, 1751, and that his effects
were disposed of by public sale in 1752. Ferguson, in his
MS. " Common Place Book," after describing a clock similar to
the one he made in 1747, adds,

      " Upwards of 20 years ago, I made all the above described part
       (the Astronomical part) in wood, and showed it to the late eminent
       Mr. George Graham, Watchmaker in London, who bought it from
       me, and kept it till he died, after which, when his effects were sold,
      I bought it back, and now (1775), have it in my possession.

                                                                              James Ferouson."
           Bolt Court, Fleet Street,
        London, Dec. 27th, 1775.
    Vide Ferguson's MS. "Common Place Book," p. 135, Col. Lib., Edin.)

IFerguson, in many instances, treats dates rather loosely, and he

does so here, in saying, " upwards of 20 years ago made," &c.,

as the above note was written by him in 1775, he, in the ordi
nary way of reckoning, would seem to point to sometime about the
JAMES FERGUSON.                               177

years 1753 or 1754. It is evident, however, from what he says,

that Mr. Graham had the model for some considerable length
of time before his death, which happened in 1751 ; and as this
model is part of the Astronomical part of the Clock of 1747, it
is evident that had he said about 30 years ago, it would have
been much nearer the true date, when said model was made and

sold.

   An " interesting domestic memorandum " for Ferguson, occur
red in November of this year, viz., the birth of a son, baptized
Murdoch. The following is a copy of extract of the birth ; the
original is in the autograph of Ferguson, on the fly-leaf of his
Bible, now in the possession of Dr. George at Keith :

"Murdoch (born) Friday 3d Nov., 1 752, N.S."

We have not been able to ascertain who Murdoch was named

after ; probably after an old and valued friend of Ferguson's,
viz. Mr. Murdoch, who, in 1748, published " An Account of Sir
Isaac Newton's Philosophical Discoveries." This is now Fer
guson's third child, and it is somewhat singular that none of
them are named after either their grandfather or grandmother,
as is customary. James, the name given to the first-born son,
appears to have been named after his father, instead of being
named John, the praenomen of his paternal grandfather. Who
Agnes was named after is now not known ; but it is certain, it
was not after either of her grandmothers, as the name of her
paternal grandmother was Elspeth Lobban, and that of her
maternal grandmother, Elspeth Grant. Regarding Murdoch
Ferguson, see also dates 1768, 1775, and 1776; as also the

Appendix.
   Our memoranda show that Ferguson, " towards the end of

1752, was busy reading lectures on Astronomy in London

and the provinces, -- in expounding the nature of the recently
altered Calendar, --and on the Eclipse of the Moon, already al

luded to.

   The Trajectorium Lunare Machine and Curve Con
troversy Revived. --Sometime in the year 1752, Ferguson

was again annoyed by the revival of the Trajectory Machine

and Curve Controversy of 1746. One of his former detractors

had, unluckily for himself, got his hands on some old London
                                                  z
178 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

magazine of date 1742, and found in  a Trajectory of the
it,
  it
              by

                         it
                                                                     it,

                                                                           it
Moon's path. In the fulness of his joy, and no doubt with a

little malignity against Ferguson, he at once seut abroad that

the scheme of the Moon's path in this magazine must have

been known to Ferguson, and that he had pirated the scheme

in and palmed upon the world as an original discovery of

his own.

   It was soon discovered that the Trajectory Curve of Badder's
in this magazine was most ridiculous, most absurd, and

that had no resemblance to the true curve of the lunar path

projected  Ferguson's Machine. On this becoming known,

the person who had brought up Badder's scheme from its

oblivion, was, along with his abettors, covered with confusion

and shame --they had gratuitously exposed their own ignorance,

and shown themselves to be persons who could form no opinion
on the merits of the question at issue, in short, incapable of
pointing out which was the right or which was the wrong

curve.

This second assault, although spiritedly begun, suddenly

collapsed, and came to nought, and instead of injuring Fer

guson, as intended,                  resulted in doing him a great deal of
      ;

        it
                                 it
good       showed that his traducers had not studied Astronomy

to any good purpose, and that the curve projected by Fergu

son's Trajectorium Lunarie was the true one.

In note 75 we allude to the first attack on Ferguson

regarding his machine and the curve projected by
                                                                               it
and at note 115 will be found a copy of the letter written                          it

                                                                                            ;
by Ferguson to the Rev. Mr. Birch, Secretary of the Royal

Society, respecting this controversy. In this letter                           will

be seen, that besides referring to the charge of being a
" literary pirate," he complains of a Mr. Hawkes of Norwich,

who had received from him an orrery projection of the curve

of the Moon's* path, and who had published    it                               the Gentle
                                                  in

man's Magazine for 1752, without acknowledging from what

source he had got  it.

                                                     1753.

   Astronomical Lectures, and Publication.-- Early in 1753

we find Ferguson at Norwich, reading lectures on Astronomy,

and the then forthcoming Eclipse of the Moon, on 17th April
                  JAMES FERGUSON.                                  179

of this year. At same time and place, he published a pam
phlet of 16 octavo pages, entitled,

" A Brief Description of the Solar System, to which is subjoined

an Astronomical Account of the year of our Saviour's Crucifixion.
By James Ferguson. Norwich : Printed by W. Chase, for the

author. MDCCLIII. Price Fourpence."

   We have in our possession a copy of this very rare pam
phlet, and as the title-page informs us, it gives a brief descrip

tion of the solar system, &c, in particular as regards planetary

magnitudes, distances, and motions; concluding with an in
teresting " Astronomical account of the year of our Saviour's

Crucifixion," -- subjoined to which is "A Table of the mean
Times of all the Passover Full Moons, adapted to the Meridian
of Jerusalem," --showing the days of the week on which they

occurred, "from the 21st year after the common date of our
Saviour's Birth, to the 40th Year."

   Astronomical Rotula Republished and altered to
New Style. --The alteration of the Style on 3d September,

1752, having rendered Ferguson's previously published Ro-

tulas useless, he, early in 1753, brought out a new one, cal

culated for the new Style. The following is the advertisement
               fly-leaf of his " Analysis of a Course of Lec
of taken fromit,

tures " --:

                         a

                                      1
                                         1

                                                     is
                                                         a
" The Astronomical Rotula, showing the Day of the Month, Change
and Age of the Moon, the places of the Sun and Moon in the
Ecliptic, with the Times of all the Eclipses of the Sun and Moon,
from A. d. 1752 to A.d. 1800, sold at his house for Five Shillings
and Sixpence."

Some years ago we had for some time in our possession one of
these Rotulas, which consisted of series of moveable circular
cards, the largest being about 15 inches in diameter, and the
smallest one about inches. These Rotulas are now exceedingly
scarce, and when they are to be had, they command high

prices.

   The Eclipsareon. --Our memoranda show that Ferguson

invented and made new astronomical machine, which he called
               a
180 EXTENDED MKMOIR OF
an Eclipsareon, for " Exhibiting the Time, Duration, and Quan

tity of Solar Eclipses at all places of the Earth." In his Me

moir he says, " the best machine I ever contrived is the Eclip

sareon, of which there is a figure in the 13th Plate of my
Astronomy." The annexed cut is from a reduced drawing of
this 13th Plate, and the description is also from the same work,
article 405.

                                                                      Eclipsareon.

    " The principal parts of this machine (says Ferguson) are, 1st,
a terrestrial globe A, turned round its axis B by the handle or
winch M ; the axis B inclines 23£ degrees, and has an index
which goes round the hour-circle D in each rotation of the

globe ; 2d, A circular plate E, on the limb of which the months

and days of the year are inserted. This plate supports the
globe, and gives its axis the same position to the Sun, or to a
candle properly placed, that the Earth's axis has to the Sun
upon any day of the year, by turning the plate till the given
day of the month comes to the fixed pointer, or annual index

G ; 3d, A crooked wire F, which points toward the middle of

 the Earth's enlightened disc at all times, and shows to what
                   JAMES FERGUSON.                            181

place of the Earth the Sun is vertical at any given time ; 4th,

A penumbra or thin circular plate of brass I divided into 12

digits by 12 concentric circles, which represent a section of the

Moon's penumbra, and is proportioned to the size of the globe ;

so that the shadow of this plate, formed by the Sun, or a candle

placed at a convenient distance, with its rays transmitted through

a convex lens to make them fall parallel on the globe, covers

exactly all those places upon it that the Moon's shadow and

penumbra do on the Earth ; so that the phenomena of any solar

eclipse may be shown by this machine with candle-light almost
as well as by the light of the Sun; 5th, An upright frame

H H H H, on the sides of which are scales of the Moon's lati

tude or declination from the ecliptic. To these scales are fitted

two sliders K and K, with indexes for adjusting the penumbra's

centre to the Moon's latitude, as it is north or south, ascending

or descending ; 6th, A solar horizon C, dividing the enlightened

hemisphere of the globe from that which is in the dark at any

given time, and showing at what places the general eclipse

begins and ends with the rising or setting Sun ; 7th, A handle

M which turns the globe round its axis by wheel-work, and at

the same time, moves the penumbra across the frame by threads
over the pulleys L, L, L, with a velocity duly proportioned to

that of the Moon's shadow over the Earth, as the Earth turns

on its axis ; And as the Moon's motion is quicker or slower ac

cording to her different distances from the Earth, the penuinbral

motion is easily regulated in the machine by changing one of

the pulleys.

   To rectify the Machine for use.-- The true time of new Moon
and her latitude being known, if her latitude exceeds the num

ber of minutes or divisions on the scales (which are on the side
of the frame, hid from view in the figure of the machine), there

can be no eclipse of the Sun at that conjunction ; but if it does

not, the Sun will be eclipsed to some places of the Earth ; and,

to show the times and various appearances of the eclipse at

those places, proceed in order as follows :--

   To rectify the  Machine for   performing by the     light  of  th<:
Sun. -- 1st, Move  the slides K                        point
                                 K till their indexes         to  the

Moon's latitude on the scales, as it is north or south ascending
or descending, at that time ; 2d, Turn the month-plate E till

the day of the given new Moon comes to the annual index G ;
182 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF                                it,

;;3d, Unscrew the collar N a little on the axis of the handle, to

       Floosen the contiguous socket on which the threads that move
the penumbra are wound, and set the penumbra by hand till
                                    ;its centre comes to the perpendicular thread in the middle of
the frame ; which thread represents the axis of the ecliptic ; 4th,
                                              isTurn the handle till the meridian of London on the globe

comes just under the point of the crooked wire F ; then stop,;a:
and turn the hour-circle D by hand till XII. at noon comes to
                                                                  it
its index, and set the penumbra's middle to the thread ; 5th,
Turn the handle till the hour-index points to the time of new
Moon in the circle D ; and holding it there, screw fast the collar
N ; lastly, Elevate the machine till the Sun shines through the
sight-holes in the small upright plates O, O, on the pedestal ;
and the whole machine will be rectified.

   To rectify the Machine for showing by candte light. --Pro

ceed in every respect as above, except in that part of the last
paragraph where the Sun is mentioned ; instead of which, place
a candle before the machine, about four yards from so as the
shadow of intersection of the cross threads in the middle of the

frame may fall precisely on that part of the globe to which the
crooked wire points then, with a pair of compasses, take the
distance between the penumbra's centre and intersection of the
threads and equal to that distance, set the candle higher or
lower, as the penumbra's centre above or below the said inter
section lastly, place a large convex lens between the machine
and candle, so as the candle may be in the focus of the lens,
and then the rays will fall parallel, and cast strong light on the

globe.

   Its use. -- These things done, which may be sooner than
expressed, turn the handle backward, until the penumbra
almost touches the side H of the frame then turning
gradually forward, observe the following phenomena -- 1st,

Where the eastern edge of the shadow of the penumbra! plate
   first touches the globe at the solar horizon, those who inhabit

the corresponding part of the Earth see the eclipse begin on the
 uppermost edge of the Sun, just at the time of its rising 2d,

In that place where the penumbra's centre first touches the

 globe, the inhabitants have the Sun rising upon them centrally
 eclipsed; 3d, When the whole penumbra just falls upon the
 globe, its western edge at the solar horizon touches and leaves
I

                                   F

                                                           ;
JAMES FERGUSON.  183

the place where the eclipse ends at Sun-rise on his lowermost

edge --continue turning, and, 4th, the cross-lines in the centre

of the penumbra will go over all those places on the globe where
the Sun is centrally eclipsed ; 5th, When the eastern edge of
the shadow touches any place of the globe, the eclipse begins
there ; when the vertical line in the penumbra comes to any
place, then is the greatest obscuration at that place ; and when
the western edge of the penumbra leaves the place, the eclipse
ends there--the times of all which are shown on the hour-circle ;

and from the beginning to the end, the shadows of the concen
tric penumbral circles show the number of digits eclipsed at all
the intermediate times ; 6th, When the eastern edge of the
penumbra leaves the globe at the solar horizon C, the inhabit
ants see the Sun beginning to be eclipsed on his lowermost edge
at its setting; 7th, Where the penumbra's centre leaves the
globe, the inhabitants see the Sun-set centrally eclipsed ; and
lastly, where the penumbra is wholly departing from the globe,
the inhabitants see the eclipse ending on the uppermost
part of the Sun's edge, at the time of its disappearing in the

horizon.

   N.B. -- If any given day of the year on the plate E be set to

the annual-index G, and the handle turned till the meridian of

any place comes under the point of the crooked wire, and then

the hour-circle D set by the hand till XII. comes to its index ;

in turning the globe round by the handle, when the said place
touches the eastern edge of the hoop or solar horizon C, the

index shows the time of Sun-setting at that place ; and when
the place is just coming out from below the other edge of the
hoop C, the index shows the time when the evening twilight
ends to it. When the place has gone through the dark part A,
and comes about so as to touch under the back of the hoop C
on the other side, the index shows the time when the morning
twilight begins ; and when the same place is just coming out
from below the edge of the hoop next the frame, the index points
out the time of Sun-rising ; and thus, the times of Sun-rising
and setting are shown at all places in one rotation of the globe,
for any given day of the year ; and the point of the crooked wire

F shows all the places over which the Sun passes vertically on

that day." (Ferguson's Astronomy, 4to Edit., London, 1764;
article 405, pp. 298--301).
184 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Although Ferguson esteemed " The Eclipsareon " machine

his best invention, it does not appear to have been made for sale

by any of the London Optical, Mathematical, and Philosophical

Instrument makers. We, some years ago, called on a great

number of them, who, in reply to our inquiries regarding as     ;

                                                                     it,
sured us, that they never had such machine on sale, nor ever
                              it
heard of one being made by London Instrument makers we also
                                           is a
called on a great many dealers in second-hand Astronomical

and Philosophical Instruments, and they too never heard of such

a machine as an Eclipsareon having been made. Probably

the difficulty of adjusting and using the Eclipsareon may have

been an obstacle in the w<ay of making them for sale or
                                                                          ;

                                                                                 if

any difficulty ever existed,  may have arisen from Ferguson

himself not giving a description and drawing of the wheel-work

which turned the globe, &c. It                   difficult to see why an

explanation of such an essential part of the machine as the

wheel-work has been omitted. This Eclipsareon appears to

have been sold at Mr. Ferguson's sale in March 1777, to a

James Ferguson, Teacher of Navigation, &c, Hermitage Row,

near the Tower, London, at whose sale (according to the

Catalogue before us), the Eclipsareon was sold at the end                           of

the first day's sale as " Lot 102.--An Eclipsareon made                   byJ
Ferguson, FR.S., in a case, to W. Walker, for £3 3s."

We have no other notes in our collection regarding Ferguson

for the year 1753.

                              1754.

Ferguson, early in 1754, had been solicited by several of
his friends, members of the Royal Society, to send his Eclip
                              and of its use, to the Society
sareon, and a description of  it,
                                                                               it,
meeting, in order that that learned body might see                                  and

thereby bring  it it     and its inventor prominently into notice.

Ferguson complied with the request made to him, and wrotep. a

out a description of the Eclipsareon, and its use, and lost no

time in sending to the Royal Society House in Crane Court,
Fleet Street. In their Transactions,
                                                 indexed as
                              9,

                                    it
                                          is

                                                      p.
                                                                  ;

                                                                       a
" Description of piece of Mechanism for exhibiting the Time,
Duration, and Quantity of Solar Eclipses at various places of the

Earth.'' Read before the Royal Society, 21st February,  1754.           ("PThhile.
Trans., Vol. 48, 520, or Abrid. Trans. X., 456           also,

Universal Magazine,'' Vol. 17, pp. 10).
JAMES FERGUSON.  185

   The Eclipsareon was exhibited, and the description and use
of it read to the members of the Royal Society at their meeting,
on Thursday, 21st February, 1754, under title as annexed ; and
an account of it was entered in their Transactions, as above

noticed.

   Ferguson's Address, 1754. -- He appears to have been resid
ing in Broad Street, Golden Square, early this year, as we ob

serve in Kent's London Directory for this year the following

entry :--

      1754. --James Ferguson, Astronomer, Brood Street, Golden Square.

   According to a remark which we saw many years since, in a
letter in the autograph of Ferguson, and which we at the time
took a note of, it appeared as certain, that Ferguson, in 1754,
projected and began to write and collect materials for his great
work, "Astronomy Explained upon Sir Isaac Newton's Prin
ciples;" a full account of which will be found under date 1756,
when the work was published.

   Publication. --Sometime during the year 1754, Ferguson
published an 8vo pamphlet of 32 pages with 2 engravings,- --

entitled,
       " An Idea of the Material Universe deduced from a survey of the
       Solar System. By James Ferguson. London : Printed for the
      author. MDCCLIV. Price One Shilling."

    The first engraving, or plate, represents the usual diagram of

the Solar System ; and Plate 2d, Sidereal Systems (intended

to illustrate " the architecture of the heavens.")
   In its matter it is something similar to his " Brief Description

of the Solar System," published at Norwich in 1753, as already
noticed. This pamphlet has long been out of print, and it was
with the greatest difficulty we secured a copy of it.

                                                     1755.

   Ferguson invented and made a large Wooden Orrery.
--In the year 1755, Ferguson invented and made a large wooden

orrery for exhibiting the annual motion of the Earth, the paral
lelism of its axis ; and consequently, the change of the seasons ;
the Moon's periodic, synodic, anomalistic, nodal, and diurnal

                                                      2A
186 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

motions, with the nodal and apogee motions of her orbit, &c.

In this wooden orrery we find a very simple and tolerably

accurate lunation period, more accurate than in any of the
orreries he had previously made.1s0 In his Tables and Tracts,

Ferguson says, "About 12 years ago, (that                                     it it is,in 1755),
                                                                                         if
made a large wooden orrery, for showing only the motions
                                                                                              is I
of the Earth and Moon, with the retrograde motion of her nodes,

and the phenomena arising from all their motions. The

Earth had not its diurnal and annual motions carried on by

means of winch, but by hand and as the Earth was moved
         I                                  ;
round the Sun, the Moon was carried round the Earth in hera;
                    it
orbit, and her nodes had their retrograde motions. As there;it

something very particular and simple in the construction of thisit I

machine, and as the Moon's motion in will not vary above one

degree from the truth in 304 years and as answers as well in
                                                                          it

leap years as in common years, and has only seven wheels and

one pinion in                       shall here mention its use, but must beg to

be excused from describing the position of its wheels and their

numbers of teeth, because intend to instruct my son, both
                                         I

he and live till the proper time, how to make for his own

benefit. Besides, would be very difficult to make intelligible

by a description, without seeing            it     especially as some of the

                                                ;

wheels are not only divided into very uncommon numbers of

teeth, but also that, in some of the wheels, equal numbers of

teeth are contained in unequal spaces, for showing the inequal

ity of the Earth's annual motion round the Sun, and of the

Moon's motion round her orbit.1s1 It shows the following mat

ters very readily.

1sI> The lunar-trains of all his orreries, made previously, produce 29 12
45 m. exactly, the true mean length of the synodical revolution of the Moon              it
being 29 12 44 m. 2'88s. In the lunar train of this wooden orrery the
         is                              254 s- (assuming the year to consist of 365} days).d.
period        d.                    m.   235 teeth had its common central hole filled up,              a h.
    1s1                              of
                   d.
                         h.
         If   29      12     h. 44
             the  large      wheel                                                                and

a fresh hole made in         it,    about ^ part of the diameter of the wheel out of the

true centre, then the bar with pmion 19 had sliding motion to accommodateif
itself to the new centre distances, would actuate the motion of pinion 19 in
                                         it
                                           of

                                                                 a
                                                                       ;
manner similar to that described by Ferguson. Ferguson describes the wheel-
otwtoFeabneoeiserntreghkerwuvd"hesoedorfie,nenltfehubhritnsseheeraienoqttogruraaetswdhlordehydssepiweivatnlhichsdeaehes2tei;d,s3l,s5"","vShii5inenez9r.le,hestioc5hsmta5ed,lelMeula1sder9cgec,rehdtihpacetonwitoniwhocntehaaeelialenoslfisEn2,txg:hh1eae5ervqociwduinstdahgheleesne,rn"uel"u-mfwmoufborrnbeoercek,mrorstsmhhoweemofhfwotiocetnoneherle,ytdnhtuhm"minaewsrbneotehitmlricelosomenbno,.se"f
used by Ferguson here, ought to be one (one of tiie wlweh). Ferguson wrote the
above in 1767, and the description of the wheel-work in 1773.
                       JAMES FERGUSON.  187

The lengths of days and nights at all places of the Earth, and

at all times of the year ; with all the vicissitudes of seasons. The

Sun's place in the ecliptic on any given day of .the year, and

time of the day ; with his declination, altitude, and azimuth at

any time ; also, his amplitude, and the time of his rising and

setting. The time of the day, by the observed altitude or azimuth

of the Sun. The variation of the compass, in any place, whose

latitude is known, by a single observation of the Sun's altitude,

taken at any time, either in the forenoon or afternoon. The

Moon's periodical and synodical revolution, with her rotation on

her axis, and different phases. The retrograde motion of her

nodes, and direct motion of her apogee. Her mean anomaly and

her elliptic equation, by which her true place in her orbit is

very nearly found at any time. Her latitude, declination, alti

tude, and azimuth at any time when she is above the horizon.

Her amplitude, and the time of her rising and setting, however

affected by her latitude. The times of all the new and full Moons,

and of all the solar and lunar eclipses within the limits of 6,000

years before or after the Christian Era; with an easy method of

rectifying the machine, in less than two minutes of time, for

the beginning of any given year within these limits ; and when

it is once rectified, it will keep right for 304 years either back

wards or forwards ; at the end of which time, the Moon must be

set one degree forward in her orbit. The small difference in the

time of the Moon's rising, in harvest, throughout the week in

which she is full ; and the great difference in the time of her

setting during that week. The recession of the equinoctial points

in the ecliptic. The phenomena of the tides, and the causes of

many irregularities in their heights, and times of ebbing and flow
                       "TaSbelleesctanMdeTchraacntisc,al1stEExdeirtc.,ispeps.,"16d8e--scr1ib7e1s).
ing." (See Ferguson's
    Ferguson, in his

the wheel-work of this orrery as follows, but gives no illus

trative engraving of it. We therefore annex one from his

description, to assist the reader the more clearly to understand it.

   In this work he says, " This is the orrery mentioned in my
Tables and Tracts (page 169, 2d Edition), which I intended to

keep for my son, who was then serving an apprenticeship to a

Mathematical Instrument maker.1s2 But as it has pleased God

   1*' The late Mr. Andrew Kcid, watchmaker, London, who died about the year
1834, aged 84 (and who, bh formerly mentioned, was on intimate tonus of friend
188 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

to call him from this world to a better, I shall now freely com

municate it to the public.
   " A large wheel of 235 teeth is fixed in the box that contains

the work (see the annexed sectional view of the wheel- work),
the centre of the wheel being in the centre of the box, directly

                                  Section of the Wheel-work of the Orrery.

                                    Plan of the Wheel-work of the Orrery.

under the Sun's centre. On this wheel runs a pinion of 19
leaves, earned round the teeth of the wheel by the annual mo
tion of the Earth ; and by this means, the pinion is turned round
its own axis for every 19 teeth that is carried onward, in going

ship with the Ferguson family), informed us, that James, the son here alluded
ttIoinc,a1lw7aI6ns7,s,taruwbmohueetnntthFeemrygaeukaseror,n17C6op3ru,nbhlaiislplh,perdeLnotnhicdiseodn",toTtahMberle.ssoNnaanirbdneeiT,nrgaOcptthtsiecn"iani(nfraohnmids
                                                                                                                                                                          Mathema
                                                                                                                                                                          15th year.
                                                                                                                                                                          which the

first part of this description has been taken), the son would then be in the 4th
"year of   hMiseacphparneicnatilceEsxheiprc. iseHse"  died five  years after this, in
   Select                                              appeared   ; thus, Ferguson     1772, the                                                                          year   before
                                                                                       had kept                                                                           the   wheel-

work of this orrery private, for his son's benefit, for upwards of 17 years. (See
dates 1763 and 1772).
                                          JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                                     189

round the wheel.1s3 Now, supposing this pinion to be carried
round the wheel in 365^ days, the pinion will be turned round
its own axis in 29 days 12 hours 44 minutes 25 seconds,1s4 and
a bar on the axis of the pinion will carry the Moon round the
Earth from change to change in that time. This comes so

near to the truth, as to vary but one day in the Moon's course

in 335 years ; and these are the nearest numbers for such simple

wheel-work that can possibly be found for mean lunations.1s6

1s8 Wheel 235 and pinion 19 = ^^; that                          there are 235 complete synodic
                                    in 19 years very nearly.    ;
revolutions of the Moon             method for finding the ratio jysd. is is,         by " continuous
                                                                         ?
   The  "f--ollTohweingperiodthoef    tropical or solar year 865 d.               d. 5     48 m. 51 s.,                                                        frac
tions         is                                                                        d. h.                                                             '6  and
:                        a                                                                   2 5 h.                                                               6
                                                                                                   8                                                                   ;a
synodic revolution of the Moon round the Earth, 29 12 44 m.                                                                                            2      a. Re
                                                                                                                                                          8

=quired, the continuous fractions of these periods 865
                                                                                                                                                       h. 48 m. 51 s.

decimally expressed,  is        365 -242264 days, and 29 12h. 44 m.                                                                                    s. 29 -680589

days, and A'i V&W* are prime to each other therefore,

29-530589)365-242264(12
                     354367068

           10875196)29530589(2
                              21750392

                                    7780197)10875196(1
                                                       7780197

Quotients 12-21 -21 117, &c.              3094999)7780197(2
                                                           6189998

Then as by former rules already given (see 1590199)3094999(1
description of the orrery under date 1745).                         1590199

        *0X12+^ = ^                                                 1504800)1590199(1
           X 2+ = ft                                                                 1504800
        a
        ft X 1+tV= ft1                                                                                                                                 85399)1504800(17
                            »
        ftxft x 2+ft = ft
        fW X                       isl+^V = -rV5= tuefraction             by
                                       a+ft = ft*5 *c-          used                  Ferguson.

We may note that ^ft                      remarkable fraction 19 "the cycle of the Moon,
                                                                is
                                                                   a

                                                                      ;
                                                                                  is
commonly called the golden number, and                          revolution of 19 years, in which
time the conjunctions, oppositions, and other aspects of the Moon are within an
hour and half of being the same as they were on the same days of tho months
19 years before." (See Ferguson's Astronomy, article 383). In 19 years there
are very nearly 235 complete mean lunations.                    thTehis"  cycle of 19 was                                                                 discovered
about the year 430 B.C. by Meton, and called                              Metonic Cycle."                                                                  We are of
                                          a
                                                   is

                                                                 if

                                                                                    ;
                                                                                         a
toahpneidni2olu3nn5atrluhnarata,ttioioonnsint=hitsh2i3so5ccotaerserietohrny,,in--Fettrhhgeeuslao1r9ngeyseifamirxspeldy=wa1hd9eoepleltaevdetshtuhisen,  Metonic Cycle for
                                                                                                                                                       the Moon pinion,
                                                                                                                                                       he would find the

jftratio ft^ ready at hand, and for simple                      ratio, produces           asvefroyllocworsrec--t                                              lunation.
                                                                may be found                                                                           :      Ferguson
   ls4 This period from the ratio
assumes pinion 19 to be carried round wheel 235 in 365J days, or decimally ex
=pressed, in 365-25 days; therefore, 235-=-19= 12 368421, and 365-25-=-12-36'8421

    29 -530851, or 29 d. 12 h. 44 m. 25 526 s. But he had assumed 865
                                                                                                                                                              d. d.
                                                                                                                                                                    5

                                                                                                                                                                        h. h.
48 m. 58 s. as he has adopted in his other orreries, or 365 242347 days, then we
will have less period, for 365-242347 4-12'368421 =29 530232, or 29 12
        a

43 m. 32 045 s. nearly.             to this  orrery in his " Tables                   "     and Tracts,"                                                      p.  170,
   1sS Ferguson, referring          Moon                                                       iinll keep right
                                              accurately adjusted                                                                                                  for
mentions, that when the                    is
                                                                                    it

304 years either backwards or forwards." In his "Select Mechanical Exercises,"
190 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

" But in nature, the Earth moves unequally round the Sun,

so that there are 8 days more between the vernal and autumnal

equinox than between the autumnal and vernal. And there

fore, in common orreries, where this circumstance is taken

no notice of, the Earth's position to the Sun cannot be right at

both the equinoctial points.1s6

  " In order to avoid this error, I first divided the ecliptic into

360 equal parts or degrees, and then, after having put the

isnames of the signs to
                           a

                                   ; it,

                         I
                                                         I

                                                                                                                                                         ;
                                     laid down the days of the year from

an ephemeris against the degrees of the Sun's place in the eclip

tic, for each day respectively throughout the year. By this

means, the daily spaces answering to the Earth's unequal mo

tion round the Sun, were so divided, as to be continually and gra

dually lessening from the 30th of December till the first of July
and then as gradually lengthening from the first of July to

the 30th of December as the Earth's progressive annual motion

swiftest of all on the 30th of December, and slowest of all on

the 1st of July.

    " The days of the months being unequally divided, so as to

answer to the Earth's unequal motion round the Sun, made

these divisions pattern or scale for dividing the 235 teeth of

the above-mentioned wheel into such unequal spaces as

would agree with the spaces allotted for the days answering

to them. But these gradual inequalities of the teeth

were so very small, and the difference so little between the

widest and narrowest, that the pinion (whose leaves were
all equal) run very smoothly through all the teeth of the

wheel as the leaves of the pinion were sized to these teeth,
p.
             ;
90, he says, that when so set, will keep right for 335 years                                    difference here
                       ;;                                                                    (a
                                        d.                                                        d.
                                            h. it

                                                      d.
                                                          1
                                                             2
                                                                  h.

                                                                        3
                                                                                37
                                                                                          7
of 31  years).     In  trying the    period, we tind that the Moon will keep right for
about  314 years,  --  thus, 29      12 44 m. 25 s. 32 thds. =z the period of pinion

19, and Ferguson adopts 29 d. 12 h. 44 m. s. thds. as the true period, as
estimated in his time therefore, 29  44 m. s. thds. --29 12 h. 44 m.

25 s. 32 thds. -- 22 s. 25 thds. of error in each synodic revolution of the Moon (or
                   Pinion 19, which  carries the Moon,   makes                             12368421 revolutions   or
22'417s.)       365J days heme,      12 368421 X 22 417                                    262. In aday, there   are
turns in                                                 = 277
86400 seconds, which, on being divided by 277 -262, will give 311 -fg years before
pinion 19 can make one day of error, either backwards or forwards, after
                                                                                                      it         has

been correctly rectified, which nearly agrees with the period he gives in his As

tronomy, section 385.
i*« In common orreries, this never attended to still, there have been made,
                                     is
                                                                         ;

both in this and other countries, orreries and planetaria for exhibiting the equated
motions of the Moon and all the planets round the Sun. In this country, the
name of our late friend the Kev. Dr. Pearson stands prominent in France, that
                                                                                             ;

of Antide Janvier, and in America, that of Mr. Rittenhousc.
                                JAMES FERGUSON.                                                          191

   which were at a mean rate between the greatest and least dis
   tances from one another. By this contrivance, the mean luna
   tion was always 29 days 12 hours 44 minutes 25 seconds
   throughout the whole year ; and the pinion was among the least
   distant teeth of the wheel when the annual index was at the

   1st of July, and among the most distant teeth when the index

   was at the 30th of December.
       " For the parallelism of the Earth's axis a wheel of 59 teeth

   was fixed in the middle of the work, with its centre directly
· over the centre of the wheel of 235 teeth, and the teeth of

   another wheel of 59 took into the teeth of the former; and

   those into the teeth of a third wheel of the same number, on

   the top of whose axis the piece that carries the Earth on its
   oblique axis was fixed. And, as the Earth was moved round the
   Sun, these three wheels kept the parallelism of the Earth's
   axis, as described in the Mechanical Paradox, and the former

orrery.
    " Above the middlemost wheel of 59, and on its axis, is fixed

a wheel of the same number, which takes into a wheel of 56
teeth ; this last wheel is just below the Earth, and turns the
nodes of the Moon's orbit quite round backward, in 18$

years.1s7

    " Above the last-mentioned wheel of 59 teeth, and on the

same axis with       ; it,      wheel of 55, turning a wheel of 62 teeth
                         is
                             a
below the Earth and this wheel of 62 moves the Moon's apogee

plate quite round forward, in years 312 days.1ss And from
                                           8
                                                      8

                                                                       7

                                                                                              1

                                                                                    it,

                                                                                                                      1
this plate a wire rises, and points out the place and motion of
the apogee in the Moon's ecliptic."

    Ferguson mentions that there were only wheels and

pinion in this orrery, but according to his description of just

quoted,  it       evident that there are wheels and pinion in

              is

it.1s9 In the year 1828 we made an orrery of this kind from

    1s7 As formerly noted, Ferguson, in all of his large orreries, used this incor
rect train of wheels. The period of the Moon's nodes
    years and  224 days nearly but 1*J$    ;f                not                   retrograde period of
    18$ years  nearly, as formerly shown                                                          but
18                   1                                   §% isyears             =18$93y,eaarsn,d  93+5a  =per9io8d;
of                                                                          is
                        Jf. %\                                                 a
                                           and 18x5+3
therefore, by using                  8as the fraction, we havefor the new and more correct
                                        ;
set of wheels, instead of                See also not* 135.

  fJJ-f-1ss £5 does not

fyoelalorsws=:--peAripoodgeoef
                  appear   to   have been produced by continuous fractions, but                          as
                  period
                           =     = =years 312 days,                                nearly, we have       8f
                               hence, 8x7+6                                           55, wheels of
                  apogee;                  and as                               7                        55

                                           62, and 62 --

and 62 as given above.
192 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

                                                         that had " only wheels
   1

                                                  it,
                                                       it
                                                                                              7
the description, but so contrived

and pinion."

   The annexed sectional view will, when kept in connection

with the previous details, sufficiently show the arrangement

without a description of their actions (the only difference beinga               a7
in having a thick wheel of 59 driving the two wheels of 59 and                               .
56). Such machine might be made for about £7.;
      ;                                                                                                a
   Ferguson adds, that " As the Moon goes round the Earth, she
comes to her mean changes, nodes, and apogee, in the proper0,8
times; and at all intermediate times, her distance from her1,.
         2,
apogee and nodes are shown on her ecliptic, orbit, and apogee-3. is
plate on which last her mean anomaly and elliptic equation areIt .
shown by which means her true place in the ecliptic, and heris 1 a82231 ;
latitude, may be very nearly found for any given time.

    " The days of the months throughout the year are laid down
in a diagonal manner, in spiral of four revolutions, marked

              for leap year, and the first, second, and third years after.
The annual index, in these spirals, being at the given day of any
month, for either of these years, all the other motions and phe
nomena will be right for that day and by means of these dia
gonals, the lunation brought still nearer the truth than as

above specified.

   1s9 This orrery has the followiug wheels, --viz.

A  large wheel having 235 teeth (for

   Moon's motion),                           .           wheel.

Parallelism of Earth's axis, three wheels

   of 59 teeth each,           .                         do.

Moon's nodes, wheel of 59 and one of
                a
   56 teeth,      a  .                                   do.

Moon's apogee,       wheel of 65 and one

   of 62 teeth,         .                                do.

                           Total number,                 wheels, and one pinion of 19 leaves.

Therefore, there are wheels    and             pinion  in this orrery, and not  "  wshleipels"   and
   pinion as Ferguson has it.                singular  that his pen has made                     in
1
matter like this.
                      JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                        193

" Within this set of spirals are tables, which show the places

of the Sun. Moon, Ascending Node, and Apogee, for the noon

of the first day of January in any year, within the limits of
6,000 years, both before or after the Christian Era ; And, by

means of these tables, the Orrery may, in less than t wo minutes

of time, be rectified for the beginning of any of these years;

and then, all the motions, not only for that year, will be right,

but also for 334 years afterward, without needing any rectifica

tion.
   " By comparing this description with that of the orrery in

the 8th Plate of my Astronomy (see Sect. 399), it will be very
easily understood, particularly those parts which show the paral

lelism of the Earth's axis, the motion of the Moon's nodes and
apogee." (Ferguson's " Select Mechanical Exercises," 2d Edit.,

Lond., 1778, pp. 88--93).

                            1755.

AleNttTehOr,errgeMivreyecnh(a1an7t5ic5)ap. lp--. PF1ea4rr5gaud--soonx1,48(,nofeamr1e7n5tth0i)eonscC,loosnetvheaotrftedhheis  into

                                                                                                                             long
                                                                                                                             kept
the Mechanical Paradox (in its original form) " for six years

without finding any person who could explain the principles on

which it acted, and then put the Sun and Earth, with the eclip

                          it,
                                  it

                                         it
tic and Moon's orbit, to  seeing would then be a kind of

orrery." From this remark,         would appear that he con

verted his Mechanical Paradox into the orrery form sometime

in the year 1755. The annexed woodeut shows the Paradox in

its transformed orrery state; between the years 1750 and 1760:--

Fergruson made several of these Paradox Machines and Orreries;

but appears to have forgotten when each was made -- this may

account for the discrepancies in his dates respecting them. We

                    is                             him about
                          is

                                              *1
                                              B

                                                                       by
                                                                              F,
                                                                                         is
have in our possession one of these orreries made

1759. The following his description of the Paradox Orrery,
taken from his " Select Mechanical Exercises."

   " Having solved the Paradox, and described the cause of the

different effects which are produced upon the three wheels                                                                   G,

and H, we shall now proceed to show some uses that may be

made of the machine.

" This machine        (as altered) so much of an orrery, as

sufficient to show the different lengths of days and nights, the

vicissitudes of the seasons, the retrograde motion of the nodes
194 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

of the Moon's orbit, the direct motion of the apogeal point of
her orbit, and the months in which the Sun and Moon must
be eclipsed.

   " On the great immoveable plate A (Fig. 1) are the months and

days of the year, and the signs and degrees of the zodiac, so placed,

that when the annual index h is brought to any given day of

the year, it will point to the degree of the sign in which the Sun
is on that day. This index is fixed to the moveable frame B C,

and is carried round the immoveable plate with by means of;

the knob n. The carrying this frame and index round theit,

immoveable plate, answers to the Earth's annual motion round

the Sun, and to the Sun's apparent motion round the ecliptic

in a year.              (being fixed on the axis a, which  fixed
   " The central wheel
E                                                          is

                 by                                             E

                D
in the centre of the immoveable plate) turns the thick wheel

round its own axis the motion of the frame and the teeth of

the wheel take into the teeth of the three wheels  F,         H,

                                                         G,
                             JAMES FERGUSON.                            195

whose axes turn within one another, like the axes of the hour,

minute, and second hands of a clock or watch, where the seconds

are shown from the centre of the dial-plate.

   " On the upper ends of these axes are the round plates I, K, L ;
the plate I being on the axis of the wheel F, K on the axis of
G, and L on the axis of H ; So that, whichever way these wheels

are affected, their respective plates, and what they support,
must be affected in the same manner; each wheel and plate

being independent of the others.
   " The two upright wires M and N are fixed into the plate I,

and they support the small ecliptic O P, on which, in the

machine, the signs and degrees of the ecliptic are marked.
This plate also supports the small terrestrial globe e on its in

clining axis /, which is fixed into the plate near the foot of the

wire N. This axis inclines 23^ degrees from a right line, suppos
ed to be perpendicular to the surface of the plate I, and 66£ to
the plane of t he small ecliptic O P, which is parallel to that plate.

   " On the Earth e is the crescent g, which goes more than half

way round the Earth, and stands perpendicular to the plane of

the small ecliptic O P, directly facing the Sun Z ; its use is to
divide the enlightened half of the Earth next the Sun from the

other half which is then in the dark ; so that it represents the

boundary of light and darkness, and therefore ought to go quite
round the Earth ; but cannot, in a machine, because, in some

positions, the Earth's axis would fall upon it. The Earth may
be freely turned round on its axis by hand, within the crescent,

which is supported by the crooked wire w, fixed to                it,  and into
the upper plate of the moveable frame                                   and
                                                   B      is C.
  " In the plate K are fixed the two upright wires
                                                               :  it    by
they support the Moon's inclined orbit             S      in its nodes, which areQ
                                                                           R
                                                     T
                                                                                   ;
the two opposite points of the Moon's orbit where intersects

the ecliptic             The ascending node marked Q, to which the
           O                                       is
               P, O

                     P.
descending node opposite, below but hid from viewisS3 e,                the

globe e. The half SJ                  of this orbit on the north side of the
                             T                     is is

                                   e

ecliptic      and the other half       e                  on the south side of the
ecliptic.
                                         S

           The Moon          is       not in this machine but, when she
                                                                  S,
                                                                           is is

                                                                                   is
                                                                                          is
in either of the nodes of her orbit in the heavens, she then in

the plane of the ecliptic when she at in her orbit, she in
                             ;              is
                                    ;
                                                  T

her greatest north latitude and when she at she in her

greatest south latitude.
196 EXTENDED MEMOIH OF

" In the plate L is fixed the crooked wire U U, which points

downward to the small ecliptic O P, and shows the motion of

the Moon's apogee therein, and its place at any given time.
   " The hall Z represents the Sun, which is supported by the

crooked wire X Y, fixed into the upper plate of the frame at X.
A straight wire W proceeds from the Sun Z, and points always

toward the centre of the Earth e ; but toward different points of

its surface at different times of the year, on account of the ob

liquity of its axis, which keeps its parallelism during the Earth's
annual course round the Sun Z; and therefore must incline

sometimes toward the Sun, at other times from him, and twice

in the year neither toward nor from the Sun, but sideways to

him. The wire W is called the solar ray.
   "As the annual index // shows the Sun's place in the ecliptic

for every day of the year, by turning the frame round the axis
of the immoveable plate A, according to the order of the months

and signs, the solar ray does the same in the small ecliptic OP;

for, as this ecliptic has no motion on its axis, its signs and de

grees still keep parallel to those on the immoveable plate. At

the same time, the nodes of the Moon's orbit S T (or points
where it intersects the ecliptic O P) are moved backward, or con
trary to the order of signs, at the rate of
                                                                                 degrees every
Julian year ; 19" and the Moon's apogeal wire U U is moved for

ward, or according to the order of the signs of the ecliptic,

nearly at the rate of 41 degrees every Julian year; the year

being denoted by a revolution of the Earth e round the Sun Z ;

in which time, the annual index h goes round the circles of

months and signs on the immoveable plate A.191
   " Take hold of the knob n, and turn the frame round thereby ;

and in doing this, you will perceive that the north pole of the

l"0 The nodes of the Moon's orbit retrograde 18 degrees 53 minutes annually.
In this machine,   wheels    3y7eaarsnd=3967p5r7odduacyse,                       which consists of
6798 days nearly,    in 184                                 the nodal   period,  of 41 days, minus
                                                             showing   an error

the true mean period. (See also note 189).
191 A mean revolution of the apogee of the Moon's orbit is accomplished in
       ; therefore, if

       1314!Xia-!-3232
da=ys=about 3232             3232 days      : 360°: : 365J days ?-- 365],        or decimallv,
                                    40-683                                            the apogee
365-25x3t>0                                  degrees oMOMl': that
                   ;
                                           is
                                                   a

                                                               5,

                                                                            8| J

                                                                                                                 is,
                                                                                                                      a
progresses in the Moon's orbit at the rate of 40° 41' every 365 days. The wheels
=used in this machine for producing an apogeal motion, are wheels, one of 39
teeth, the other 44 therefore, 39 -- 44 -                   and 44-i-5  years for machine

revolution of the apogee, which  period of 3212 days instead of 3232 days,
showing an error of 2(1 days, minus in said true mean period of the apogee, thus
showing that the apogee pointer progresses ill the Moon's orbit in the machine
at the rate of 40 degrees 56 minutes per annum
JAMES t'EKUUSON.  197

Earth e, is constantly before the crescent g, in the enlightened
part of the Earth toward the Sun, from the 20th of March to
the 23d September ; and the south pole all that time behind the

crescent in the dark ; and, from the 23d of September to the
20th of March, the north pole is constantly in the dark, behind
the crescent, and the south pole in the light before it ; which
shows, that there is but one day and one night at each pole, in
the whole year ; and that, when it is day at either pole, it is

night at the other.
   " From the 20th of March to the 23d of September, the days

are longer than the nights in all those places of the northern
hemisphere of the Earth which revolve through the light and
dark, and shorter in those of the southern hemisphere. From

the 23d of September to the 20th of March, the reverse.
   " There are 24 meridian semicircles drawn on the globe, all

meeting in its poles ; and as one rotation or turn of the Earth

on its axis is performed in 24 hours, each of these meridians is
an hour distant from the other, in every parallel of latitude.

Therefore, if you bring the annual index h to any given day of

the year, on the immoveable plate, you may see how long the
day then is at any place of the Earth, by counting how many of
these meridians are in the light, or before the crescent, in the

parallel of latitude of that place ; and this number being sub
tracted from 24 hours, will leave remaining the length of the

night. And if you turn the Earth round its axis, all those places
will pass directly under the point of the solar ray, which the Sun
passes vertically over on that day, because they are just as many

degrees north or south of the equator, as the Sun's declination

is then from the equinoctial.

   " At the two equinoxes, viz. on the 20th of March and 23d of

September, the Sun is in the equinoctial, and consequently has
no declination. On these days, the solar ray points directly

toward the equator, the Earth's poles lie under the inner edge
of the crescent, or boundary of light and darkness ; and in every

parallel of latitude, there are twelve of the meridians or hour-
circles before the crescent, and twelve behind it ; which shows

that the days and nights then are each twelve hours long at all

places of the Earth. And if the Earth be turned round its axis,
you will see that all places on it go equally through the light

and the dark hemispheres.
198 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   " On the 21st of June, the whole space within the north polar
circle is enlightened, which is 23£ degrees from the pole, all

round ; because the Earth's axis then inclines 23£ degrees to
ward the Sun ; but the whole space within the south polar circle
is in the dark ; and the solar ray points toward the tropic of

Cancer on the Earth, which is 23£ degrees north from the

equator. On the 20th of December the reverse happens, and

the solar ray points toward the tropic of Capricorn, which is 234

degrees south from the equator.
   " If you bring the annual index h to the beginning of Janu
ary, and turn the Moon's orbit ST by its supporting wires Q
and R till the ascending node (marked
                                       S3)   comes to its place in
                                            ;
the ecliptic  O          as found by an Ephemeris or by Astronomical
                  by P,
Tables, for the beginning of any given year and then move the

annual index             means of the knob n, till the index comes to

any given day of the year afterward, the nodes will stand against

   heir places in the ecliptic on that day. And you move the
t                                              if

index onward, till either of the nodes comes directly against the

point of the solar ray, the index will then be at the day of the year

on which the Sun         in conjunction with that node. At the
              ;
times of those new Moons, which happen within seventeen days
of the conjunction of the Sun with either of the nodes, the Sunis
will be eclipsed and at the times of those full Moons, which

happen within twelve days of either of these conjunctions, the
Moon will he eclipsed. Without these limits there can be no

eclipses either of the Sun or Moon; because, in nature, the

Moon's latitude or declination from the ecliptic, too great foris

the Moon's shadow to fall on any part of the Earth, or for the

Earth's shadow to touch the Moon.

   " Bring the annual index to the beginning of January, and
UUset the Moon's apogeal wire
                                 to its place in the ecliptic for

that time, as found by Astronomical Tables; then move the index

forward to any given day of the year, and the wire will point

on the small ecliptic to the place of the Moon's apogee for that

time.
   " The Earth's axis inclines always toward the beginning of
                         /

                                                      O
                                                                   if
the sign Cancer on the small ecliptic P. And, you set either

of the Moon's nodes, and her apogeal wire, to the beginning of

that sign, and turn the plate A about, until the Earth's axis

inclines toward any side of the room (suppose the north side),
                             JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                199

and then move the annual index round and round the immove

able plate A, according to the order of the months and signs

            you will see that the Earth's axis and beginning of
Supon

  T

          by it,
                                        it

                                                                 ;
                                                                              :

                                                                                  O
                                                                                       P,
Cancer will still keep toward the same side of the room without

the least deviation from            but the nodes of the Moon's orbit

    will turn progressively towards all sides of the room, con

trary to the order of signs in the small ecliptic                                          or from

east, south, to west, and so on and the apogeal wire U U will

move the contrary way to the motion of the nodes, or according to

the order of the signs in the small ecliptic, from west, by south,

to east, and so on quite round. A clear proof that the wheel
                                                                                      B G,
which governs the Earth's axis and the small ecliptic, does not                          C

turn any way round its own centre that the wheel                                                F,which
                             F, O
governs the Moon's orbit         P, turns round its own centre back

wards, or contrary both to the motion of the frame; F,                                                      and

thick wheel      E        and the wheel H, which governs the Moon'sG,

                     ;                                ;

apogeal wire U, turns round its own centre, forward, or in
                       U

direction both of the motion of the frame, and of the thick wheel

E,  by which the three wheels                          and H, are affected.

    " The wheels D, and have each 39 teeth in the machine
            G                                            is
                         E,
the wheel has 37, and H 44 as shown in Fig.                             ;
    " The parallelism of the Earth's axis                                   2.
                                                                                                          ;
                                                         perfect in the ma

chine 192 the motion of the apogee very nearly so the motion of
      ;

the nodes not quite so near the truth, though they will not vary

sensibly therefrom in one year. But they cannot be brought

nearer, unless larger wheels, with higher numbers of teeth, are

used.193

   " In nature, the Moon's apogee goes quite round the ecliptic

in eight years and 312 days, in direction of the Earth's annual

motion and the nodes go round the ecliptic in contrary di
         ;                          is O
                                        P

                                                           a

                                                                         a

                                                                                                         a
rection, in eighteen years and 225 days. In the machine, the

apogee goes round the ecliptic      in eight years and four-fifths

of a year, and the nodes in eighteen years and a half.

"2 fIy this meant that the parallelism does not alter or deviate from givena is
fixed point at great distance, and                       perfect parallel motion. The
                                    therefore

nxis of the Earth does not preserve its parallelism in its revolutions round the
Sun, but makes circle round the pole of the ecliptic in 25920 solar, or 25868
                       a

sidereal years.
      Tho progressive motion of the apogee, and retrograde motion of the nodes,
worked hy wheels 44 and 37 respectively, simply question of "fast and slow
                                    is
                                                   is a
                                                         ;0
                                                                                  is
motion," compared with the wheel 39, whose value         and thus the cause of

the phenomena arising out of the performance of the wheels. For higher num
bers of wheel teeth, see note 189.
200 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   " Notwithstanding the difference of the numbers of teeth in
the wheels F, G, and H, and their being all of equal diameters,
they take tolerably well into the teeth of the thick wheel E,
because they are made of soft wood.194 But if they were made of
metal, the wheel E in Fig. 1, ought to be made of the shape of
E (seen edgewise) in Fig. 2, with very deep teeth : and the

wheels F, G, and H in Fig. 1, of diameters proportioned to their

respective numbers of teeth, as F, G, and H in Fig. 2 ; And then,
the teeth of these three wheels would be of equal sizes with
those of the wheel E wherein they work ; and the motions would
be free and easy, without any pinching or shake in the teeth."
(Vide " The description and use of a new machine called The

          This is undoubtedly the proper method of constructing such a machine :

but as the thick wheel would require to be made up of three distinct wheels, it
could no lunger be called a machine of "five whsels," as it would then have SEVEN
WhEElS in it. To have wheels made of soft wood, so that they might act better,
is a method that cannot be recommended. When orreries of any description what
ever, are to be made, brass will he found the best and most suitable material

for the wheels, &c. The only recommendation in favour of wooden wheels
is is,  that as the teeth in them are generally cut into triangular shape, they
the more readily accommodate themselves to irregularities of the pitch line of           1a
action.

   As formerly noted, we have          inItoubrel(oanwgseesdsiotno  one of these Mechanical Paradox
Orreries, made by Ferguson.                                         his son, the late John Ferguson,
      Esq., after whose death,
                                       came into the possession of James L. Kutherfurd,
                                       1 it                  in February 804, which we here ac

                                                             4$
                                                                     it

                                                                                is
      Esq., Edinburgh, from whom we received
knowledge with thanks.

      The large immoveable circle in this machine made of hard mahogany, and                                           is
      15 incites in diameter, by inch thick. The frame containing the whcel,-work                                          a 2 is
        also of mahogany, Hi inches long,               inches broad, and J-incn thick, held to
gether by four short pillars of the same material. (The fire wheels are all of
brass, and in high numbers).
        Round the edge of the Urge immoveable circle there                                     paper edging inch
                                                                                         is                         1
                                                                                            a

                              in pen and ink printing, the Names of the Months, with
      broad, having on      it,
                                                 is

                                                                                 is
their Divisions, &c. The Sun, in the centre,                                         represented by gilded ball
                                                                                                       is a
inches in diameter. The Earth an ivory hall, having engraven on '24 meri
dian lines, polar, tropical, and equinoctial circles. Surrounding the Earth                                  is it
      mahogany horizon 3J inches in exterior diameter, the surface of which covered

      tic, and its Divisions     exterior to thisis      another circle of               mahogany, lying at            the
      angle of 5J degrees     this represents the     isMoon's orbit -- its                                            and
                            ;                                                                surface         papered,
                               ;
      has printed on it, by pen, figures of the Sun and Moon, aml the usual degrees,
      &c., the exterior diameter of which 5j inches. Directly under the Sun, therea
                                                                                         is          and within them,
        a paper disc, with variety of circles described on                                    it,
      is
                is                                                                                 it
      "J.nattiAnihnmeledlameJtatlfyhnioneuupaaarnprienndylnuot,entbhadayaenrntrdbhdcyiiissrnpcopkialefnecns,te,phtrerhuitnahmCtevoieinnnyng"gjetua/nr*tsch,"teiLionaeinfnnaodtplhlfooeignfwuYetariheaneuerasgtr,oSstgou,--frnratoohpmn"wihsiTJtahh1oen7f 6t.hFT0eeiamrtnMgoeduoF1seooF8orneg0fn's0bu,th.sA,eoivnsneMcac,rledyeundasindninvrientea.Ng.dtelaeywNlyWfodeMtdiootcenohie;totihn.ne"":

                              is,                                                                            1
                                        is ;
                                                                                     is

                                                                                                                       ;

      there no dat«, but as its Tables begin with the year 1760,                                       may be inferred,
        it is
      that would be made about that time. The machine still in excellent condi

      tion and working order, and      is     curiosity.
                                          a
                       JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                                                            201

Mechanical Paradox," pp. 9-- 16 ; also, his " Select Mechanical
Exercises," pp. 57 -- 71.)
   In the year 1755, Ferguson               was                              in Cambridge -- delivering

his course of lectures on Astronomy, Mechanics, &c. As to his

success, we have no accounts ; while there, he frequently visited

the Rev. Professor Ludlam and Mr. Edward Waring, the Mathe

matician ; from the former he received a sketch plan of his
ingenious " Perpetual                                                                                                                                               "
                       Day of               the                              Month  Shifting Apparatus
                                                                                                                                                                  ;

and from the latter, " An Astronomical Problem, with the Rule

for its Solution." As the problem is a curious one, we here give

                                                                                    it,

                                                                                                           ;
it a place, along with another way of solving                                                   by Dr. John

Ford of Bristol.

Mr. Waring's Problem on the Conjunction of the Planets and

Formula for its Solution.195

" The periodical times                      (he, six primary planets being
of
                                        of
given, and supposing them to have been all at once in a line

conjunction with the Sun, to find how much time v:ould
elapse before they were all in a line                                               conjunction with the
                                                                             q, of
Sun again."                                                                      r,
" Let a,
                                                                                     s

                                                                                                 ;

                                                                                               is e

                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                                                    ;;
                       be respectively equal to the periodical
c
                  ;

       b,/
                            c,
                             d,
                      ; ef,,
                                    d
                                                                          ;
                                                                   b
times or revolutions of the six planets about the Sun a being

the longest, or Saturn's period the next longest, or Jupiter's

the next, or Mars's    the next, or the Earth's                                                 the next, or

Venus's and the shortest period of all, which Mercury's
and let p, qp, rqp, srqp, &c., be equal to the difference or

time between the succeeding conjunctions of any two, three,

four, &c., of them. 'Tis evident that                                               (the multipliers)

must be whole numbers, because the numbers of conjunctions

are so.
" The time between the conjunctions of the first two
q

              '

                    I
                                                         q,
                                                     a
                                                              is
                                                                                             is is
                                                                                                     is
£zi=P; that of the first three "^~ -- qp (where n any

--number assumed, to make                   whole number) or, which                                                                                               the
           =a; " being reduced to its lowest denominator,
same,

will be equal to the numerator of that fraction. In the same

135 Mr. Edward Waring, an eminent Mathematician, who afterwards became
           of tin: Mathematics at Cambridge, and                                    the author  of the following
Professor  "Problems Concerning interpolations                               was                General Resolu
works: --                                                                           "On the
                                                                             ;"
Nt"iouPnmrobobfelermAsl;sg"ebinr"aEiOcqanul aFtiinEondqsiuna;g"tiotnhes0:"»Valsu"oeOmsenoPfrtohAeplgeerRtbeiersasoicluoatfliotnhQeuofaftnmtAittiteroasfctitvhee.
                       '.'                                                                                                                                          Powers;"
                                                            ;                                                                                                     Division of
                                                                                                                                                                  Converging
                                                                                                 by
Series," Ice. He died in the year 1798, aged 64 and consequently, in the year
when he met Ferguson in Cambridge, he would be in the 21st year of his age.
202 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

manner, r will be equal to the numerator of the fraction

reduced to its lowest denominator, s will be equal to the numer

ator of the fraction a_.,^' , reduced to its lowest denominator ;
and so on, from the slowest to the quickest revolving bodies in
the system ; by which means, the times of all their conjunctions
may be found." (Ferguson's " Tables and Tracts." Lond., 1767,

pp. 14.1, 142).

Iby "DhrTi.mhJiosthopnrFoFeborlgredum'ssonmm--eatyhpobrdoebfsaoobrlvlySedoalvbibnoygutathtdheieffseasrmaemenetPrmopbeelrteihomodd.----a1s(7S5ef5on.l)t

lows, for which am obliged to my generous friend Mr. John

Ford, Surgeon in Bristol196
   " Let A, B, C, D, E, F, stand for the six planets, beginning

with Saturn, and ending with Mercury; and, a, b, c, d, e,f, be

the times of their periodical revolutions respectively ; Then, by

a known rule,197 the synodical period, or conjunction, of A and

B, will be the time --\ ; and that of B and C will be ^ ; that of

C and D will be        that of D and E will be ; and that of

^E and F will be

   " Now it is obvious, that A and B can never be in conjunc

tion but in the time --b, or some multiple of it ; neither can B
and C be in conjunction but in the time -- , or some multiple

of that time. A, B, and C, will therefore be in conjunction

when "^rb is equal to  where m and n represent two integer

numbers, prime to each other ; which, being respectively multi

plied into           ^and shall make the two products equal. And

these two numbers are easily discovered ; for, by supposition.

is equal to            ; therefore, m n : : : ^~b. Reduced there

Mfore,  and -- . into integers of t he least dimensions (as minutes,

or seconds of time), which shall have the same proportion to

each other as these numbers have ; and you will have the mul

tipliers m and n, and consequently, the synodical period or con

junction of A, B, and C; which we shall call 11. In the same

1>* Mr. John Ford was an eminent Surgeon in Bristol in the miihilc of last
century, "was an excellent Mathematician, and had a general knowledge of the
several branches of Natural and Experimental I'hilosophy, and assisted Mr. Fer
guson in disposing of tickets for his lectures in Bristol, and was altogether a most
worthy man."         (E--xt.AftleerttetrhefropmlanBertiasrtyol   in 1832).
    197 The rule  is,                                           periods are  made  prime, multiply them

together, and then divide by their difference, and the quotient will be the time]
of conjunction. See also Mr. Ford's Explanations in his paper here quoted.
JAMES FERGUSON.                             2o:s

manner may the synodical period of C, D, and E, be investi

gated, which we call S ; then find two prime numbers r and s in

their lowest dimensions, which shall have the same proportion
to each other as the times R and S ; then will r S, or its equal

Sr, give the synodical period, or conjunction, of the five planets

A, B, C, D, and E, which characterize by T. Find lastly, the

^synodical period of E and F, by the rule   which denote by X ;

and the least integer number t, x, in the same proportion to eacb

other as T and X being found, t X or x T will be the synodical
period, or conjunction of the six primary planets A, B, C, D, E, F ;

or the time that must elapse between any conjunction of them
all, and the next succeeding conjunction. Which time, being

divided by the time of the periodical revolution of each
planet, will show how many revolutions each planet has then

made.
    " There are several ways of finding the above-mentioned

prime integer numbers or multipliers ; but the following is very

convenient and easy.                        Multiply the denomi

   " Let j and -d be two of the fractions.

nator of the first into the numerator of the second, and vice

versa ; then strike out both the denominators, by which process

the above fractions become a d and be; which numbers are in

the same proportion as the fractions ; and, if they are prime to
each other, are the numbers required But if they arc not

prime, divide them by their greatest common divisor, in order

to reduce them to their lowest denomination.
    " The reason why these numbers must be prime integers is

plain : for, if they were not so, wc should not have the synodic
period required, but some multiple of it ; and if they were not

integers, we should not have exact multiples of the lower synodic

periods from which we deduce the higher.
   " To facilitate calculations which may be made on these prin

ciples, I shall subjoin the following Table, which shows the an

nual periods of the primary planets, reduced to hours ; and their
synodic periods, taken two by two progressively. But although

the synodical periods of the planets, taken two by two, is so

short., it must not be imagined that the synodical periods of

three planets must be proportionably so too. The synodic

period of the Earth and Venus (by the Table) is 1 year 218 days
17 hours ; and that of Venus and Mercury is 144 days, 12 hours ;
L'04 EXTENDED MEMOIH OF

but the synodical period of these three planets is upwards of

If5,500 years.19s
   " the periods of the three planets be so incommensurate,

how much more so must be the periods of the six revolving

primaries of our system 1 Indeed we here cannot but see and
admire the wisdom and providence of the Supreme Being!

For, had the times of the annual revolutions of the several

planets been more commensurate, the present arrangement of

our system would doubtless have been greatly disturbed by the

conspiring attractions of the six bodies, when they happened to

be in conjunction ; an arrangement which, from the goodness of

the Almighty, we must conclude to be, in its present state, the

best adapted to answer the purposes for which the system was

created."  ........N.me. of the FlsneU.
                   Saturn,
                  Jupiter,             Tl,cir rPe'driu^ceCd?tio ^ho"u"rJs"."0'"
                                             258223 h.= a
                                               103980

           Mars,                          16487

           Earth,                           8766

           Venua                            5393

           Mercury,                         2111

Their synodic periods or conjunctions with each other (as under),

           Names of the planets. Y. 1). H.  Hours.
           ^Saturn and Jupiter, 19 313 10=174076 =

           Jupiter and Mars,  2 So 21= 19593= ~r

           Mars and the Earth, 2 49 10= 18718=,--.

           Earth and Venus,   1 218 17=     14015=£^
                                             3468=^
           Venus and Mercury, 0 144 12=

ins The following is an arithmetical illustration of the process:--
              =For the                     the Earth and Venus,
                                          hours in the Earth's year.
           3B5 days 6
                 choonujrusn=ctio8n766of

           224 do. 17 do.     5393 do. Venus's do.

Multiply these hours together, and then divide by their difference.

47*£8766xf393 =  ftnd ^275088-3378 = 140157 hours for the conjunc-

tion of the Earth and Venus.

           For the conjunction of Venus and Mercury.
           224 days 17 hours = 5393 hours in Venus's year.
           87 do. 28 do. =2111 do.
                                                  Mercury's do.

As before, multiply the hours together, and divide by their difference.

=TT»539^11       and 11384623-3283 = 3468 8 hour, for t> Conjunc

tion of Venus and Mercury-                                                       ^em together,
   Then, as 140157 and 3468 8 are prime to each other, multiply

and reduce to years, &c.
                                                    JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                      203

To illustrate the use of this Table, let it be required to find

the synodical period or conjunction of the Earth, Venus, and

Mercury.                                                                                                                                       and that of
   That of the Earth and Venus 14015 hours

Venus and Mercury 3468 hours

    Therefore, from what has been already laid down, the synodi

cal period of the three planets will be when mx 14015 is equal

to nx3468 ; or when m : n : : 3468 : 14015 ; but these numbers

being integers, and in their lowest terms already, they require no

reduction. Therefore, 3468x14015 gives the synodical period

of the three planets =48604020 hours =5544 years 221 days 12

hours. The reader may proceed to find out the synodic periods

or conjunctions of the rest, according to the foregoing rules." 199
(Vide " Tables and Tracts." Lond., 1767, pp. 141--149).
                           == 5546 13964 years
140157x3468-8                                                                    5546 y. 50d. 53 m. for the conjunc
                                                                                  Or if we take
tion of the Karth, Venus, and                                   X.M3e4r6c8ury=.                                                th=e  rough     60fi6g4u3resyeoaf rsM=r.
Ford, as here given, 1 4015                                                      48604020-^-8766                                     5544

5544 y. '221 d. 11 h. 58 m., or in round numbers, 5544 y. 221 d. 12 h. as above.
   199 This question, in order to be properly treated, ought to have its yearly
periods of revolutions reduced to seconds. About 40 years ago, we reduced the
sidereal revolutions of all the then known planets to seconds, and made them
prime to each other (as by the foregoing rule), and found out, to great minute
ness, the conjunctive period of all the planets. At this distance of time, we still
recollect the tedious operation. But, were the following put, and an answer
demanded, we would not envy the party who proposed to himself the task of
solving -- viz. Suppose Mercury, Venus, the Earth and Moon, Mars, Jupiter
1|and satellites, Saturn and satellites, Uranus and satellites, and Neptune and
    8
         itsatellites, all to be in line of conjunction with the Sun. How much time
would elapse before they were all in conjunctive line againa
        a "i it,The subject of planetary revolutions may be familiarly illustrated55a
                     3                                                                                                         5                         thus --
                                                                                                                                   ;                     3
Suppose two men prolwise to walk round circle, and that one of the men can walk                                                                                   :
                                                                        a                                                                   ?
                                                                                                                                                                       '? 5 ;
mrcoireucenlted--orwicintohmethmeiinnrtueotleasct,iovnethjuevnecoltotihocinetriesi--n gAivsmentihn, euhteoswa. nmdAuftcthheer   starting to walk round the
Rule. -- Multiply the                                           3?               2                                             time will elapse before they
                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                  are prime to each other
                                                                         into each other, and divide by their dif
fleor-ejn-2ce,=       thus, -- 3x5  =tim1e5s,     of velocity       5   = for divisor hence, we have y^, ora
                                                  and --                elapses before they meet.
                           minutes  for the       time that

Again, Suppose, as in the first cote, the times of revolution arc                                                                                        and

minutes, and that both men start from given point to walk round the circle
                                                                                 a

in contrary directions -- how                       bt-hmefesiuncgtihmtphertesiimmffeeorratcwotidooeuinvalacidshlore,eolaxt--hppserteerh.su--ssbio,eMnfo3--ruexlt5rieptd=hluyecey1dt5h, ,beoa1ttnh5imd-^em83s+e=to5f
Rule -- the numbers and
                           3

r=evolufotiron         together, and add                                         a
                      divisor therefore,
                        ;                                       is

     minutes,         or in minute 52^ seconds, for the time of                                                                 conjunctive              mmoereet. in--g
when going            round the said circle in contrary direc tions.                                                           One example
                           1                                                                                                   ;
                             a                                                                                                       a
The mmute-hand of watch revolves round the dial-plate in an hour the hour-
hand     inaafnted1r21l2ehaohvuoirnusgr.s,thaSenudpXpIoI--s.e,  they are exactly in conjunction at                                    if                 ;XII. o'clock;
when,                                                           will these two hands again meet?                                                                  2,
                                                                12 = 11 hence, we have                                                            : is,                3, ?Here we have
   hour                                                                                                                        that                                          4,
1                                                                                                                                                        the two hands
                        is,                                                                                                                    11 60 m. :: 12 ---
                                 2,
                                      3,
                                           4,
                                                5, 1
                                                     it

                                                                      ;
                                                                                        1
come into conjunction 11 times in 12 bom's. Therefore,
60 x 12 = 720-=-ll = 65,* minutes, thetime that must elapse before the two hands
                        they meet at 5,*, minutes past o'clock and by multiplying the
meet, that                                   4c., will give the number of minutes past

0-f,r minutes by
206 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   One of our notes informs us that " Ferguson was of a serious

turn of mind ;-- besides writing on his favourite sciences, his pen

was not unfrequently employed on theological subjects, explain
ing hard questions, or in refutation of infidel opinions." He

wrote at least papers on the following topics :-- 1st, " On the
Existence of Light before the Creation of the Sun." 2d, "On
Hie going back of the Sun on the Sun-Dial of Aiuiz." 3d, " On
the Name and Number of tlie Apocalyptic Beast ; " and " On
the Birth and CruciJixio,n of Christ." Of the two first men

tioned papers, we can find no trace ; but we were successful in
obtaining copies of the two last papers, from the original in the
possession of our late friend, Mr. Upcott, Islington, London,
who, when we were on a visit to him in 1831, kindly allowed
us to take transcripts of them. Paper No. 3 will be found
under date 1759. The following is a copy of No. 4 paper :

 "On the Birth and Crucifixion of Christ. -- The Years

of our Saviour's Birth and Crucifixion ascertained, and the

Darkness at the time of the Crucifixion proved to be Super

natural.

   The Vulgar Era of Christ's birth was never settled till the

year 527, when Dionysius Exiguus, a Roman Abbot, fixed it to

the end of the 4713th year of the Julian Period, which was four
years too late. For our Saviour was born before the death of
Herod, who sought to kill him as soon as he heard of his birth.
And according to Josephus (B. XVII., ch. 8), there was an
eclipse of the Moon, in the time of Herod's last illness ; which

Eclipse appears, by our Astronomical Tables, to have been in

the year of the Julian Period 4710, March 13th, at 3 hours past

midnight at Jerusalem. Now, as our Saviour must have been

born some months before Herod's death, since in the interval

he was carried into Egypt, the latest time in which we can fix
the true Era of his birth is about the end of the 4709th year of

the Julian Period.

and 5 o'clock, when they meet ufter these' hours, in the 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th revolu
ttmPhi-ofmenrrsuem,tfeoin4sreuc.,tp,ea\ssio,traf%lXatesIrIf~.o,1lloo?w'Swch8lsoicch:ka--n;idTsahl7s1eo2r,Oheo-^6ua66rr0e60R:6-6f0c=0 m:m:1ini7n,u2^ut0tees?ms--rifno7ouu2rt0netdhsxet=6h0teim=deia4ol3-hfp2ol0afu0itrr-ess1t-6;o6mf0theaae=twtinai6sgt,>ch,aosrft;

the minute and hour-hand after they leave X 11. These examples and rules are
given to familiarise the subject of planetary motion, and it is to be hoped that,
to some, they may prove useful on certain occasions.
                                                      (See. note 59).
                         JAMES FERGUSON.  207

    Concerning the time of our Saviour's entering upon his

public ministry (which may be called the time of his appear
ance, because, till then, he was not publicly known, so as to be

talked of), and also concerning the time of his death, there is a

remarkable prophecy in the IXth Chapter of the Book of Daniel,
from the 24th verse to the end ; which is in our English transla
tion as follows :--

    Ver. 24. Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people,
and upon thy holy city, to finish tl1e transgression, and to

make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity,
and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up lhe

vision and 'prophecy, and to anoint the most Holy.
   Ver. 25. Know therefore and. understand, that from the

going forth of tl1e commandment to restore and to build Jeru
salem, unto the Messiah the Prince shall be seven weeks ; and

threescore and two weeks the street shall be built again, and

tlie wall, even in troublous times.

    Ver. 26. A nd after threescore and two weeks shall Messiah

be cut off, but not for himself: and the people of the prince

that shall come, shall destroy the city and the sanctuary, and
the end thereof shall be with a flood, and unto the end of thje
war desolations are determined.

   Ver. 27. A nd l1e shall confirm, the covenant with many for
one week : and in the midst of the week he shall cause tl1e
sacrifices and the oblation to cease, and for the overspreading
of abominations he shall make it desolate, even until tlie con

summation, and that determined shall be poured upon the

desolate.

   In the Hebrew, there are no stops nor pointings to any

words or sentences ; and in the above translation, one part of

the 25th verse is most injudiciously pointed with a semicolon

at seven weeks ; which ought to run thus,-- seven weeks and
threescore and two weeks.

   In the 24th verse, what we have rendered prophecy, is

Iprophet in the original ; and in some translations, which have

procured from those who understand the Hebrew very well,
instead of vision and propliecy, it is rendered visions aml

prophets.                we have   it the midst of the week, all
                         procured  render it the half part of the
   In ver. 27th, where

the translations 1 have
208 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

week ; which may be taken either for the first or last part

of it.

In the same verse, where we have      And he shall confirm
it,

   A
           it

                                  it it

                                                                     it,
                                                                                     is
                                                                                                 a

                                                                                 of
the covenant with many for one week; some translations render
        nd in one week a covenant shall be confirmed with many.
Now let the whole be put together, agreeable to this transla

tion, without dividing         into verses (which only modern

invention), but pointing here and there for the sake of read

ing, and will run thus,--

Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and thy

holy city, to finish the transgressions and to make an end
sins; and to make reconciliation for iniquity, aiul to bring
in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the visions and

prophets, awl to anoint the most holy* Know therefore, and

understand, that from the going forth the commandment to
restore and build Jerusalem, unto the Messiah the prince, shall
                                      of
be seven weeks and reescore and two weeks the street shallof

be built again, and the wall, even in troublous imes.i And
          ;                                   :
                is                                 f

after threescore and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not; th
for himself. (And the people the prince that shall come shull
destroy the city and sanctuary, and the end thereof shall beof of
with a flood and unto tlui end        the war desolat ions are
determined). A nd in one week a covenant shall be confirmed
with many, and in half part the week HE shall abolish the
                                              %

sacrifices and offerings. And for the overspreading                                                                  §

                                                                                                                         ; of
abominations he shall make desolate even unto consuming

and that which               determined shall be poured upon the de

solate.

'Tis evident that the first part of this prophecy relates to

the coming of Christ to his being put to death, not for himself,
but for the sins of mankind,   by  which great sacrifice he was to

put an end to all other sacrifices and offerings; to his introduc

ing the righteousness of ages, and sealing up, or putting an

end to prophecies.           And that the latter part mentions the

destruction of Jerusalem, in very emphatic and striking
§Jt
manlier.                                                a
                                                                                             J-
                                                                                                                 F.
* Some translate this the holy of holies, and Mr. Purver,  the very  holy one.
  Bv most translators, in the straight next of timei.
  The Messiah.

   Whig, in the Hebrew language.
        JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                   209

   In the seventh chapter of Ezra, we have an account of a
very ample and full commission (or commandment) which was
given hy King Artaxerxes (Artaxerxes Longimanus || ) to
Ezra, to go up to Jerusalem, in order to repair that city, and
restore the state of the Jews ; and that Ezra took his journey
on the first day of the first month, viz. the month Nisan, which
began about the vernal equinox. And on the 14th day of that
month (reckoned from the New Moon, at which the month

began) the passover was always kept ; for Josephus expressly
says, ' the passover was kept on the 14th day of the month
Nisan, according to the Moon, when the Sun was in Aries.' %
And the Sun always enters the sign Aries at the time of the

vernal equinox.

   This commandment was given in the 7th year of Arta
xerxes' a reign, and that year -- according to Ptolemy's canon, the
rectitude of which was scarce ever called in question --was the
4256th year of the Julian period ; and from the vernal equinox
in that year, we are to count the above-mentioned seventy weeks

to the death of Christ. For, as the accomplishment of the pro

phecy must end with the expiation of sin, we cannot suppose

these weeks to end at any other time.

   But, if we count many revolutions of 70 common weeks,
from the time of the Jewish passover in the year of the Julian

period 4256, we shall find that no Messiah or Saviour did ap
pear on Earth within that space of time : nor will these reckon
ings lead us from one passover to another. And it is certain,
from the four Gospels, that Christ was crucified at the time of
the passover ; and St. John, chap, xviii., ver. 28, is so particular,

as to inform us that our Saviour was crucified on the very day

that the Passover was to be eaten by the Jews, who would

not defile themselves by mixing with the multitude early in the
morning, at the time of his trial. From these circumstances it
is plain that these prophetic weeks mean something very dif

ferent from the weeks by which we commonly reckon.

   In the Old Testament, we read of weeks of years, as well of

weeks of days. For, as every seventh day was to be a Sabbath

for man, on which he was to rest from his labour, so every
seventh year was to be a Sabbath for the land, in which it was

|| In the Hook of Esther he is callcd Ahosuerus.  J.
% Lib.  i.,
                              2

                                                                                      F.
        cap. 10.

                  D
210 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

to rest from tillage. Let us therefore take these 70 weeks to

be weeks of years, making 490 years in all ; and the reckoning

will lead us from the Passover in the year of the Julian period

4256, to the Passover in the year 474b", which was the 33d year

of our Saviour's ag©e,' accounted from the vulg©ar era of his

birth.

   It is expressly foretold in this prophecy, that from the time

of the commandment's being given out to restore and build

Jerusalem, to the Messiah the prince, (or to the time of his
appearing in his public character) there would be seven weeks
and threescore and two weeks, or 69 weeks in all : the first

seven of which, being the straitest ur shortest of the times, con

sisting of 49 years, we may very well allot to the repairing of

Jerusalem ; after which, there should be threescore and two

weeks, or 434 years, to the public appearance of the Messiah :

and then there remained only one week, or seven years, for the

public ministry ; which, I apprehend, is meant by confirming

the covenant with many.

  IBut as some of the translations which have procured, say,
concerning that week, A nd in one week a covenant shall be

confinned with many; and all of them have and in half
                         of is

                                                       it,
                                                                 it,

                                                          it
part the week (which might be either the first or last half of
it)
       of
    He shall abolish the sacrifices and offerings; does not
                         brought in for the whole of the
appear that the Messiah
seventieth week, but only for one half of in confirming (or

establishing) the new and everlasting covenant of the Gospel;

by  which, fhs righteousness ages, mentioned in the hist verse

of the prophecy, seems to be plainly meant.
   And when we consider that Christ's messenger, John the

Baptist, preached so long before Christ took the public minis

try upon himself, as that he acquired great fame in many coun

tries around, which could not be done in a short time, we may

believe that the last verse of the prophecy allots the first half

of the seventieth week, or three years and a half, to the time of

Johns preaching; at the end of which time he baptized Christ,
who was then entering into the thirtieth year of his age--
according to St. Luke -- and then Christ took his public minis

try upon himself for the remaining half of the seventieth week
                                    by
at the end of which he was cut off
                                                                                          ;
                                    the wicked and self-

hardened Jews, and so put a virtual end to all their sacrifices
                JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                             211

and offerings ; which finally ended with, the destruction of their

city and temple about 37 years after.
   So that, in the first place, taking the whole of the prophecy

together, as in ver. 25, and then dividing it into four different
periods or parts as above-mentioned, it will very naturally run
thus,--

From the time of Ezra's receiving  the Com-                                      ]                       Weeks. Years,
   mandment to repair Jerusalem,   until the                                     >                           70 or 490

   expiation of sin by Christ,  .... )                                           } / ( / ) > 7,)                     or 49
For the time of these repairs,                                                                               62 or 434
From the finishing of these repairs to the                                             7\
   coming of Christ by his messenger, John                                                          £                or
                                                                                                       3j
the Baptist,                                                                                                      or 3i
From that time to the end of ohn's ministry,
and the baptism of Christ,a

                        /
From thence to the end of Christ's ministry,

by his death on the cross,

                                      In all, 70 or 490

For a very full illustration of this matter, refer the reader
                                                                                    I

                                                                                                             ,
to Dr. Prideaux Connection of the Histories of the Old and

New Testament.

    The beginning of these seventy weeks of years being found

to be the year of the Julian period 4256, at the time of the

Jewish Passover, their ending must have been at the Passover
in the year of the Julian period 4746, in the 33d year after the
year of Christ's birth and consequently, according to this pro
a

                  ;
                     ;
                               ;

                             it

                                                                ;
                                                                              ;
phecy, our Saviour was crucified in the 4746th year of the

Julian period.
   "lis plain from all the four Gospels, that the Crucifixion

was on Friday because           was on the day next before the

Jewish Sabbath and, as above-mentioned, on the day the Pass

over was to be eaten (at least) by many of the Jews.
   The Jewish year consisted of twelve months, as measured

by the Moon, which contains 354 days to which they either

added 11 days every year, in order to make their years keep pace

with the Sun's course of 365 days or 30 days in three years.
So that, although their months were lunar, their years were

solar. And they always celebrated the Passover on the four

teenth day of the first lunar month, reckoning from the first
time of their seeing the New Moon which, especially at that
                                   ;

time of the year, might be when she was about 24 hours old                                                                  ;
-21-2                EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

and consequently, their, fourteenth day of the month fell upon

the day of full Moon ; and, according to Jusephus, they 'always
kept the Passover at the time of the full Moon next after the
vernal equinox. But the full-Moon day on which our Saviour
was crucified fell on Friday. And as 12 lunar months want 11
days of 12 solar mouths, the Passover full Moons (as well as all
others) fall 11 days back every year; which, being more than a
week by four days, makes that in a few neighbouring years,

there cannot be two Passover full Moons on the same day of
the week. And when this anticipation would have made the

Passover full Moon fall before the equinoctial day, they set a
whole month forward, to have at the first full Moon after the
       it                                                   it

                                ;

                               I is

                                                it,

                                           it it
vernal equinox which puts off the same day of the week

again.

The dispute among Chronologers, about the year of our

Saviour's crucifixion, limited within four or five years at most.

And certainly was in the year in which the Passover full Moon

fell on a Friday. And find, by calculation, that the only Pass

over full Moon which fell on a Friday, from the 20th year after

our Saviour's birth to the 40th, was in the 474-6th year of the

Julian period, which was the 33d year of his age, reckoning

from the beginning of the year next after that of his birth,

according to the vulgar era but the 37th, reckoning from the
                     it ;
true era thereof; and the said Passover full Moon was on the

third day of April.

And when we reflect on what the Jews told him, some time

before his death, (John viii. 57) thou art not yet fifty years'
old' we must confess that should seem much likelier to have

been said to a person near forty, than to one but just turned of

thirty. And we may easily suppose that St. Luke expressed
himself only in round numbers, when he said that Christ was

baptized about the SOth year  of                     is  age when he began his
                                                         ;
                                  h

public ministry as our Saviour himself did, when he said he;

should lie three days and three nights in the graw.

And thus we have an Astronomical demonstration of the

truth of this ancient prophecy, seeing that the prophetic year

of the Messiah's being cut off was the very same with the As

tronomical. Besides, we have the testimony of a heathen author,

which agrees with the same year. For Phhgon informs us,

that in the fourth year of the 202d Olympiad (which was the
                             JAMKS FKROUSON.                   213

4746th year of the Julian period, and the 33d year after the

year of Christ's birth) there was the greatest eclipse of the Sun
that ever was known, for the darkness lasted three hours in the

middle offlie day, which could be no other than the darkness
on the crucifixion-day ; as the Sun never was totally hid above

four minutes of time,        from any part of   the Earth, by the inter
                                                been an Astronomer, he
position of the Moon.        If Phlegon had

would have known that the said darkness could not have been

occasioned by any regular eclipse of the Sun, as the Moon was
then in the opposite side of the heavens, on account of her being

full. And as there is no other body than the Moon that ever

comes between the Sun and the Earth, it is evident that the

darkness at the crucifixion was miraculous, being quite out of

the ordinary course of nature.

There have been great difficulties about our Saviour's eating

Ithe Paschal lamb on the evening of the day before it was eaten

by the Jews. But apprehend this difficulty may be easily

removed, when we consider that the Jews began their day in the

evening, and ended it in the next following evening. So that,

although it was on a different day, according to our way of reck
oning, it was still the. same day according to theirs. And we do

not find that they brought in his eating the lamb on the

Thursday evening, as any accusation againt him, which they

would have been glad to do, if they could have made a handle
of it for that purpose. J. Ferguson, 5th August, 1755." (See

Ferguson's Astronomy, Sect. 395; " Tables and Tracts," pp. 180
                      his "
--194, 1st  Edit. ;  Book    "Syplpla. b1u5s4,  of Lectures,"  1763 ; and MS.
" Common    Place                                155.

                                                      1756.

    We have no memoranda of Ferguson for the first months
of the year 1756, but it is likely that he would be busy with his
Astronomical and other lectures, and also attending to his old
profession of limner. He would likewise have much of his at
tention devoted to correcting the proof-sheets of his great work,
" Astronomy Explained upon Sir Isaac Newton's Principles,"

which was then in the press, --as also to the examination of the
many engravings which illustrate that work. In the midst of

these multifarious engagements, he would hear, with great
regret, of the death of one of his earliest friends and patrons
214 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

when he first came to London, viz. that of Sir Dudley Ryder,

who died on 25th May, 1756. It will be remembered that Sir

Dudley, shortly after Ferguson's arrival in London, purchased

from him his small orrery made with ivorywheels. (See note 70).

   Ferguson's Astronomy. -- This, "the great work of Fergu
son" appears to have been published in June 1756 ; there are no

advertisements to be found regarding it in any of the newspapers
or magazines of 1756, before July, although there are many to

be found in July, and for many months afterwards. The ear
liest notice of it we have seen is in Martin's " Miscellaneous
Correspondence" for July, 1756 ; it is briefly announced thus :

       " Astronomy Explained upon Sir Isaa£ Newton's Principles, in 4to,
       16s., sewed. By James Ferguson.''

               Martin's Miscellaneous Correspondence for July 1756.

We have not been able to get a sight of the first edition, but

have a copy of the third edition in 4to. Lond., 1764'. It is a

volume of 354 pages, exclusive of 10 pages of index-matter ;

and a few pages at the commencement, embracing Dedication

and Contents, and 18 folding engravings ; sewed, 16s., bound in

calf, 18s. It was published by A. Millar, in the Strand, London,

who afterwards printed his other works, and became one of Fer

guson's most intimate friends.2""

   The following is the Title-page of this work :--

" Astronomy Explained upon Sir Isaac Newton's Principles, and
made easy to those who have not studied Mathematics ; to which are
added, a Plain Method of finding the Distances of all the Planets,
from the Sun, by the Transit of Venus over the Sun's Disc, in the
year 1761 ; An Account of Mr. Horror's Observation of the Transit
of Venus in the year 163!) : and of the Distances of all the Planets

from the Sun, a.i deduced from Observations of the Transit in the
year 1761. By James Ferguson.

Heb. xi. 3. The Worlds were framed by the word of (Jod.
Job xxvi. 7. He hangeth the Earth upon nothing.

              18. By his Spirit he garnished the Heavens.

(Illustrated with Engravings.)  Loudon : Printed for A. Millar, in
the Strand, mtx i'i.vi."

   Many writers justly esteem this treatise on Astronomy as his

  2"" Mr. Andrew Millar, a celebrated publisher in London, " was of Scotch

parentage, and literally the artificer of his own fortune. By persevering indus
try, and a happy train of successive patronage and connection, he became one of
the most emment booksellers and publishers of the eighteenth century." He
died at Kew Green, near London, June 8th, 1768, aged til years, and was buried
in the cemetery at Chelsea.
JAMES FERGUSON.                                                     215

" liappiest effort," and his " great work." It at once took a high

position, and, for a great many years, superseded all other

treatises on Astronomy. It still continues to be held in high

esteem ; and the edition by Dr. Brewster sustains its reputation.
    Ferguson's Astronomy has been translated into several lan

guages, -- and in our own country, it has passed through a great

many editions. The following are the dates of the publication
of the various editions, in quarto and octavo, as far as we have

been able to ascertain, viz. 1756 -- 1757 -- 1764 -- 1770 -- 1772 --

1773--1785-- 1790-- 1794-- 1799-- 1809-- 181 1--1821. The
work is dedicated to the Earl of Macclesfield, who was then
President of the Royal Society of London. The annexed is
a copy of the Dedication :

     " To the Right Honourable Georoe, Earl of Macclesfield, Vis

       count Parker of Ewelme, in Oxfordshire ; and Baron of Macclesfield,
       in Cheshire, President of the Royal Society of London, Member of the
       Academy of Sciences at Paris, of the Imperial Academy of Sciences
       at St. Petersburg, and one of the Trustees of the British Museum,
       Distinguished by his Generous Zeal for Promoting every Branch of
        Useful Knowledge, this Treatise of Astronomy is Inscribed, with
       the most profound respect, by his Lordship's most obliged, and most
       humble servant, James Ferguson."

Our notes inform us, that the publication of his Astronomy

" at once placed Ferguson in a high position in the temple
of fame ; that his " name, as an Astronomical writer, was now
                                              "
established, and held in universal  respect      and  that  "  his  friend
                                             ;

ship was now eagerly sought after, and was highly appreciated

by men of learning and science." Even artists appear to have

found him out, as one or two likenesses of him were done this

year (1756).
    One of these likenesses, in oil, is still extant, and in the pos

session of Mrs. Thomson, Nethercluny, Mortlach, Banffshire.

The canvas on which this likeness is painted is 23 inches by 19

inches. Mrs. Thomson has very kindly sent us, through the
Rev. Mr. Annand of Keith, an excellent photograph, taken from
this portrait. On the back of the likeness is written, " Painted
by John Beatson, 1756." This appears to be one of the ear
liest of Ferguson's likenesses; but it differs from any we
have seen ; both as to physiognomy, and its extreme plainness

of attire.
   According to an entry in an old " Day Book," which belonged
216 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

to Mr. Nairne, Optician, London,201 we find, that in December,

1756, Ferguson purchased from him an Air-Pump, with an ex

                          it,
                                                          is
tensive apparatus belonging to for the sum of £32, in order

to add the subject of Pneumatics to his Course of Lectures.

An engraving of this Air-Pump and Apparatus                                                     to be found
in Ferguson's " Lectures on Select Subjects in Mechanics, Hy

drostatics, Pneumatics, and Optics."

                                                      1757.

   Ferguson's Residence. -- It appears that Ferguson, early

this year, removed from Broad Street, Golden Square, to Duke

Street, Bloomsbury, London. In Kent's Lmdon Directory for

1757, we find

         'James Ferguson, Astronomer, Duke Street, Bloomsbury."

Accident to Ferguson. -- Sometime early in the month of

February, 1757, he accidentally got his right leg severely

bruised; but how, when, or where,                                       not known. The
                                                                        is
                                                                            is

                                                                                             a
only notice we have of this accident given in letter which

he sent to the Rev. Mr. Birch, which we subjoin. The orig
inal letter among the " Birch Letters," British Museum, Vol.
9,
     p.

                   is
145, and Museum, No. 4308.

" Rkv. Sir,

                               have lately had the misfortune (by accident) of bruising
my right leg, and regardless of any ill consequence, took little notice of
              I           a
till lately.         I
                                            I

                                                                                  a

                                                              I I is

                                                                                        it
              have since applied to Surgeon, who assures me there no real

danger.  to   However,    --as shoims eskdiallysalcoonnefin(eumndeenrt  God) must effect cure,     must
submit        his orders                                                 under the circumstances.    was

in hopes should have been able to wait upon you to-morrow, but find now,
I
         I
must be obliged to your goodness to take the fatigue upon your own hands.

                      Rev. Sir,

                                    Your most obliged, obedient servant,
                                                                            James Ferguson."

Feb. 20/A, 1757.
       To the Reverend Mr. Birch,
               at his lodgings,
                      in Norfolk Street, by y« Strand.

PmEque1unm0at1tpoMMr;ia"ar.kl earnE,Tdde,lweinsacroCdp1'eo7r8Nn0b,a"iilrlin",neA,L7oT7nr7de,oacnte"i.lsAeebnroaInnAtecEdc1loe77ucO1tnrp,tictiihcteyia.E"npr,upbclraiMsimmhr.elednNPisah"iirlonAmsenaodpwehAaiccswcaoioltunhnetaIonnfstFretuihrre-

guson's most intimate friends. From Mr. Nairne he purchased the greater part
of his Philosophical Apparatus. Ferguson, in his Treatise on Electricity,
              in                                                                                   A of
                     ;
                                   1
                                        a
                                                            of

                                                                                                   p.
                                                                                                        9,
JAMES FERGUSON.  217

  Whirling Table. --Early in 1757 he made a very efficient

Whirling Table, with an extensive apparatus for demonstrating
   " The Propensity of Matter to keep the state it is in.-- That

Bodies moving in orbits, have a tendency to fly out of these
orbits.--That Bodies move faster in small orbits than in large

ones.---The Centrifugal Forces. -- That a Double Velocity in the
same Circle is a balance to a quadruple power of gravity. --
Kepler's Problem. -- The absurdity of the Cartesian Vortexes. --
That if one body move round another, both of them must move
round their common centre of gravity. -- That the squares of
the periods of the planets are as the cubes of their distances. --
That the Central Forces are inversely as the squares of the
periods ;-- also, a demonstration of the cause of the Tides, and

the motion of the Earth."

   The following description and figure of the Whirling Table

are by Ferguson.
   " The Whirling Table is a machine contrived for showing ex

periments of Central Forces, &c. A A is a strong frame of wood,

B a winch or handle fixed on the axis C of the wheel D, round
which is the cat-gut string F, which also goes round the small

                                             Ferguson's Whirling Table.

wheels G and K, crossing between them and the great wheel D.
On the upper end of the axis of the wheel G, above the frame,

strongly recommends Klectrical Machines --he says, " The Electrical Machine
mostly in me is made in the yrcatf.it perfection by Mr. Edward Nairne, Optician,
aJibannemdrC,eosM1,r7an7tt6hho,eilmlM,ware.LtiocfNnaindladoirnnInM.e"s,rt.ruinNmAaes1irn7nft6oe3r,mMceal"arklseystroednl;eo"ataersandn,, doFnpeeraratgcoutFfisecoartnghlluyesa, opsnpitx'hrseen"ftubpincuaeesldirlnaelb,hseissa2r3oeedrflsd.OeNps"ottvicesiSoamnene,

account of Ferguson's funeral under date November 23, 1776.
218 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

is fixed the rouud board to which the bearer M
                      is                    it                     may be
                         (/,
                                                 is
                           B
                                                          S
                                 is
                                                          it X

                                                                      is
NTZ;fastened occasionally, and removed when  not wanted. On

the axis of the wheel H fixed the bearer           and                    easy

to see that when the winch            turned, the wheels and bearers

are put into whirling motion.a
   " Each bearer has two wires W, X, and Y.
                                             Z,  fixed and screw

ed tight into them at the ends by nuts on the outside. And

when these nuts are unscrewed, the wires may be drawn out in

order to change the balls U and       V,    which slide upon the wires

by means of brass loops, fixed into the balls, which keep the

balls up from touching the wood below them. A strong silk

line goes through each ball, and fixed to at any length from
                                      ; is  it
the centre of the bearer to its end, as occasion requires, by aa

                                                                 S
nut-screw at the top of the ball the shank of the screw goes

into the centre of the ball, and presses the line against the un

der side of the hole that goes through. The line goes from
;

                          a
                               a it
the ball, and under small pulley fixed in the middle of the

bearer then up through socket in the round plate (see and
T) in the middle of each bearer then through slit in the
                                      P) ;
middle of the square top (O and of each tower, and going
over a small pulley on the top, comes down again the same

way, and    at last fastened to the upper eiicl of the socket
            is

                  S
                                  T,
fixed in the middle of the above-mentioned round plate.

These plates,    and                  have each four round holes near

their edges for letting them slide up and down upon the wires

which make the corners of each tower. The balls and

plates being thus connected, each by its particular line,
T
           N
               if
                                                                                     S
                                                                                        it

                                                                                                       O is
plain that     the balls be drawn outward, or towards the ends

M and of their respective bearers, the round plates and
   will be drawn up to the top of their respective towers

and P.
    " There are several brass weights, some of two ounces, some

of three, and some of four, to be occasionally put with the

towers and upon the round plates and T; each
O                                           S
           a P,                                          it,
                                                               is
weight having round hole in the middle of for

going upon the sockets or axes of the plates, and

slit from the edge to the hole, (as in the annexedit

figure) for allowing to be slipped over the foresaid line whicha

comes from each ball to its respective plate." -- For full account
of the experiments exhibited by this Whirling Table, we refer
                       JAMES FERGUSON.                       219

the reader to his "Lectures on Select Subjects in Mechanics,
Hydrostatics, Pneumatics, and Optics."

   Astronomical Clock. -- In the year 1757, Ferguson con

trived and made an Astronomical Clock for " Showing the

Equation of Time -- The apparent Daily Motions of the Sun,
Moon, and Stars ; with the Times of their Rising, Southing, and

Setting."

   The following is his description of this Clock :--

  I" About ten years ago,2"2 made a wooden model of a Clock

for showing the apparent diurnal motions of the Sun and Stars,

with the times of their rising and setting for every day of the

year ; and the days of the months all the year round, without

any need of shifting by hand in the short months, as is always
Idone in common clocks.
                         copied the dial-plate of this model

from a clock that Mr. EUicott had made for the King of Spain ; '"a

but although Mr. Ellicott showed me the whole inside of the

Iclock, did not ask him what the numbers of teeth in the
Iwheels of it were, although, am convinced, he would have told
Ime, if had ; nor do I, in the least, remember how many wheels

there were in the uncommon or Astronomical part of it ; and so

I set about contriving wheels and numbers for performing the

like motions.

The Dial-plate contains twice twelve hours, and within the

circle of hours there is a large opening in the plate, a little

elliptical ; the edge of this opening serves for a horizon.

Below the Dial-plate, and seen through the large opening

it,
    is
        a

                ;
in flat plate on which the equator, ecliptic, and tropics,

are drawn and all the stars of the first, second, and third mag

nitudes are laid down, that are visible in the horizon (of Madrid
in Mr. Ellicott's, and of London in mine), according to their

right ascensions and declinations the centre of the plate being
                             is

                                   ;
the north pole. The ecliptic cut out into a narrow groove in

the plate and small Sun slides in the groove by pin, and
it                                      a
            ;                                               is
                    a
carried round by a wire fixed in the axis, which comes a little

way out through the centre of the plate. The edge of this plate

   212 The description of this Clock taken from Ferguson's "Tables aml Tracts,"is
first published in London in 1767. He, thus writing the description in 1767,
says was contrived and made by him "about ten years ago," that is, in 1757.

   ao3 Kegarding Mr. John Ellicott, one of Ferguson's earliest friends in London,
see note 78.
220 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

is divided into the months and days of the year, and the Sun's
wire shows the days of the months in these divisions. This star-

plate goes round in a sidereal day, making 3C6 revolutions in a

year; in which time, the Sun makes 365, and consequently

shifts a division or day of the month every 24 hours.
    A small wire is stretched from over the centre of the sidereal
XIIplate to the upper
                                                 on the fixed Dial-plate. This wire is

for the meridian.

   When the Sun, or any Star, comes to the Eastern edge of the
horizon, the hour-index is at the time of rising of the Sun or
Star, for the day of the year, pointed to by the wire, that car

ries the Sun ; and when the Sun or Star comes to the western

edge of the horizon, the hour-index is at the time of its setting.

The Sun always comes to the meridian at the instant of the

solar noon ; but every star comes sooner to the meridian every

day, than it did on the day before, by 3 minutes 55 seconds 54
thirds of mean solar time, as it revolves from the meridian to the

meridian again in 23 hours 56 minutes 4 seconds 6 thirds.204

    When any star is on the meridian in the clock, the star

which it represents is on the meridian in the heavens; the time

whereof is seen by the hour-index on the Dial-plate. And, as

the stars have their revolutions on the plate, one may look at
the clock at any time, and see what stars are then above the

horizon, what stars are then on the meridian, and what stars

are then rising or setting.

    My contrivance for showing these motions and phenomena,

in the model, consists of no more than two wheels and two
pinions, as follows :--

    The wheels are of equal diameters, and so are the pinions ;

the numbers of teeth are 61 in one wheel, and 73 in the other.

The pinions are both fixed on one axis, the one having 20
leaves and the other 24. 204 The wheel of 73 teeth is fixed to

the back of the sidereal plate, and the axis of the wheel of 61

comes through the wheel of 73, and through the sidereal plate,

and carries the wire round on which the Sun slides in the eclip

tic groove, and also the hour-hand on the Dial-plate.

    204 The true period of a sidereal revolution is 28 h. 56 m. 4 s. 5 thirds 26
fourths, or in 23-93446967 hours.
                                                 contrivance for showing  the motions and
in  205  Fmerogdueslo, ncosanyssisttehdatofhis"  no more than two wheels    and two pinions  phenomena
    his                                                                                       ; properly
speaking, what he calls pinions of 20 and 24, are in reality wheels ; therefore, the
                               JAMES FERGUSON.                             221

    The wheel of 61 teeth turns the pinion of 20, and the pinion

of  24,  ;(--fix(eads  on the  same axis with  that of 20) turns the wheel
of  73                 shown   in the annexed  figures which represent the

arrangement of the wheel-work).
    Now, if the wheel of 61 teeth be turned round in 24

hours, and carry the Sun and hour hand, the wheel of 73

teeth will be turned round in 23 hours 56 minutes 4 seconds

         Plan of the Wheel-work of Ferguson's Soiar and Sidereal Clock.

         Section of the Wheel-work of Fergusons Solar aml Sidereal Clock.

6 thirds.206 And so, the sidereal plate will make just 366
revolutions, in the time that the Sun makes 365.

   Mr. Ellicott had the prettiest, and most simple contrivance

lnotious are exhibited by an addition of four wheels to the common clock move
ment.

                                                          are--73    X--   ^=--1 460
                                                                 61  x24        140-4
   206 These wheels are not derived from            they

= = J =and if 1464 : 24 h. : : 1460 ? 1 460 X 24
                               a natural root,  as

                                 35040 -=-1464 = 23 93442623 h. , or 23 h.

56 m. 3 s. 56 thds. 3 fourths 56 fifths, and so on. Ferguson oalls the period arising
from these wheels, 23 h. 56 m. 4 s. 6 thirds, which is 10 thirds more than the

wheels really produce.
   The true apparent diurnal revolution of the stars is accomplished in 23 h.
66m. 4-OUOti b., or in 23-93446967 h., or » i:g046SoJ5. which, on being reduced
Htlby continuous fractions, as shown in several preceding notes, we obtam the
fractions \. m-                tittt. tt-RSi.   These fractions are prime

and cannot be reduced, which renders them useless for wheel-work ; but we may
          222 KXTKNDKD MEMUIK OF

          I ever saw, in his clock, for showing the difference between

equal and solar time (generally termed the equation of time)
on all the different days of the year. He generously allowed

Ime to copy that part into my model, and have quite concealed

          it within one of my wheels, not to show how it is done unless

          he publishes an account of                                     The Sun, by that simple con
                                                         it
                                                             is it.

                                                                                   a
          trivance, even in my model, comes as much sooner or later to

          the meridian, than when                                        noon by well regulated clock,

          as the Sun the heavens does, at all the different times of thein

          year, excepting the four days on which the time of noon shown

          by  the Sun and clock ought to coincide and then there no
                                                is it                                                                        is
                                                                                                                                 is
                                                               I
                                                                                                ;
          difference in the clock. And although the wheel-work quite

          open to sight in the model which now show in my lectures,

          no person who sees can guess how the unequal motion of the
                                                  performed." (Ferguson's " Tables and
          Sun, in the model,                             116 -- 122; also, his " Select Mechani
                                                         1773, pp. 31 -- 33; also, MS. "Com
Tracts." Lond.,                              1767, pp.
cal Exercises."                                Lond.,

mon Place Book," page 102, Col. Lib. Edin.)

produce approximations to them, thus, -- take the third fraction                                                      it a   '
                                                                                                                               ij--293"

                                                                                                                             1461

          _I -- ^ ..._be t.reated as f.o..llows:-1--461 --                                                                   1465
,                                                 a      = 1460              ,1460  = 78 X 20,             w*ich      are  Ferguson
     a h.,                                            1                  and        = x 24,                                     ^
                                                                                     ,^                                                  .a
                       tins model of his clock; -- Also,                             take          1461    ,,   =     365 --    3287 --
          ... ,, ,,,,,numbersm                                           we    may
                                                                                                   Y^gx2              gg^I      3^596
                                                                            .
          19X173    = 23h-             a        U- °i7 iw        365     X  8+l1     =             10%     and  1461       x*+  1096
          42xl-03                         a                      866                               1099'        1465            1099=
                                               ,56 m'      -

          ,, ... ^ _ _=34<02Ji9?*--
                         §?,51 X79 Let          wheel of 79 turn round in 24 hours and drive                               wheel of 51

                              is
teeth, to which made fast wheel of 49 teeth (turning round with in the same
          time), which drives wheel of 82;-- This wheel of 82 teeth will turn once round in
                                                                                                   .,365
                                                                                                      f^                   = 32X331
          --23
              .6 m.                s. 1102 dec.;  Agam,  let     us      take  1461  X             ,       =    10592
                                                                                                      +
                       4

          If wheel of 247 teeth go round in 24 horns and drive wheel of 43, and this
          wheel to have one of 32 made fast to it, and made to turn wheel of 331, this             h. a a
          wheel of 331 will turn round in 23 93446945                                                      4a
                                                                                                                  5
                                                                         a     or 23 h. 56 m. s. thds. 24 fourths,
                                                                           h.  by
          an extremely near approximation discovered                              t us many years ago, and which
          ...... 3+-- _. .... --was at the time communicated to the members of he Royal Society by G. B. Airy,
                                                  Since   then,  Xwe,,,ha1v4e61dis==co3v7e6re20d           still closer approxima-
                                                         12053
          takmg^Esq., Astronomer- Royal.                                                                  --reducible
                                                                                                           ,           to    180x209
          tion to the true period by                                                                               4              y
                                                  9344696869 decimal = 23
          wfohuircthhs,gi--vetshe  period of 23   h.                                                      56 m. s. thirds, 275
                                   true period                       h.                                            fourths. About
                                 a                being 23               56 m. s. thds.
                                         it                                    4     5

ten years ago we constructed, in brass,                                      model with the latter set of wheel-
                                             still in our possession.
work, and have                                                                 on(ViCdleockPhailnodsopWhaictachl       Transactions
                                                                                                                       Making, pp.
          tor February, 1850, and Dcuison Treatise
                                                         s

          38, 39).
                       JAMES FERGUSON.                                       223

   Ferguson's Astronomy --Second Edition. --The jirst Edi

tion, published in 1756, having been nearly all disposed of by

the Spring of the year 1757 --a second edition, with correc
tions, was published in June, 1757. About the end of this year

he sold " the remaining part of the copy of his work to his pub

lisher, -- Mr. Andrew Millar, Bookseller and Publisher, Strand,

London, for £300." (See Ferguson's letter, date, January, 1758).

   New Astronomical Instrument. --Ferguson, on 9th August

1757, published a new Rotula, under the designation of "A

New Astronomical Instrument;" like his previously pub
lished Rotulas, it consisted of a series of three large moveable

cards, and " showed the Day of the Month, Change and Age of

the Moon, Places of the Sun and Moon in the Ecliptic; the
Rising, Southing, and Setting of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, in
the Latitude of London. Price Five Shillings and Sixpence."
This New Astronomical Instrument has been long out of

print. Among the drawings, &c., which belonged to the late

King George III., now deposited in the British Museum, there

is a copy of it in excellent preservation.

   " On the Years      of  the Birth and Death of  Christ." --
Disputes, &c. -- "     In                          April, and
                           the months of March,

May, 1757, several marked writers sent queries to the news

papers and magazines, pointing out what they considered

to be inaccuracies in his Astronomy, and requested Fergu

son's answer." The following note from Ferguson to Mr.

R Baldwin, the then printer and publisher, London, is in

reference to this subject. The paper which accompanied the

note is too long for insertion here --it is somewhat similar to
that already given in pp. 206 -- 213, with a few parenthetical

explanations.

    I" Sir, -- have seen a serious letter in your Magazine for last April,
Iconcerning the method have taken in my Astronomy to settle the years of

the birth and death of Christ, which is now reprinted, with some alterations

in the second edition of this work. If you think proIier to insert the follow

ing to satisfy the author of said letter, you are entirely at liberty to do so.

                           Sir,

London, August, 1757.            Your humble servant,
                                                          James Kkim>uson."
224 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

The original is in pencil --was written in August, 1757, and
is now to be found among the MSS. letters in the British

Museum.

   Astronomical Tables and Precepts --in MS. -- In the year

1757, Ferguson calculated and arranged a series of Tables for
finding the times of new and full Moon, and Eclipses. They
made a thin quarto of 28 pages, with 2 folding pen and ink
sketches of Eclipses. These Tables are still in existence, beau
tifully written, in excellent preservation, and half bound (size

l0f by 8£ inches). They were never published in a separate
volume, -- so far as we are aware -- but are to be found, in detach

ed portions, in several of his works. The manuscript is entitled,

" Astronomical Tables,  with  Precepts, for  Calculating the True
Times of Now and Full   Moon  and Eclipses.    By James Ferguson.

M.d.CCLVIl.''

These Tables, along with two other manuscript works, were
discovered in Edinburgh towards the end of the year 1865, and
were deposited in the College Library there in December of
the same year. For particulars regarding the other manuscript
works, see dates 1758 and 1776, as also the Appendix.

   Hand-Mill for Grinding Corn. --Sometime in the summer

of 1757, " The Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manu
factures, and Commerce, offered a Premium to the person who
should contrive and make the most effectual Haud-mill, to

grind corn into meal, for making bread for the poor ; fourteen
different mills were produced, to the said Society, at the end of
November, 1757 ; and a Committee appointed to examine the
same, having seen them severally grind corn, and called to their
assistance some of the most able judges to determine on the
meal so ground, they reported in favour of Mr. Gordon's Mill."
(Hinton's Universal Magazine, Vol. xxii. p. 357.) Ferguson
resolved to compete for the premium. He contrived and made
an efficient hand-mill in the autumn of 1757, and sent it to the
Society. The award was made in the middle of December,

1757, in favour of Gordon, a "friend" of Ferguson; through
whose duplicity Ferguson's mill was rejected. See the follow
ing letter of Ferguson's to the Rev. Alexander Irvine of Elgin.
                   JAMES FERGUSON.                                                          225

                                                     1758.

   The earliest notice we have of Ferguson, in 1758, is through
the medium of a very long and interesting letter which he wrote
to his old friend, the Rev. Alexander Irvine, Elgin, which letter
was presented some years ago to the Elgin Museum, by Mr.

Alexander Duffus, Cabinet-maker, Elgin. It will be seen that

it refers to himself and family ; to his thoughts of leaving Lon
don ; to his apparatus ; to his newly made Whirling Table ; to
Mr. Harrison's Clock and Corn Mill; to his being " egregiously
bit by on£ Gordon " in the matter of the Corn Mill model ; to

a balance of £300 from his publisher ; to a newly published
Rotula, and to a foolosopher, and the then expected Comet.
We give the letter in full.

  Copy of Ferguson's Letter to the Rev. Alexander
Irvine, of Elgin.

                                                                       London, Jan. \7lh, 1758.

  " Dear Reverend Friend,-- After so long a silence, I at last
Iwrite to you again, and inform you that the children and are

Jin very good health ; but poor Bell has been extremely low in

her spirits since the end of last une, and seems only now to be
getting a little better.207

  I" am still going on in the old way ; only my eyes are rather
too much failed to draw pictures ; and indeed I cannot say that I

have drawn six these last twelvemonths. And as to Astronomy,

there are at present more than double the number which might
Iserve the place -- people's taste lying but very little in that way ;
so that unless something unforeseen happens,                                                believe my
wisest course will be to leave London soon --everything being

Iso excessively dear, and the taxes so oppressive, that there is no
living. I assure you am not quite in jest when I now request

of you to inform me for how much rent one might have a toler

able house in or about Elgin, and what a man with a wife and

three children might soberly live upon by the year ; i0s also,

   207 The " pnor  Hell " refers to  MrTsh. eFe"rgcuhsilodnre.n-  A" swperreeviAogunselys,  mentioned, her
                   Isabel Wilson.                                                              aged 12 years
maiden name was
and 5 months ; James, aged 9 yoars and 3 months ; and Murdoch, aged 5 years
and 2 months -- three children. Ferguson, at this critical period of his life, was
in his 48th year ; his wife in her 38th year ; and they had un January 1758) been
resident in London for 14 years and 8 months.
                                 city in  the north of Scotland, about 540                  miles
   ''0s Elgin, an old Episcopal  west of  Keith -- the locality of his youthful             days.

NNW of London, and 17 miles
At the period Ferguson writes, 1758, Elgin had a population of about 2,200.

                                     2F
226 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

whether it would be prudent to dispose of my Astronomical

machinery here, for a third part of what it cost me, or bring them

north, with any view of having now and then some lectures in

I Iyour part of the country ? own, had much rather choose the
Ilatter --for should be like a fish out of water without my ap

paratus.209 But all this entre nous; and when you have considered

it,                                    it                                   way of invitation and in

    1                                           I by

          I
rather let me know as were

formation from yourself, than as answering a question.209

     believe told you already that have added a Whirling

Table to my apparatus, for showing the central forces, or laws

by which the planets move, and are retained in their orbits
                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                              ;
and  it  even goes so far as to demonstrate that the squares of

the periods are as the cubes of the distances; and the central

forces inversely are as the square of the periods.                                                                                have

lately procured an Air-pump, with most complete appara
                                                                    a

tus.210

   Mr. Harrison's clock has lately been examined and much
approved of at the Admiralty, by the Board for the longitude.
He has thereupon received a pretty large sum of money, and
will soon be ordered out for trial.211

      have been most egregiously bit just now by one Gordon,
I                                    A

    209  Thveiz.following"      an inventory of the apparatus Ferguson had at this period3.
(1758),       1.                                                            Season Hoops for illustrating
                                                  a
                 A
                                                                8.
                            is
                            Trajcctorinm Luna're."                          2.
                                               A Large                                  6.
the Change of the                      Four-Wheeled                 Wooden                Orrer"y.An          small Three-
                                                                    Orrery."                          Improred Celestial
                            "Seasons.                                                                 4.

                                 The                                                                     A

Wheeled  Orre"ryT.he.
Globe."  7.             Planetary Globes."                        "1W3T.ohoeMdeeCncahlaMcnuoilcdaaetoll r."oPfaraad1c1ou.xri.o"uTsh14Ae.str"ToinTdohee-
                    9.
                            Crank Orrerv. 10.
                    A 5.
mical Clock.
Dial." 12. The Centrifugal Machine.
                                       Lunar Machine.                16. "Satellite Machine." 17.
Comelarium." 15.       "    Simple      Seven-Wheeled,              or rather, Eight-Wheeled WoodenA
"The. Eclipsareon               18.
              .

Orrery. 19. Mechanical Paradox Orrery. 20. The Whirling Table, with an ex
tensive apparatus. 21. An Air- Pump and complete set of apparatus. 22. Astro
nomical Clock Model for showing the motions of the Sun and Stars, the Equation
of Time, &c.-, besides models of levers, wedges, wheel and axles, screws, wheels,
waggons, pumps, mills, &c., &c, as also great many astronomical and other
;
                                            a
                                                                           a

                                                                                   a
                                                                                                           a

                                                                                                                               ;
diagrams and maps.                                                                                                                and the
   210 The Whirling Table, with a figure, has already been described
Air-rump and apparatus have been already noticed.
   311 Mr. John Harrison, self-taught genius (like Ferguson), was born at Pon-

tcfract, in Yorkshire, in 1693, and was bred carpenter. At an early age, he
displayed considerable ingenuity in constructing several curious pieces of mechan
ism before he had attained the age of 21, he had made two wooden clocks with
out having received any instruction in horology. He had particular fondness
for clockwork, and afterwards became celebrated as the inventor of the Marine
Chronometer and "Gridiron Pendulum." At various times he received consider

able sums from Government for the excellent performance of his chronometers.
In 1767, when he was paid the balance of his reward, he had altogether received
from Government the sum ofi'20,000. He died in London, m 1776, aged 83.

(See also note 30).
                               JAMES FERGUSON.                               227

a countryman of ours, concerning which, I shall here give you

a short abstract of the history.212

The poor people of this country have been long abused by the

millers, who would not grind their corn, but forced them to give

theirs in exchange for meal so adulterated, as has been proved
to be slow poisou. In compassion to them, a set of gentlemen

entered into an agreement lately, to have hand-mills made and

given in presents, that they might grind their own corn at home ;

Iand proposed a reward of £50 sterling to any one who would

bring them a hand-mill at this last Christmas.213 As know

mill-work tolerably well, I made a model of one, and showed it

                                                 I
                                                        it,
to the gentlemen ; they liked and desired me to bring work
                                                                             a
ing mill afterit, 1 it,thinking would stand a chance for the pre                      it,

mium.            I it

Soon after had shown this model, the above said Gordon

called upon me, and told me that gentleman in the country
                                                             a

                                                              II
                                                                          a
had heard of and wrote to him to have mill made after

      would allow to be copied. As had then never heard
anything against this man's character, lent him the model --
iIf

           a
knowing thereby should have an opportunity of seeing how

such mill would perform without being at the charge 'of

making one. It was made, and performed so well, that a

man of a very ordinary degree of strength could grind three-

quarters of a bushel of wheat within an hour, and make as

good flour as could be desired.                              then had a mind to get
                                                             it. it I
such another mill made, and let take its chance with the         I

rest.

But Gordon told me that he could greatly improve my

scheme, and lay before the Society as his own and                            would
?                                                                            ;

                      it                                                            if
                           it                                                            it

                                                                                                                  1
gain the premium, he would give me one half. What could

do He had got in his hand, and could not hinder him.

What he called an improvement was an additional part for boult-

ing the flour as the mill ground                             This the Society told me

  212 One of our correspondents, in referring to Gonlon, says, " My father
knew the man well he was man of great cunning, very plausible, little or nn
       a
                            ;
                                              a
conscientiousness, aml had no inventive powers. He prowled about in cunning
way, picking up information on anything that was new, and by adding pin, it  a
nail, or screio, to any new contrivance, he did not scruple to call the whole hisa

                                                                                         of
own. He appears to hnve died in straitened circumstances about the year

1785."        " set of gentlemen " here mentioned            were members of " the Society
   213 The
Arts," established in London in 175), now so celebrated for its utility and high

standing.
228 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

they did not like, because it would make such mills too expen

sive for them to give away, and so desired me to bring mine

without it. I told Gordon this, and asked him whether he

would make me a mill, just after the model, by the end of

November ; he assured me he would, and so undertook to do it.

I believed it was in hand, and was always told so at his house,

till within a fortnight of the time, when himself told me it was

not begun. And at that very time I observed the mill, which

he said was made for a gentleman in the country, but had never
been sent : and, indeed, I much question whether he ever
                        I then desired him to bring in that
had such a commission.

mill (knowing it was then too late for me to employ another

person) ; and though it had the boulting-work, he could easily

inform the gentlemen how much cheaper it could be made with

out that part. But he refused to bring it in, till the Duke of
Argyle huffed him into it ; and he, being the Duke's cabinet

maker, could not refuse. But he had taken previous care to

make another mill which 1 knew nothing of, and had raised

the structure in so foolish a manner, that his mill required at

least double the power to work it that mine did.

There were about twenty different sorts of mills brought

into a great room, taken by the Society for their reception, and

Mr. Harrison had one among the rest. Many trials were made,

and it was long thought by most of the committee appointed for

examining these mills, that the dispute would have been confin

ed to Mr. Harrison's and mine. Gordon was always there ; his
mill was set just by mine, and he kept a man for working them

both. Mr. Harrison's mill, by working it too hard, had broke,

and was therefore rejected. Upon Monday, the 24th December,

I was given to understand that my mill had been rejected the

Saturday before, on account of a trial then made, when it was

judged to have failed all at once, because it hardly produced

what deserved the name of flour ; and I not knowing of any trial

to have been on that day, was unluckily absent.

  The news did not much surprise me, because I immediately

Isuspected roguery, and then upon dropping my hand upon the

cog-wheel could easily perceive that the upper mill-stone had

Ibeen raised so high that the flour then ground by it must have

been very bad indeed ; upon which, told the gentlemen of the
committee that the mill had been rejected upon a very unfair
                           JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                  229

trial, and mentioned the circumstances, telling the gentlemen

that they might soon be convinced of the truth of this by grind

ing a little wheat in the mill as the stones were then set, and

upon allowing me to set them properly close, it would still be

found to make as good flour as ever. But they declared, as the

mill was once rejected it must for ever stand so, and blamed
me for having been absent, telling me also that if they should

indulge me with another trial, all the rest whose mills were

rejected would insist upon the same, and so there would be no

end of it.

  I shall trouble you no further with this disagreeable sub
Iject, than to inform you that Gordon's mill, in which had
Ineither hand nor share, has gained the prize. But imagine the

committee begin to find they have given it for very little ; the

mill, as I am told, begins already to fail, and some parts of it

are more than half worn out. And no great wonder ; for in it

the heavy stones of two feet diameter, and seven inches thick,

are turned by a wheel with inclined teeth working in an endless

screw, just as the fly of a common jack is turned. I leave you

to judge what sort of a mechanical conjuror he is. Mine is

turned by a cog-wheel and trundle.214

  I have just sold the remaining part of the copy of my book

    2M  In looking   into " The.  Universal       Magazine," Vol.              xxii.           --pp.  357,  358,
dateil  June, 1758,               following     regarding Gordon's             mill:
                     we find the

   Your committee, having examined all the lmnd-mills produced in consequence
of your premium, came unanimously to a resolution,-- That the stone mill made
by Mr. Gordon (the diameter of the stones, called Cologne stones, being 23
inches, and the price £6 10s. with a fly, and £5 15s. without a fly), and the
steel mill made by Mr. Peter Lyon (the diameter of which is five inches and
three-quarters ; the price, with a fly, £2 15s., and without a fly, £2), are the two
best mills ; that either of them will grind corn in a proper manner for the poor.
But, all circumstances considered, as your committee are doubtful to which to

give the preference, and the two above candidates consenting to divide the pre
mium of £50 between them, your committee recommend it to be so divided, and
also, recommend the giving a premium, for hand-mills, another year. The So
ciety agreed with their committee, and the premium of £50 was accordingly so
divided. And there being still great room for invention and improvement in
the making of hand-mills, £50 is again offered to the person who snail make for
the Society, on or before the first Wednesday in November, 1758, an hand-mill,
which will

"Ameal, in a

Description
Universal
            McmahoeogfasaptAziinre.meff,ea"Gcnotnrfuodearorl,lnyJu'fsolayrn,Sdmto1an7ek5exm8p,MegdVilitolb,ilor.euwasxdiltyxhiifiog.arriCnptodahpgeepweph3rope3o,lara.ttte"haenrpdTerhoieinstnht.e""rfoAgllorIanDwiens",sciTrnihpteo
tion of Mr. Lyon's Steel Mill, with a Copperplate print." In April, 1758, the
            Arts           ampo. n2g03oth:--er  "adHvaenrdti-smemillse.nt--s,   the following  in the Universal
Society of   Vol.  has,                                                        There being     still great room
Magazine,           xxii.
for invention and improvement in the making of hand-mills, there will be
given to the person who shall make for the Society, on or before the first Wed
nesday in November, 1758, an hand-mill, which will most effectually and ex
230 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

to a bookseller for £300 ; for as I design to leave London soon,

I should have been but embarrassed by it.214
  I wish I could find an opportunity of sending you a plate

which I have just published, something in the nature of the late
Rotula It shows the day of the month, age, and change of the

Moon ; the places of the Sun and Moon in the ecliptic, with the
times of the rising, southing, and setting of the Sun, Moon, and

Stars of first, second, and third magnitude, from a.d. 1756 to

a.d. 1805.

  IBe so good as to convey the enclosed letter to Keith by

post, and write me as soon as you can with convenience. -- am,

with united compliments, &c,

                  Your most obliged,   humble servant,
                                               James Ferguson.
From the Club, opposite Cecil Street,
                  in the Strand.

We have no news as yet of the expected comet. A certain

I Ifoolosapher has almost frightened many people out of their
senses about it.  tell them wish they would look into their

Bibles, and they would be satisfied that too much is to be done

before the 12th of next May, for the world to come then to an

end."

   The expected Comet here alluded to was Halley's Coinet.

It made its appearance on 25th December, 1758 --fully eleven

months after this letter was written.

   It will have been observed that Ferguson, near the commence
ment of his letter, just quoted, expresses to the Rev. Mr. Irvine
a wish to leave London, and remove to Elgin, and contemplates

doing so, " unless something unforeseen happens" Ferguson

peditiously grind wheat and other grain into meal, in a cheap manner, for mak
ing bread for the use of the poor, £50." Whether Ferguson responded to this
second call of the Society, by making another mill for competition for the £»0
premium, is not now known ; but most likely he did not ; and thus prevented a
repetition of conduct such as Gordon's.

   w> From what we have heard of the great liberality of Mr. Millar to
authors, we are inclined to believe that he would make offer to Ferguson to
publish his Astronomy at his own risk -- a risk, involving, perhaps, an outlay
of at least £500 ; he would also, probably, promise to buy the copyright of the
work, provided the 1st edition went quickly off his hands, and cleared all expen
ses, then to pay part of the price agreed on for it, and the remainder of the money
after the 2d edition was issued. How much money Ferguson received as a first
payment from Mr. Millar, is uncertain, but the second or remaining portion was
£300, as here noted.
                             JAMES FERGUSON.                           231

did not leave Loudon ; the inference therefore that " somea
thing unforeseen did happen" to keep him to London. Enter is,
taining this idea, we made search through great many of the
London newspapers and magazines of this period, in order toif

find there were any notice or paragraph in them regarding

Ferguson and his movements, so as to account for his continu

ing to reside in London. In our search, " The Morning Post
and General Advertiser" of May 2d, 1758, came into our hands,
in which we found the following notice --
                                       :

    The Prince of Wales sends for Ferguson.--" H. R. H.

The Prince of Wales (Prince George) yesterday sent for the
celebrated Mr. James Ferguson, who waited on his Royal High

ness, at Leicester House, with his new Astronomical apparatus,

with which the Prince appeared to be much interested." 216
   We think there can be no doubt that this message from the

Prince of Wales to Ferguson, and the result of his interview
with him, became the " unforeseen something" which at once
made him abandon all thoughts of going to Elgin, and resolve

on taking up his permanent residence in London. The 1st May,
1758, was a great " Red-Letter Day" for Ferguson
                                                               it ;    was cer
                                                                   it
tainly the grand turning point in his career, as opened the

way to his future advancement.
   This newspaper paragraph alludes to Ferguson's " New As

tronomical Apparatus," which he showed the Prince at Leices
ter House. This was, probably, either his Whirling Table and
apparatus, then recently made, or his New Rotula, published
on 9th August in the preceding year, and entitled, " New

Astronomical Instrument," &c. (See date 9th August, 1757).
                                                               a by
    Ferguson's Clock. -- The Clock usually called " Ferguson's
                                                                    A
Clock" appears to have been invented and made                         Ferguson

in 1758, and often alluded to in works on Horology, &c.
                 is
It  was contrived        by  him as an improvement on singular

Clock which had then been recently invented by the cele

brated Dr. Franklin -- now known as " The Franklin
                             ;

Clock!' 217

2l<i George, Prince of Wales, who, in  October 1760, became    King   George III.
                                       celebrated Philosopher    and
:"7 Benjamin Franklin, LL.D., the                                     Statesman,

was born in Boston, North America, in the year 1706; besides heing the author
232 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   Annexed is a view of the dial, a plan of the wheel-work, and
description of Ferguson's Clock, from his " Select Mecltanical
Exercises."

   A " Clock that shows the Hours, Minutes, and Seconds, by

means of only Three Wheels and Two Pinions in the whole
Movement.

           Ferguson's Simple Clock, 1753.

IAs Dr. Franklin, whom rejoice to call my friend, is perhaps

the last person in the world, who would take anything amiss

that looks like an amendment or improvement of any scheme

of several works, he discovered " The Identity of Lightning and Electricity,
On the Smoothing of the Surface of a Ruffled Sea by (hroicimj Oil an thc Waters ;
he was also the Inventor of the Harmonium, a musical instrument, aud The
Franklin Clock. He died in 1790, aged 84."
Franklin came to England in 1724, and for many years worked at his trade as
           in London.   He   --left17L5o7n--do1n7<s5o6--me17y7e4a,rs    after this date. Imt we find  him
a printer  London in   1755                                           &c. Franklin and Ferguson        ap
again in
pear to have been introduced to each other in 1757. Ferguson's death, in 1776,
put an end to the intimate friendship which had so long subsisted between them.
A curious old Circular Horologe, or Clock, once in our possession, (now in the
oFsMncneourtriesbgNeeuasus1tmo.6tn7he,.aet--t1E"BF7xae6Fpnr6r.gfa,f"u)nPs--kohhlniia"ln,.s,KCeeinnLlnogoncrnhaekdivt,s"heonnM".aSn'oeCndluBeilegctl,onitvjcJaeohmMsh,einnec1nh7TgaF7.rnra4iacvD;ani"enlksglaasingEnu,xdolefierLtcrihtLsisse,.eDsDiL,n.i"L,ait.li-aDf1pal7as.c,5ge7es.1Ga7--.u21dW9--", J.wa4--Lm,heeSedeeetes.le-
works.
             JAMES FERGUSON.                                       233

Ihe proposes, have ventured to offer my thoughts concerning

his clock, and how one might be made as simple as his, with

some advantages. But I must confess, that my alteration is at

Itended with some inconveniences, of which his are entirely
free.   shall mention both, to the best of my knowledge, that

they who choose to have such simple and cheap clocks may

have them made in either way they please.218

   The Doctor's clock cannot well be made to go a week without

drawing up the weight ; and if a person wakes in the night, and

looks at the clock, he may possibly be mistaken four hours in

reckoning the time by it,219 as the hand cannot be upon any

hour, or pass by any hour, without being upon or passing by

four hours at the same time. To avoid these inconveniences,

I have thought of the following method :--

   In Fig. 1 the dial-plate of such a clock is represented, in
which there is an opening abed below the centre. Through

this opening, part of a flat plate appears, on which the twelve

hours are engraved, and divided into quarters. This plate is

contiguous to the back of the dial-plate, and turns round in 12

hours ; so that the true hour, or part thereof, appears in the

middle of the opening, at the point of an index A, which is

engraved on the face of the dial-plate. B is the minute-hand,

as in a common clock, going round through all the 6O minutes

on the dial in an hour ; and, in that time, the plate seen through

the opening abed shifts one hour under the fixed engraven

index A. By these, you always know the hour and minute, at
whatever time you view the dial-plate. In this plate is another

fgopening e h, through which the seconds are seen on a flat

moveable ring, almost contiguous to the back of the dial-plate ;

and, as the ring turns round, the seconds upon it are shown by

the top point of & fleur-de-lis C, engraved on the face of the

dial-plate.

  21s " The Ferguson Cluck " wius invented and made by Ferguson in 1758. We
scarcely think a second clock on such a construction would he made -- such u
clock would never keep accurate time. The Clock is now only known as "one

of the  c"urTihoesitieFsranokf lHinorolColqotci.k"."  -- This  is also a clock now reckoned amongst
   SIS                                                Owing    to the arrangement of the hours on its dial-
"  The  Curiosities of Horology."

plate, it is rendered almost unlit for general use. We have in our possession a
small Franklin Horologe; the dial-plate is of thick brass, 3 inches in diameter, with
Human, or Chapter hours engraven on it a la Franklin. The works are those of
an extraordinary strong watch attached to the back of the dial. (Benj" Frank
lin, LL.D., 1757, is engraven on the back of the dial outside ot the watch works)

                                                               2G
234 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

  Fig. 2 represents the wheels aml pinions in this clock. A is

the first or great wheel; it contains 120 teeth, and turns round
in 12 hours. On its axis is the plate on which the 12 hours

above-mentioned are engraved.

   This plate is not fixed on the axis, but only put tight upon a
round part thereof, so that any hour, or part of an hour, may be

set to the top of the fixed index A, without affecting the motiou

of the wheel. For this purpose, twelve small holes are drilled

through the plate, one at each hour, among the quarter divi
sions ; and, by putting a pin into any hole in view, the plate
may be set, without affecting any part of the wheel-work. This
great wheel A, of 120 teeth, turns a pinion B of 10 leaves round
in an hour ; and the minute-hand B (Fig. 1) is on the axis of
this pinion, the end of the axis not being square, but round ;

that the minute-hand may be turned occasionally upon with
                                          ;

                                                   3
                                                            it,
out affecting any part of the movement. On the axis of the

pinion  B          wheel of 120 teeth, turning round in an hour,
                   DC
and turning a pinion of leaves in minutes for minutes; a is                              3 is
                a          C           3
                                 6
a 20th part of an hour, and            the 20th part of 120. On the
                                 E is
axis of this pinion a wheel of 90 teeth, going round inis

minutes, and keeping a pendulum in motion that vibrates
seconds, by pallets, as in common clock, where the pendulum
                       3a

                                         ;

                                      if

                                                      a
                                                           3

                                                             it

                                                                                      ;
wheel has only 30 teeth, and goes round in minute. But, as this

wheel goes round only in minutes, we want to show the

seconds,         thin plate must be divided into times 60, or 180

equal parts, and numbered 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60 10, 20, 30,

40, 50, 60 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60 and fixed upon the same axis

with the wheel of 90 teeth, so near the back of the dial-plate,
as only to turn round without touching it; and these divisions

will show the seconds, through the opening efg in the dial-
                 C.
                                                                                     h
plate, as they slide gradually round below the point of the fixed

fleur-de-lis
    As the great wheel A, and pulley on its axis over which the

cord goes (as in a common 30 hour clock) turns round only once
in 12 hours, this clock will go a week with a cord of common

length, and always have the true hour, or part of that hour, in

sight at the upper end of the fixed index A on the dial-plate.
These are two advantages has beyond Dr. Franklin's clock
it
                                     it

                                                                                 is
                                                                                       B,

                                                                                                                                               ;
but has two disadvantages of which his clock free. For, in

this, although the 12-hour wheel turns the minute-index                                  yet,
                JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                              235

if that index be turned by hand, to set it to the proper minute

for any time, it will not move the 12 hour plate to set the cor
responding part of the hour even with the top of the index A ;

and therefore, after having set the minute-index B right by

hand, the hour-plate must be set right by means of a pin put

into the small hole in the plate just below the hour. Tis true,
there is no great matter in this ; but I have some suspicion that
the pendulum wheel E having 90 teeth instead of the common

number 30, may be some disadvantage to the 'scapement, on

account of the smallness of the teeth ; and 'tis certain, that it will

cause the pendulum-ball to describe but small arcs in its vibra

tions. Indeed some men of science think small arcs are best ;

but if they really are, I must confess myself ignorant of the

reason. For, whether the ball describes a large or a small arc,

if the arc be nearly cycloidul, the vibrations will be performed

in equal times ; the time then depending entirely on the length

of the pondulum;rod, not on the length of the arc the ball de

                             is,
                                                        is, is
scribes. The larger the arc the greater the momentum

of the ball and the greater the momentum                        the less will the
       by
times of the vibrations be affected by any unequal impulse of
             ;
the pendulum wheel upon the pallets.

But the worst thing about this clock (and what every one will

                             that the weight of the flat ring
allow to be a disadvantage)  is,
                                    a
                                                           ;
on which the seconds are engraved, will load the pivots of the

axis of the pendulum-wheel with great deal of friction, which

ought         all possible means to be avoided and yet have seen
                                                                II

                                                                                  it
one of these clocks (lately made) that goes very well, notwith
standing the weight of this ring. For my own part, think

might be quite left out for they are of very little use in common
                ;

clocks, not made for Astronomical observations, and table-clocks
never have them." (Vide Ferguson's " Select Mechanical Exer

cises." Lond., 1773, 1st Edit., pp. 4--11).

   In his recently discovered " Common Place Book," Ferguson
says, " showed this Clock to Dr. Franklin, who approved very
    of /

                                         is
                                                                                                         p.
much   the alteration." " Common Place Book,"                                                                98 (Col.

Lib. Edin.)

   Manuscript Copy of Ferguson's Astronomy. -- Under date

1737, page 224, allusion made to three manuscript books, in
Ferguson's autograph, which were discovered near the end of the
236 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

year 1865. The second one of the three, in the order of date, -- is

a quarto copy of his Astronomy, carefully and beautifully written

--an exact copy of his quarto Astronomy then in print. It is illus

trated by engravings same as in the printed copies, with four ad

ditional ones, done by him in pen and ink, --viz. A view of the
Dial-face of an Astronomical Clock ;-- Plan of the wheel-work of
his large Orrery;--and two projections of the Solar Eclipses in

1761 and 1764. The title-page of this volume is the same as

in the printed copy (see page 214), and has the date mdcclviii

lettered with the pen at the foot of the page. It has been sup

posed   that this MS. is the original from which  the first edit ion
of his                                            admit this, then
        Astronomy was printed (in 1756) --if we
Ferguson must have added the title-page to it in 1758. We

are of opinion that the MS. was written in 1758, from the

second and corrected edition of 1757. The MS. is very

carefully and neatly written, free from erasures and inter

lineations, such as are usually to be found in copy for the press

-- too clean to have passed through the printing office.

We can form no opinion as to Ferguson's motive for writing

this MS.

The manuscript volume is a thick quarto of 328 pages, fol

lowed by 24 pages of printed matter, and Tables by Tobias
JMayer. It is full bound in                       edges --in excel
                                                   1 inch thick --
lent preservation --size, lOg
          calf, with gilded
          by 8A inches, and

now in College Library. Edinburgh, with the other two volumes.

For an account of the third MS. Vol., see date 1776.

   The year 1758 opens with a long and interesting letter from
Ferguson to his much esteemed friend, the Rev. Mr. Irvine of

Elgin. The year closed on Ferguson with the sad intelligence
of his friend's death. The Rev. Alexander Irvine died at Elgin

on the 22d December, 1758, in the 59th year of his age, and

34th of his ministry. (See also note 69).

                                                     1759.

   Birth : John Ferguson born. -- Our first memorandum of

Ferguson, for the year 1759, refers to an " interesting domestic
occurrence," viz. the birth of a son, baptized John. The follow

ing extract of the birth is in the autograph of Ferguson, taken
from a small pocket Bible once belonging to the Ferguson
family, and to which we have been indebted for a record of all
JAMES FERGUSON.  237

the births in his family. As previously noted, this Bihlo is now
the property of Dr. George, Surgeon, Keith.

                 " Joun; (born), Tuesday, 27th Feb*. 1759, N.S."

   It is very probable that Ferguson's son, John, was named after

either his grandfather, whose name was John, or in compliment
to his uncle John, who, at the time, was residing in the parish
of Keith, Banffshire. Ferguson had now a family of one daugh

ter and three sons, viz. A ones, James, Murdoch, and John;

there was no after addition to his family.-22

   Pyrometer. -- In 1759, Ferguson invented and made a Pyro

meter, for showing the expansion of metals by heat. The fol
lowing description, and annexed figure of this instrument are
from Ferguson's " Lectures on Select Subjects."

   " A A is a flat piece of mahogany, in which arc fixed four
brass studs B, C, D, L; and' two pins, one at F, and the other
at H. On the pin F turns the crooked index E I, and upon
the pin H, the straight index G K, against which, a piece of
watch-spring R bears gently, and so presses it toward the be
ginning of the scale M N, over which the point of that index
moves. This scale is divided into inches and tenth parts of an

inch ; the first inch is marked 1000, the second 2000, and so on.

A bar of metal O, is laid into notches in the top of the studs C
and D ; one end of the bar bearing against the adjusting screw
P, and the other end against the crooked index E I, at a 20th

        221 For notices of John Ferguson, see date 1773 ; and the Appendix.
238 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

part of its length from its centre of motion F. Now it is plain,

that however  mEuI,chatghaeinbstarwOhiclhengitthebnesa,rs,itjuwsitll   move    that  part
of the index                                                          as far;   but   the

crooked end of the same index, near H, being 20 times as far

from the centre of motion F, as the point is against which the

bar bears, it will move 20 times as far as the bar lengthens.

And as this crooked end bears against the index G K at only

a 20th part of the whole length G S from its centre of motion

H, the point S will move through 20 times the space that the
point of bearing near H does. Hence, as 20 multiplied by 20

produces 400, it is evident that if the bar lengthens but a 400th

part of an inch, the point S will move a whole inch on the scale ;
and as every inch is divided into 10 equal parts, if the bar

lengthen but the 10th part of the 400th part of inch, which is

only the 4000th part of an inch, the point S will move the

tenth part of an inch, which is very perceptible.

To find how much the bar lengthens by heat, first lay it cold

into the notches of the studs, and turn the adjusting screw P

until the spring R brings the point S of the index G K to the

beginning of the divisions of the scale M ; then, without alter

ing the screw any farther, take off the bar and rub it with a
dry woollen cloth till it feel warm ; and then, laying it on where

it was, observe how far it pushes the point S upon the scale by

means of the crooked index E I ; and the point S will show

exactly how much the bar has lengthened by the heat of rub

bing. As the bar cools, the spring R bearing against the index
K G, will cause its point S to move gradually back towards M,

in the scale ; and when the bar is quite cold, the index will rest

Iat M, where it was before the bar was made warm by rubbing.

The indexes have small rollers under them at and K ; which,

by turning round on the smooth wood, as the indexes move,

make their motion the easier, by taking off a great part of the

friction, which would otherwise be on the pins F and H, and of

the points  of the indexes themselves on     the wood." 223 (Vide
Ferguson's  " Lectures on Select Subjects."   Loud. 1760, p. 246).

   2'-3 This Pyrometer is "defective both in principle and execution;" it was
found so shortly after its introduction. Mr. Charles F. Parkinson, who edit<ni
an edition of Ferguson's Mechanics, in 1825, has a foot-note regarding this Pyro
meter, in which he says, "The Pyrometer here described has been justly eon -
sidered as defective both in principle and execution. If it !«' merely intended to
illustrate the expansion of metals by heat, the fact may be shown by fitting a
piece of large (thick) wire into a hole, and it will be found that after it has been
                          JAMES FERGUSON.                                 239

In 1759, Ferguson published " An Astronomical Rotula,"

with printed description of its several parts and how to use it.

This Rotula, like all its predecessors, has been long out of print
-- the only account we have seen of this one is to be found in
" The King's Library," British Museum.

   The late Adam Walker, Esq., Lecturer on Natural and Ex
perimental Philosophy, &c., London --a friend of Ferguson's --

had many of his MS. papers, which, in 1831, were shown to

us by his son, Deane F. Walker, Esq., Lecturer on Astronomy

and the Eidouranion ; at the time, wo took notes of all we saw

with the dates affixed to each.224

One of these manuscript papers refers to date 1759, and

illustrates by calculation the conjunctive period of the hour,

minute, and seconds-hand of a clock, which we give as follows ;

as also, The Conjunctions of the Hour and Minute Hands of a
Watch, -- illustrating the Conjunctive Periods of the Sun and

Moon.

" Suppose the Hour, Minute, and Seconds-hand of a Clock to
1>0 in Conjunction at the Hour of XII. How much time will

elapse ere they come into Conjunction again ? "
    " Here we have the periodical revolution of the Hour-hand
= 720 minutes = a ; the periodical revolution of the Minute-
hand -- 60 minutes = 6 ; and that of the Seconds-hand = 1
                                                                          = TMi
minute -- c; from whence we collect                      -- 4||^° min. =

min. for the synodical period or conjunction of the Hour and

Minute-hands; and ffc = ^ for the synodical period of the
Minute and Seconds-hands. Then, to find the synodical period

brought to a red heat, that its bulk will have so far increased as to prevent its
passing through the hole. When it is found necessary, however, to ascertain the
comparative amount of expansion in various metals under the same degree of
temperature, a variety of more accurate instruments may be resorted to." Fer
guson himself appears to have been convinced of the defects of this Pyrometer, as
he, in 1764, invented another of a superior order. See Pyrometer under date

1764.                                                    Natural and Experimental
                                                          and other works ; was the
   224 Mr. Adam  Walker,  ofan"  eminent   lecturer on
Philosophy, and  author          Familiar  Philosophy,"
inventor of the Eidouranion, or Transparent Orrery. In early life, he was a
friend of Ferguson's, from whom he received many MSS. and pieces of apparatus.
He died in 1821, at the great age of 90. These MSS. &c., at his death, came
into the possession of his sou (our late friend) Deane Walker, Esq., lecturer
on Astronomy and the Eidouranion, London, -- to whose kindness on many occa
sion we were much indebted. In 1831 we received from him several of his
"Ferguson MSS. and pen and ink sketches," and allowed to copy those he re
tained. Mr. Deane Walker died at Tooting, near London, nn 10th May, lS65,
aged 87. For an account of his celebrated Eidouranion, and lecture nn     it,
                                                                               see

the Glasgow Mechanics' Magazine, vol. 1st, pp. 20--23, 1824.
240 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

of all the three hands, we must suppose ^IH? = "ATM, from whence
we have m:v : : ~ : --. Now, the least integer numbers, repre
sented by m and n, in the proportion of |' to ~ are 11 and 708.
                                            2? ;
=Thethreefosryen, o1d1ic:a7l 08pe:r:io|?d:   of   and  consequently,               the    (= 708 x
                                                  the  three hands of                     clock = 720

minutes, or just 12 hours.225

The periodical revolutions of the Sun and Moon, round the

ecliptic, and their synodical period of conjunction with each

other, may be familiarly represented by the motions of the hour

and minute hands of a watch, round its Dial-plate. For, the

Dial-plate is divided into 12 hours, as the ecliptic is divided

into 12 signs; the hour-hand goes round in 12 hours, as the

Sun does in 12 months, and the minute-hand goes round iu 1

hour, as the Moon does in (somewhat less than) a month. And,
as the Moon never is in conjunction with the Sun in that point

of the ecliptic where she was at the last conjunction before, so

the minute-hand never is in conjunction with the hour-hand at

that point of the Dial-plate where it was at the last preceding

conjunction. So that, the 12 hours on the Dial-plate may re

present the 12 signs of the ecliptic ; the hour-hand the Sun, and

the minute-hand the Moon. Only, the motion of the minute-

hand is too slow for the Moon, in proportion to that of the

hour-hand compared with the motion of the Sun. For, in

the time of the Sun's going round the ecliptic, which is

12 calendar months, there are 12'36 conjunctions of the

Sun and Moon; 186 but in the time the hour-hand goes round

the Dial-plate, the minute-hand is only 11 times conjoined

with it.                                                                                                The

  These hands are always in conjunction at XII o'clock.

tirst column of the following Table shows the number of their

conjunctions in 12 hours, and the collateral lines show in how

many hours, minutes, &c., after XII, they come to their succeed

ing conjunctions marked in the first column; the time between

any conjunction and the next being 1 hour 5-I5T minutes."

                                                                       2)  =2)360  S)     =5)60
                                                      follows:-- 720                 ISO
=-"»The                                           as                                             =  12  and.
above  may  also  be done

                                                       60= 30= 15= "5 1'
12 X 1 X 1 = 12 hours, the period of a continual conjunction of these three

hands.
   226 There are 12 368269 conjunctions of the Moon with the Sun in 365 d. 5 h.

48 m. 51 -6 s. (See uotes 59 and 199).
                                         JAMES FERGUSON.                 241

        Hour.  Min.             Soc. Thds. Fourths.  Fifths.  Sixths. Sevenths. Eighths. Ninths. Tenths.
                                                       49,
    1 I.         5,             27, Ki,  21,           38,      5,  27,  16, 21, 49TY
         II.   10,                                     27,    10,   54,  32, 43, 38t>r
    '2  III.   16,              54, 32,  43,           16,    16,   21,  49, 5, 27-rV
    3   mi.    21,                                            21,   49,
 .       v.    27,              21, 49,   5,           54,    -'7,  16,   5*5, 27, I--r4!
S0  4f         32,              49, 5,   -7.           43,          43,
               38,                                     3-2,   32,   10,  21, 19.
               43,                                     21,    38,   38,
                1t>.                                          13,        *h\38, 10, 54-ft
               54,                                     M,     49,   32,
                                                                         54, 32,
                                                              54.
                                                                         10, 54, 32t»t
                                                                         27, 16, 21-fr
                                                                         43, 38, 10W
§4?                             16, 21,  49,

      9 s ;>VI.                 13, 38,  1",
                           0,VII.
                                     o, 5,VIII.10, 51,32,
                                                0,
»                                                           0,IX.38. H',54,
                                                                         o, .1,
                                                                                        0.
                                                                                                    0, 5,
                                                                                                                     0,
                                                                                                                                  0,
                                                                                                                                              0.
                                  27, 16,

    10 X.                       32, 13, 38,
    11 XI.

If the above process was carried to infinity, in the horizontal

lines, the numbers would circulate at every fifth column.
                                                              James Ferguson.

                                                                           London, June \%tk, 1759."

(Vide also Ferguson's " Tables and Tracts." Lond., 1767, pp.

149--152).

   Troy and Avoirdupoise Weight Tables. -- In the month
of June, 1759, Ferguson calculated and published, in large type,

on single sheet,
by
   a" Tables for Changing Troy Weight into Avoirdupoise Weight, and
    Avoirdupoise Weight into Troy Weight."
          is is
This sheet has                isbeen out of print    for upwards of      century --
now not to be                                        sold at, and its
                                had --the price                          success in the
                                                     it
                                                                                   a
                                                                                              it
                                                                                                              is

literary market,                  unknown. In his MS. " Common Place

Book," pp. 238, 239, he gives copies of these Tables. At
the end of them, ive are told that they were " Calculated

   James Ferguson, June ad. 1759." We find the MS. Tables

in the " Common Place Book," similar to those he afterwards

gave in his " Tables and Tracts," pp. 232 -- 235, to which the

reader referred.

Under date 1755 (page 206),                                              remarked that he
                                                              it

                                                                     is

                                                                                      it
                                                                                                   of
sometimes turned his attention to Theological subjects, and
             given his paper, " On the Birth and Crucifixion
there

Christ" The present paper discusses the question of " the
Name and Number of the Beast," which results in a very

remarkable coincidence of sums total. We copied                          in 1831

from a MS. of Ferguson's in the possession of the late William

Upcott, Esq., Islington, London.
242 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   " On the Name and Number of the Apocalyptic Beast." --

" Whoever roads the description of the ' Scarlet Woman,' and

of the Beast, in the Book of Revelations, will allow that both

these do agree so exactly with the Romish Constitution or

Establishment, that they can hardly mean anything else. The

name written upon her forehead is Mystery; (see Rev. chap,

xvii., v. 5, and chap, xiii., v. 18) the number of the Beast, which
is there also said to be the number of a Man, is 666.

  In the  Hebrew language the word "linD                                                   (Sethor)    signifies
Mystery   ; and the Talmudists use the word                                                 rvvon    (Romith)

to signify the Romish Constitution or Establishment. All the

letters of these words are numerals, and their sum in each is

666.

   Among the Greeks, the Church of Rome was called AATEINOS

(Lateinon) or the Latin Church. All these letters are numeral
ones too, and their sum is 666.

  The Papists call the Pope VICARIVS, FILII, DEI (The

Vicar of tite Son of Go<l). And, if we take the sum of all the
numeral letters in these three words, we shall find it also to be

666-- (See

                                                                                                  Lutin.
                                                                                           Vicar of the Son of

                                                                                                God in Latin,
                                                                                               and Numerical
                                                                                           Value of the Letters.

       Hebrew.                       Hebrew.                       fSreek.                                    I
SKTflnn in Hebrew,                                                                                       100
                              Romiih in Hkkrkw,            Lateinos ill Greek.
    ami NimHirii-al               aml Numeiii-al               ami Xumerieul                                  1
Value nf tin' Lettel v                                                                                     nO
                              Value ;>lthe Letters.        Value of the Letters.
  r do                                                                                                        1
                                            , 200                                   30                        1
  n 400                           16                                                  l               500
   i6                                                                                                         !
                                                       40                     300
                       201 I                    . 10                                  5    Sum ; fi(i-

                                                       10                           10
                                              . 400                                 .-,(!
                                                                                    70
                                                                                  21ii i

Sum ; fi(5-                   Stun ; --fi                  Sinn ; -fi-
                 JAMES FERGUSON                                  243

Thus, the Sum Total of the Numerical value of the Letters in

each of the Tablets, is exactly 666, -- A very fatal coincidence

against Popery.                  James Ferguson.

                                                                    London, 7th November, 1759."

(See also Ferguson's recently discovered MS. " Common Place
Book" Col. Lib. Edin., pp. 7 and 244).

   We have in our possession a scrap of paper on which is writ
ten, in Ferguson's autograph, " An additional coincidence of the
number 666 in connection with the name of a man." In this
" additional coincidence," Ferguson introduces the motto on the

Palace of the Pope at Rome, viz. " Vicarivs Dei Geueralis in
Terru)," (the Vicar General of God on Earth), --

  "Vicarivs Dei Genekalis In Terris.

5,1,100, 1,5, 500, i,  50,1. i,--,                               i,-- .

Thus, 5+1+100+1+5+500+1+50+1+1+1 = 66<i.

   The Sum total of the letters in the motto ' Vicarivs Dei

Generalis In Terris ' is 666.

                                      James Ferguson, 5th Dec. 1759."

   Mechanical Paradox Orrery. --Sometime in the year                     a it,

1759, Ferguson made a new Mechanical Paradox Orrery, simi
lar to the one which he made in 1755, the only difference be
tween the two being, that in this new one the wheels are all

brass, with double the number of teeth in each of them ; and
also, in having a circular dial on the top surface of the frame
containing the wheels, directly under the Sun, the axis of the
Sun being in the centre of the dial, which has laid down on
in a series of concentric circles, a set of Lunar Tables from 1760

to 1800. This paradox orrery now in our possession --for

short description of see conclusion of note 194.
                 it,
                                     is

                                                              a
   Sun-Dials -- Models, &c. --Several of our notes show that
                                                                         A
Ferguson, during the year 1759, delineated great many pro
jections of Sun-dials, and made models of them to exhibit in

his lectures on Dialling, he having just then added that subject

to his course. Among the models he then made, we find --
Horizontal Dial, -- Vertical Dials, --A South Dial,-- Inclining
and Reclining Dials, -- Pardic's Universal Dial, &c.
244 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Dial ON a Card. -- Somewhere about the end of the year

1759, Ferguson delineated a Dial on a Card, which, when
rectified, showed The Hour of the Day, --The Time of the
Sun's Rising and Setting, --The Sun's Declination, and the

Days on which the Sun entered the Signs of the Zodiac.

The original Dial is in our possession, having been kindly
Lpresented to us by James
                           Rutherfurd, Esq., Edinburgh, in
October, 186.3. It is done on mill-board £-inch thick, 13£
inches by 9, covered with foolscap paper (on which the Dial is

delineated). James Ferguson, fecit, is lettered in the lower
left-hand corner of the dial. On the back of the dial, neatly
written by him, are the following directions :--

" How to rectify and use the Dial.

Set the cross line on the brass slider to the day of the month,

and stretch the thread from thence over the angular point XII,

where the curve lines meet ; then shift the bead on the thread
to that point, and the Dial will be rectified for the following

purposes.

   1. To find the Hour of the Day when the Sun Shines. --

Raise the Gnomon (no matter how much or how little), and hold
the edge of the Dial next the Gnomon toward the Sun, so as
the uppermost edge of the shadow may just cover the Shwlmv

Line ; and the bead then playing freely on the face of the Dial

(by the weight of a plummet hung occasionally to the thread),
will show the time of the day among the hour-lines as it is be
fore or after noon.

   2. To. find the Time of Sun-rising and Sun-setting. --
Move the thread among the hour-lines, till it either covers

some one of them or lies parallel betwixt any two ; and

then it will cut the time of Sun-rising among the forenoon

hour-lines, and of Sun-setting among the afternoon hour-
lines, for the day of the year indicated by the cross line on the

slider.

   3. To find the Sun's Declination-- Stretch the thread
over the angular point at XII, and it will cut the Sun's Decli

nation for the day of the year at which the cross line on the
slider stands.

    When the bead, rectified as above, moves along any of the
curve lines on which the Signs of the Zodiac are marked, the
JAMES FERGUSON.         245

Sun enters those Signs on the days pointed to by the cross line
on the slider.

   This Dial answers only for those Places which have the same
Latitude with London. To construct such Dials for other
Latitudes, see my Mechanical Lectures. -- James Ferguson."

    Referring to his " Mechanical Lectures," we find a description
of the dial, with two figures, showing how it is constructed.
" The Rules for Use " are nearly the same as those already given.
What follows, not in the original, but in his Lectures, being im

portant, we give as addenda, --

SHADOW LINE      a  ti

   We are told this is " a portable dial, which may be easily
drawn on a card, and carried in a pocket-book. The lines a d,

a b, and b c, of the gnomon must be cut quite through the card ;

and as the end a b of the gnomon is raised occasionally above
the plane of the dial, it turns upon the uncut line c d as on a

hinge. The line dotted A B must be slit quite through the

card, and the thread must be put through the slit, and have a
knot tied behind to keep it from being easily drawn out. On
the other end of this thread is a small plummet, and on the
246 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

middle of it a small bead tor showing the hour of the day."

(" Lectures on Select Subjects in Mechanics," &c.)
In the same year (1759), Ferguson published this Dial on a
Jcard 4£ inch by 3 inches,
    Ferguson, delin. and    having in the left hand lower corner,

                            under it Pereunt et Imputantur.

This ingenious Card-Dial has been long out of print, and is

very rarely to be had. We, however, understand that it has

frequently been copied and sold since Ferguson's time. We are

indebted to the kindness of Mr. Robert Sim, Keith, for our
copy -- it came into his hands from the last relatives of Fer

guson in Keith, and is still in excellent preservation ; the green

silk cord for the plummet and the bead being still attached

to it.

   We have no other memoranda of Ferguson for 1759, but may
add, that as his celebrated work " Lectures on Select Subjects,"

&c., was published in the following year, it is to be pre
sumed that much of his leisure time, during the later part of

1759 and the beginning of 17C0, was devoted to writing that

work, and making the drawings necessary for its illustration.

                                                     1760.

   In Memoriam. -- The following memorial-tribute to the worth

of a departed friend, was composed by Ferguson in 1760. The
original, in his own autograph, written on the inside of the
first board of the " Ferguson Bible," so often referred to, is

now in the possession of Dr. George of Keith :--

       " Mr. James Mackenzie of Oxford Road, in the Parish of St. Mary
       le bonne, Grocer, (lied the 11th February 1760. aged 25 years 5 days,
       and was interr'd in the same Parish churchyard. He was of solid
       Judgment and good sense, remarkably sober, virtuous and constant;
       a dutiful son, a loving Bror. and most sincere friend ; and may justly
       be said to have been a young man of real worth. His soul took its
       flight of a Monday a quarter past three o'clock in the afternoon
       from this Earth of trouble to a Heaven of eternal Happiness."

   Note. --One of the pall-bearers at Ferguson's funeral in 1776

is named Mackenzie, probably a relative of the subject of the
above record.

   " Lectures on Select Subjects," &c. -- In the year 1760,

Ferguson published his second-best and celebrated work, Lec

tures on Select Subjects in Mechanics, &c. Like his Astronomy,
                         JAMES FERGUSON.          *247

his Lectures are written in clear and plain language, so
much so, that the merest tyro in the sciences of which he

treats cannot possibly fail to understand the author's meaning

and demonstrations. Until lately, " The Lectures " were the
generally acknowledged text-book on Mechanics in Britain, but

the now advanced state of the sciences has called into exist

ence other works on the subjects of which it treats. This work
has gone through numerous editions. In our memor
anda, we have the following editions and dates, -- viz. 1st edi
tion, published in 1760,-- the 2d in 1764-- the 3d in 1767 --
the 4th in 1772, --the 5th in 1776, -- the 6th in 1784-- the 7th
in 1793; also, republications in 1806-- 1823-- 1825, and 1827.
The edition of 1806 is edited by " David Brewster, LL.D." (now
Sir David Brewster) in two volumes. " The Lectures " have
also been frequently published in America, and also translated

 and published in several foreign countries.

       he annexed is the title-page of Lectures on Select Subjects.

Lectures cm Select Subjects in Mechanics, Hydrostatics, Hydraul
ics, Pneumatics, and Optics, with the Use of the Globes, the Art of
Dialling, and the Calculation of the Mean Times of New and Full
Moons and Eclipses. Illustrated with Copperplates. By James
Ferguson, London, mdcclx.

   It is dedicated to " Prince Edward,"   in the  style so peculiar
to last century, --viz.
" To His Royal Highness Prince Edward, Sir, --As Heaven
has inspired your Royal Highness with such a love of

ingenious and useful arts, that you not only study their

theory, but have often condescended to honour the professors

of mechanical and experimental philosophy with your pres

Ience and particular favour, am thereby encouraged to lay

myself and the following work at your Royal Highness's

feet; 227 and at the same time beg leave to express that

veneration with which I am, Sir, your Royal Highness's

most obliged, and most obedient humble servant, James Fer

guson."

""7Princk Edwauu was the second son of Frederick, Prince of Wales
II(eldest son of George  ), was born at Norfolk House on 14th March, 1739. He
was seized with a malignant fever at Genoa, in Upper Italy, and died there on
September 17th, 1767, aged 28. He was a great patron of the arts and sciences,
               248 EXTENDKD MEMOIR OF

'a               The Armillary Trigonometer. -- Sometime in the year              is
       is
               1760, Ferguson made a model, in wood, of an Astronomical in                       ;
            is,
               strument called The Armillary Trigonometer, the invention                                                       is
               of Mr. Mungo Murray, Shipwright, at Deptford.2'2s It solved the
               following problems :--" 1st, The Time of the Day, Forenoon and     a
               Afternoon, and the Sun's true Azimuth from the South at that                   a

               time. 2d, The variation of the Compass. 3d, The time of the

               day being given, to find the Sun's altitude and azimuth at that

               time. 4th, The time of the Sun's rising and setting, on any day
               of the year, in any given North latitude less than 66i degrees.
               5th, To find when the Morning Twilight begins, and when the

               Evening ends. 6th, A place being in the north frigid zone
               (that in more than 66^ degrees of North latitude), to find on

               what day of the year the Sun begins to shine constantly on that

               place without setting; and how long he continues to do so.
               7th, How long Twilight continues at the Poles of the Earth.
               8th, The Sun's depression below the horizon, at any time of the
               night, in any given latitude, less than 66$ deg. 9th, To find in
               what North latitude the longest day of any given length less
               than 24 hours. 10th, The Sun's amplitude at rising and set

               ting, in any given latitude less than 66£ deg. 11th, The length
               of the longest day being given, at any place whose latitude
               North; to find the latitude of that place. 12th, In the Sum

               mer months, to find an East .and West line and consequently,

               a Meridian line, for a place of any given latitude. 13th, The

               distances of all the Forenoon and Afternoon hours from XII, on

                  horizontal dial, for any given latitude. 14th, The distances

               of the Forenoon and Afternoon hours from XII, on verti

               cal South dial, for any given latitude. 15th, The distances of

               the Forenoon and Afternoon hours from XII, on vertical dial,

               declining from the South toward the East or West, by any

               shven number of degrees."

                  In Tables and Tracts we are informed, " Mr. Mungo Murray,

               Shipwright, contrived very useful instrument which he calls

                Tfie Armillary Trigonometer and had some months by

               me in the year 1757. Since that time, he showed me a paste-
                                     a
                                                      ;'

                                                   I

                                                                    it

                   22s  Mr.   Mungo  ofMaunrraeyx,celalenntinwgeonrkiouesntiSthleipdw, r"igAht,TreaattiDseepotnforSdh,ipnbeuairldiLnogndaonnd.
               He       the  author

               NaiHgation, with numerous Plates and neatly-printed Tables." London, 1754.

               Price 10s.    6"d.TraiSteuppdluemNeanivtret.o  "the   Treatise mi  Shipbuilding, translnted  from  M.
               Bouguer's                                            Plates, 3s.   London, 17(i5.
                                  JAMES FERGUSON.                                                          24fl

board model of an instrument, much of the same sort, but of a

Imuch smaller size ; which, believe, he has not yet made, either

of wood or metal. And, as it is a thing that deserves well to

be known, on account of its great utility, I have made it of wood.

IThe only addition that have made to Mr. Murray's scheme is

a circular scale of the Sun's declination, for the different days
of the year, to save the trouble of referring to Tables of the
Sun's declination in printed books." (Vide " Tables and Tracts,"

pp. 80 -- 104, with copperplate of the instrument).
   The following, by Ferguson, On Colours and the Rainbow,

were extracted by us, in 1835, from the original in the posses

sion of the late Dawson Turner, Esq., of Yarmouth --both papers

are dated 1760.

    " On Colours. -- Colours produced by the mixture of colour
less fluids :---
    5. 'A.                                                                               .      . red.
   1. Spirit of wine mixed with spirit of vitriol make ;i                           ..             orange.
   2. Solution of mercury mixed with oil of tartar,                                                 yellow.
                                                                                         .
 ....Solution of sublimate and lime-water.                                                            green.
                                                                                                   purple.
   4. Tincture of roses and oil of tartar,

 ....Solution of copper and spirit of sal-ammoniac, .
    6. Tincture of roses and spirit of wine,                                        .                      blue,
                                                                                              ..
    8. 7.       Solution of sublimate and spirit of sal-ammoniac,                                          white.

                ....Solution of sugar of lead and solution of vitriol, .                .                  black.

                                           the mixture of coloured fluids --
                Colours produced  a by                                           .
                                       is is is is                                                  :
                                                 a
                                                                                                       is
    Tincture of saffron, which1.                   yellow, mixed with tincture of red
            roses, make
                           a                       ....                                                    green.
i. Tincture of violets, which a
                                                  blue, and spirit of sulphur, which

                brown, make                                                                                crimson.

                ..........Tincture of red roses, which
                           brownish, make
3.                                                red, and spirit of hartshorn, which                          blue,
            is                                                                                             purple.
                                                              ...
                                                                                    .                         green.
4. Tincture of violets, which                     blue, and solution of Hungarian         ..                yellow.

                vitriol, which blue, make                                                                         red.
                             is                                         .        .
                                                                             is
                Tincture of cyanus (blue-bottle flower), which                   blue, and spirit
                      of sal-ammoniac coloured blue, make a
7. 5.                                                                   .
           is is
G. Solution of Hungarian vitriol, which blue, and lixivium, whichis

                  brown, make a

                Tincture of cyanus, which blue, and solution of copper, which
                               a
                  green, make                 is

                Colours Changed and Restored --
                                           is
                                                               :
                Solution of copper, which         green, by spirit of nitre             made colourless;
i. 1.                                                                               is
                    is
                nd again restored by oil of tartar.

                Limpid infusion of galls made black by solution of vitriol, and trims-
                  parent again by oil of vitriol and then black again by oil of tartar.
                                  is
                                            ;

                                           I2
                                                                     a
250 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

3. Tincture of red roses is made black by a solution of vitriol, and becomes
       red again by oil of tartar.

4. A slight tincture of red roses by spirit of vitriol becomes a fine red ; then,
       by spirit of sal-ammoniac turns green ; and then by oil of vitriol becomes

        red again.
5. Solution of verdigris, which is green, by spirit of vitriol becomes colour

       less; then by spirit of sal-ammoniac becomes purple; and then by oil of
       vitriol becomes colourless again.

   On THE Rainbow. --The proportional breadth of each colour

in the Rainbow, supposing the whole breadth thereof to be
divided into 300 equal parts.

                 The red is found to have 45 parts.

                 The orange ,, 27

                 The yellow  ,, 48

                 The green   ,, 6</

                 The blue    ,, 60

                 The indigo  ,, 40

                 The violet  ,, 80

                             Total, 360

If the flat upper surface of a top be divided into 360 equal

parts, all round its edge, and be divided by 7 lines into so many

portions or sectors of circles, in the above proportions, and the

respective colours be lively painted in these spaces, but so as
the edge of each colour may be made nearly like the colour

next adjoining, that the separation may not be well distinguish

ed by the eye ; and the top be made to spin, all these colours
together will so blend as to appear white. And if a large round

black spot be painted in the middle, so as there may be only a
broad flat ring of colours around the experiment will succeed
                             it,
the better.                                       by

Red the least refrangible of all the colours, orange next,
; is
and violet the most of all.

Mr. Edward Delaval, F.R.S., has found,                experiments on

melting different metals with pure glass, that they colour the

glass according to their different densities or specific gravities                              ;

the most dense giving a red colour to the glass, and the least, a

blue or violet.

Thus, gold melted with glass, gives an orange colour; silver
                             a
                                 it
a yellow copper a green, and iron blue colour.
                                                          James Ferguson.

                                                                          London, June, 1760."
Vide also " Tables and Tracts," pp. 296--298.
JAMES FERGUSON.                                                     251

   Ferguson Abandons the Profession of Limner. -- In

his Memoir, he mentions that he followed his profession
of limner for 26 years. He adopted this profession when in
Edinburgh in 1734; consequently, he abandoned it in 1760

--now confining his whole attention to that of Lecturer on
Experimental Philosophy and Astronomy. In the art of limning,

Ferguson says, " he never strove to excel," as his mind was ever

"pursuing things more agreeable;" besides, his sight was be

ginning to fail ; and in 1738, in his letter which we have quoted
under that date, he had then little or no business as a limner.

In this letter of 1758 he says that he had not drawn " six pictures

these last twelvemonths'' These facts before him were bright

ened by the success of his Astronomy --he had sold the remain

der of his right in that work to his publisher for £300, and
it is understood that he, in 1760, received about £350 for the

copyright of his Lectures on Select Subjects in Mechanics, &c.,
(then just published)-- shows that, when he abandoned his old
profession of limner in 1760, he had about £650 at command,

and as a Lecturer on Experimental Philosophy and Astronomy

he was meeting with great success.

    The only other memoranda which we have of Ferguson for
1760 is in the shape of an advertisement of what he taught in

1760, and his fees for the same, -- viz.

" Mr. Ferguson teaches the Use of the Globes in a Month, atteiul-
ing one Hour every Day (Sunday crxepted) for Two Guineas at home,
ifor Four Guineas abroad,
                            not more than a mile from his houre.
Those who are taught abroad provide Globes for themselves. He
also teaches Practical Geometry by the Scale and Compasses, the
Construction of Maps, the Projection of the Sphere, the Principles
of Dialing, and the Calculation of New and Full Moons and Eclip

ses ; on the same Terms.''

    The above is extracted from a mutilated printed hand-bill
of date 1760. See also the advertisement on the fly-leaf, in
his " Analysis of a Course of Lectures." Printed at Bristol in

1763.

                                                     1761.

   Ferguson's Residence, 1761. -- In Kent's London Directory

for the year 1761, is inserted the following entry of his

residence, -- viz.

(1761). -- "James Ferguson, Astronomer, Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury."
252 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

In 1761 it would appear, from an advertisement at the foot of

one of his publications of this year, that he either had a resi

dence in Red-Lion Court, Fleet Street, London, or had a room
in that Court as a Class-room. A quarto work published by
Ferguson early in 1761, entitled, "A Plain Method of Deter
mining tlie Parallax     of Venus," has the following at foot        of
title-page :-- " London  : Printed for, and sold by the Author,      in

Red-Lion Court, Opposite Serjeant's Inn, Fleet Street."

   Pamphlet on the Parallax of Venus, published in quarto.
--This pamphlet, published by Ferguson early in 1761, is

a thin quarto of 54 pages, with 4 illustrative folding-plates,

shows how to determine the Parallax of Venus by the then

forthcoming transit of that planet over the Sun's disc, calculated

to take place on June 6th, 1761; and consequently, the Dis

tances of all the Planets from the Sun.  This work is now very

scarce ; the title is as follows :--

" A Plain Method of determining the Parallax of Venus by her
Transit over the San, and from theme, by Analogy, the Parallax
and Distance of the Sun, and of all the rest of the Planets. By
James Ferguson. London : Printed for and sold by the Author,
in Red-Lion Court, Opposite Serjeant's Inn, Fleet Street; and also
by Mr. Millar, Bookseller in the Strand ; Mr. Nairn, Optician, near
the Royal Exchange ; and Mr. Watkins, Optician, near Charing

Cross. MDCCLXI."

  It appears to have been published in February, 1761, as it is

then, for the first time, advertised in the Gentleman's Magazine,
vol. 31, p. 95, Feb. 1761.

   The following curious calculations on the Cycles of the Sun,
Moon, and Roman Iudiction, are taken from a copy we made
in 1834 from the original in the possession of William Upcott,
Esq., Islington, London. They were made by Ferguson in
1761. We observe a similar calculation in his " Common Place
Book " without a date.

  "A Problem. --The Cycle of the Sun is 28 Years, --the

Cycle of the Moon 19 Years, --and the Roman Indiction 15

Years. Now, supposing all these Cycles to begin together, or

to be 1 each; -- Query, In what time afterwards will they all
begin together again, and how many Revolutions will each

Cycle have then made ?
                   JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                            253

     £Years.             = --, by the method of solving

Let a = 28 £± = 22, and
                 such Questions.
& = 19 =2128 and 2565 by cross multiplication of the

          denominators into the numerators,

c = 15 =112 and 135, in lowest terms, by their greatest

          common divisor, which is 19.

Then a 6=532 And TMI|^=??^I2=7980 years, the time when
          the Cycles will  btheeginrevto. goefthaer"TMag=ain4. 20
             = 285 years,
o_&=   91.                                                                years

           4the rev. of  and '||0= 532                                    the rev. of c.
                   Ig?

                                    is ;6

                                                                                    y.
                                                                                                                                       ;
6-c=285 So that the Cycle of the Sun will have gone

b-c=         through 285 periods.

          revolutions, -- the Cycle of the Moon 420, -- And

the Roman Indiction through 532. And axbxc = 7980 years,
but =
       So that there but one Conjunction of all these

three Cycles in the multiplication of them all into one another,

which, by the foregoing calculations will appear very singular.
This 7980 years make the Great Julian Period, in which there

are not any two years wherein all the three Cycles will be equal.
                                   James Ferguson, 11 May, 1761."

   (See also his MS. " Common Place Book" Col. Lib. Edin.,

p.
                                                                    x is
     172).

   We may here note that as the years 28, 19, and 15 are
prime to each other, nothing more necessary than to mul
tiply them into each other, -- 28 x 19 15 = 7980, the years in
Julian Period-- then 7980-^28 = 285 rev. of Solar Cycle. 7980
-^19 = 420 = rev. of Lunar Cycle, and 7980^-15 = 532 rev. of
Indiction --respectively in the great period of 7980 years.

On the back of the half sheet of paper on which the foregoing
written, we found the following somewhat similar sort of cal
is
              a

                                               5

                                                                          it
                                                                                       B, is

                                                                                                          C,
culation on the conjunctive period of three hands on the dial-
plate of clock, which at same was time copied--
                                                                          entitled,

" The Question on the Conjunctive Period of the Three Hands Answered."

"Supposing a Clock to have three hands A,                                                                     all

going the same way round the Dial-plate. That A goes

round in 365 days  hours 48 minutes 54 seconds (or

31556934 seconds), the time in which the Sun goes round the
254 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Ecliptic, or length of the Solar Tropical year. That B goes

round in 27 days 7 hours 43 minutes 5 seconds (or 2360585
seconds), the time in which the Moon goes round the Ecliptic ;
Ifand that C goes round in 7 days (or 604800 seconds.
                                                       all these

hands set out from a conjunction at any one point of the Dial-
plate ; Query, In what time afterward will they all come to a

conjunction again, at the very same point of the plate, and how

many revolutions will each have then made?

Multiplv the Solar Year A=  31.r>56!>34
By the Lunar Revolution B=    2360585

The Product will be         744928250463IH)     Seconds.
Mult, this Product by the Week-hand C = 604800

       And the Product will be=45053260.->88056672OO0

Which is the number of seconds, in the Grand Period, or time
in which all the three hands will be in a conjunction again at
the same point of the Dial-plate they set out from at first.

   Divide this period by A = 31556934, and the quotient will

be 1427681808000 for the number of Solar Tropical Years con

tained in it ; equal to the number of revolutions of the hand A

in that time.
   Divide the same period by B = 2360585, and the quotient

will be 19085633683200, for the number of revolutions of the
Moon, in that period of so many Solar Tropical Years.

   Divide the same period by C = 604800, the number of
seconds in a week, and the quotient will be 74492825046390,
which is the number of revolutions of the hand C, or number of

weeks in the Grand Period.

   Hence, if the Sun and Moon were in conjunction at any as
signed instant of a given Day of the Year and Week, they

would not be in conjunction again, at the like instant of the
same Day of the Year and Week, in less than 1427681808000
Solar Tropical Years. This period contains 1427651677822
.Julian years 2 days 10 hours 40 min. 48 sec.

                                      James Ferguson, 14 May, 1761."
(See also Ferguson's MS. " Common Place Book," Col. Lib.
Edin., from page pasted on the inside of the first board, in

which the paper is simply entitled, "A Question Answered!')

Ferguson Lectures on Astronomy, &c., in London and the
           JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                        255

PROVINCES. -- During the first months of the year 1761, Fergu

son delivered a great many Lectures on Astronomy, &c, in

London and the provinces, particularly explaining and illustrat
ing, by diagrams, the then forthcoming Transit of Venus over

the Sun's disc, to take place on 6th June, 1761. In March,
1761, we find him lecturing in Chelmsford, from which place he

addresses Mr. Urban, of the Gentleman's Magazine, on the
subject of Twilight. The following is a copy of his note accom

panying this communication :--

If" Mr. Urban, -- Sir, -- the following on the Twilight, &c., be

found sufficiently curious and entertaining to merit a space in your
                                                             they are at your service. -- Yours,
J.learned  Faenrdguisnogne.ni--ouCs heClmolslefoctrido,n,  March 8th, 1761."

&c.,                                                       (Gent. Mag. Vol. 31, p. 124).

   This paper on Twilight occupies two columns of the Gentle
man's Magazine, at page noted.

   Transit of Venus over the Sun's Disc, June 6th, 1761. --

For a considerable length of time before June 6th, 1761, the

subject of the expected Transit of Venus had excited very gene
ral interest and speculation. When "the Transit-Day" ar
rived, many parties all over the country were early on the
alert on the morning of Saturday, June 6th, in order to get a

glimpse of the rare sight. Ferguson, on this occasion had his
station, with other observers, on the top of the British Museum,

as the following extracts from the manuscript papers of the
Royal Society will show.

   " Observations on the Transit of Venus over the Disc of the
Sun on Saturday morning, the 6th June, 1761:

                     Interior Contact 17A minutes past 8 o'clock a.m.
                     Exterior Contact 34 minutes past 8 o'clock A.M.

    " The Watch, corrected by a meridian in the Museum and by
a line drawn circumscribing the shadow of the Door on the
Leads.

" Dr.      Woulfe ; from           Present
                          Poland.

Mr. Moore; of Jermyn Street.

Mr. Ferguson ; Russell Street, Bloomsbury.
Dr. Morton ; of the Museum.

Wortley Montague ; Esq.
256 EXTENDED MEMOIK OF

Mr. James Empson ; of the Museum.
Stephen Fuller, Esqr. of Hart Street, Bloomsbury.
Revd. Mr. Forster ; Rector of Chisleborough, Somerset."

(Vide manuscript papers of the Royal Society, Dr. Birch's Collec
t"ioOnb, sBerrvitaitsiohnsMusoefumth,e  being additional MS. No. 4440, 604, entitled,
                                        Transit of Venus over the Sun's Disk, June
6th, 1761, at the British Museum.")

Then follows, --
   " Mr. James Ferguson's own remarks on the foregoing obser

vations,-- viz.

  "The idea I had formed of the internal contact was that

the planet would touch the edge of the Sun in an instant,

Ilike two drops of quicksilver meeting on a plane, and that

in an instant the black contact would appear; but in this

was deceived, the particulars of the phenomenon being as

follows :--
   " June 6th heavy with clouds, till six o'clock, when the clouds

began to dissipate, but not enough to afford a plain sight of

IVenus on the Sun, till more than £ past seven, and the planet

got nearer the limb of the Sun, than had described to see it

on the disk.

   "With a Six-feet Reflector, and its magnifying power of 110

and also 220 times, I carefully examined the Sun's disk to dis
Icover a satellite of Venus, but saw none ; for had a very clear

dark glass next my eye, and the Sun's limb appeared most per

fectly defined, and at the distance of about a sixth part of
Venus's diameter from its edge, was the darkest part of Venus's
phasis, from which, to the centre, an imperfect light increased
and illuminated about the centre.

  I"At 8ho- 16m- per clock from the top of the Museum, was

prepared to observe the internal contact ; and as Venus drew
nearer to the limb of the Sun, the penumbra near the limb of
Venus became darker, and threatened to obscure the point of
contact at the instant it would happen ; the circumstances of

which, for each of the moments of time, are imperfectly deline
ated, on account of the nearness of the lines ; but more truly de

scribed as follows ; (a right line representing that part of the
Sun's limb near where the contact happened, and an arc, the

approaching limb of Venus, -- for each three seconds of time,

from the loss of the thread of light) in words for each second of

time by the clock, thus :--
                           JAMES FERGUSON.                             257

ho. m. s.
At 8 16 41 no diminution of light between the limb of Venus and that of the Sun.
8 16 42 slight penumbra, diminution of light, where the contact was to he.
8 16 43 penumbra of a grey colour near the same place.
8 16 44 penumbra almost brown, and thread of light very narrow, and almost
           lost.

8 16 45 penumbra brown, and the thread of light in the contact point indis
           tinct or lost.
           penumbra more brown, and the touch the smallest possible.
8 16 46    penumbra almost black, and the touch a little broader.
8 16 47    slight black in the point of contact, and the edges a little broader.
8 16 48    true black in the pomt of contact, and the edges a little broader.
8 16 49

8 16 50 more so I Hcrelconcludedwithmyselfthatobserverswoulddifl'erin  their

8 16 51 more so / judgments about the momentof contact, some seconds of time,
8 16 52 more so ( or that some would estimate the contact sooner than others.

IFrom these observations,  concluded that the thread of light

in the point of contact was so obscured as to be indiscernible at

8n- 16m- 46s-, and that true black did not succeed in the same

point till 3<*c- after, -- namely, 8h- l6TM. 49sec- ; and from both of

these properties, I concluded that the real internal contact was

Unat 8h- 16m- 47sec- by the clock; which makes 8h- l6m-

equal time, and 8n- 18m. 2sec. apparent time at Greenwich.

   " At 8n»- 3.5mi»- per clock, the external contact was near and

not encumbered with such a penumbra, or partial light, as the

internal contact had been. At 8no- 35In- 4s- the least dent pos

sible quite black, appeared in the Sun's limb, and at 8l1- 35m- 6s-

the limb was restored to its perfect form, there having been a

small trembling light between the narrow watery border of Venus,

and the vanishing point of contact in the Sun's limb for these

two seconds of time, from which the external contact at Chelsea

was 8n- 34TM- 30s- apparent time ; which makes 8n- 37m- 29- ap
parent time at Greenwich. From the aforegoing circumstances,
it appeared to me that the external contact was more easily to

Ibe determined than the internal one, which was contrary to

what had before expected ; and because the point of contact

Imust have appeared through such a telescope as observed

Iwith, in its proper colour, dark or black, sooner than through a
small magnifying power of equal light,                  concluded that,

through my telescope, the internal contact was visible sooner

than through a two-foot reflector, ten or twelve seconds of

time.
   " As these observations reconcile a seeming contradiction in

Mr. Short's numbers of the internal contact, and, whilst I am

very certain with respect to the particulars of the external con
                                                 2K
258 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

tact, cannot determine why they differ from that ingenious ob

server's numbers, or any others.  James Ferguson."

   Projection of the Transit of Venus. --The annexed cut

exhibits the Sun and the path of Venus over his disc, as seen at
London on Saturday morning, June 6th, 1761, at the times
mentioned by Ferguson in the foregoing account of the transit

    Projection of the Transit of Venus over the Sun's Disc, 6 June. 1761, seen from
                         about 12 min. of 4 morning until S hours 44 min. do.

   Note. -- The white disc represents the Sun --the dark spot
under 4 the position of Venus on the Sun at Sunrise --the black

small spot to the right of 8 o'clock, Venus at the termination of
the transit

   Capel Lofft, in his " Poem on the Universe" referring to this
transit, says, --

                     " England and rival France, admiring, watch d
                        The important prodigy; when the firth day
                        Had dawn'd propitious on the Junian month.
                        Let me explain the cause and the design
                        Which pointed Observation's eagle eye
                        To this phenomenon; and thou direet
                        O Ferguson ! than whose no beam more clear
                            Pierces the gloom, where science is conccal'd."
                                 Etidosia, or a Poem on the Universe, Book 2d, p. 41
                                                           (by Capel L>fft, Esq., 1781).

   Royal Pension. --According to several memoranda, it would
        JAMES FERGUSON.                                  259

appear, that on or about 20th June, 1761, Ferguson received

official intimation that his Majesty (Geo. III.) had graciously

bestowed on him an annuity of £50 a-year. The first half-
year's payment of £25 was tendered to Ferguson on January
22d, 1762, to which date we refer.

   Multum IN Parvo. -- We have in our possession one of Fer
guson's manuscripts with this title-- (much in little space).
It contains eight different articles, which occupy about a page
and a half of foolscap paper, and bears the date of Dec. 1761.

The following is a copy :

   1. " On the Quantity of Land and Water on the Earth's
Surface. -- The Seas and unknown parts of the Earth (by a

measurement of the best maps) contain 160,522,026 square

miles.  The inhabited parts, 38,990,569.  Europe contains

4,456,065 ; Asia, 10,768,823 ; Africa, 9,564,807 ; and America,

14,110,874 square miles. In all, 199,512,595; which is the

number of square miles on the whole of the Earth's surface."

We may here observe that a globe whose surface contains

199,512,595 square miles, must have a diameter of 7,964^ miles

nearly -- the most accurate measure of the Earth's mean dia

meter is 7,912 miles, or 57£ miles less than the above.

   2. " On the Velocity of Light. -- It has been proved, by the

Eclipses of Jupiter's satellites, that light takes 8 minutes of
time to come from the Sun to the Earth. And as the Earth's
distance from the Sun is 95,000,000 miles, in round numbers,
'tis plain that the velocity of light is 11,875,000 miles in a
minute; and consequently, 197,916 miles in a second, which is
1,486,458 times as swift as the motion of a cannon ball, and
10,440 times as swift as the Earth moves in its annual orbit."

  3. " On the Velocity of a Cannon Ball compared with
the Equatorial parts of the Earth. -- The Earth's circumfer

ence, in the nearest round numbers, is 25,000 English miles ;

and the mean velocity of a cannon ball is 8 miles per minute.
Divide 25,000 by 8, and the quotient will be 3,125 for the num
ber of minutes in which a cannon ball would go round the
Earth. But as the Earth turns round its axis in 1,440 minutes
260 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

(or 24 hours), every place on the Equator goes through 17 361
miles per minute. Therefore, the velocity of the Equatorial
parts of the Earth is to the velocity of a cannon ball as 17 '361
is to 8, or as 217 is to 1. So that any place on the Equator
moves with somewhat more than double the velocity of a can
non ball."

   4. " On the Velocity of Sound.-- According to Dr. Halley,

Mr. Flamsteed, and Dr. Derham, sound moves 1,142 feet in a
second of time, 68,520 feet in a minute, and 778,636 miles in
an hour. Hence we know how far a thunder cloud is from us,
if we have a watch that shows seconds. Thus, suppose there
were four seconds from the moment we see the flash of lightning
to the moment we hear the clap of thunder, 'tis plain that the
cloud which produced the thunder is four times 1,142 feet, or
about 4,568 feet from us, which is about four-fifths of a mile.

   As just observed, sound moves with a velocity of 1,142 feet

in a second of time, and consequently, 5,280 feet --or 1 mile --
in 4 '631579 seconds. If a pinion of 19 leaves turns round in a

second of time, and takes into a wheel of 88 teeth, it will turn
that wheel round in 4 631579 seconds."

    5. " On the Diameter and Circumference of the visible part

of a cloudy Sky. -- The greatest distance of the cloud from the

horizon at sea is 94 miles from the diameter all around ; and
consequently, the whole extent or diameter of the horizon,
reaching to the clouds, is 188 miles; and the circumference
thereof is 590 97 miles.''

   This ought to be 590 63 miles. -- Edit.

   6. "On the Weight of the whole Atmosphere. --On a

square inch, the weight is 15 pounds; on a square foot. 2,160;
on a square yard, 19,440; on a square mile, 60,217.344,000;
and on the whole surface of the Earth and Sea together
 1 2,014,118,565,447,680,000 pounds.

    The surface of the body of a middlc-siz'd man is about 14
square feet; and as the weight or pressure of the air is equal to
2.160 pounds on every square foot on, or near, the Earth's sur
face; and as the pressure of the air is equal in all directions, its
pressure on the whole body of a middlc-siz'd man is equal to
JAMES FERGUSON.  201

30,240 pounds, or 13£ tons. But, because the spring of the in
ternal air is of equal force with the pressure of the external, the

pressure is not felt."
   Referring to No. 1, it will be seen that the Earth's surface

contains 199,512,595 square miles ; therefore, 199,512,595

x 60,217,344,000= 12,014,118,565,447,680,000 pounds.-- Edit.

   7. " On Squaring the Circle. -- Although there has not yet

been any method found for doing this to mathematical exact
ness, yet, by means of the following numbers, it may be brought
so very near the truth as to be within a grain of sand in a

square mile, supposing 100 grains of sand -- placed on a straight

line, and touching one another-- to be equal to the length of an

inch ; and consequently, 40,144,896,000,000 to cover a square

mile.

  If the diameter of a circle be given, and the length of the

side of a square so nearly equal to the circle as to be true to 14
places of figures be required ; say, As 1 is to the diameter of the
given circle, so is 0 88622692545276 to the side of the square re
quired, in such measures as the diameter of the circle was taken.

  If the length of the side of a square be given, and the dia

meter of a circle equal-- as nearly as above-mentioned --to the
square be required ; say, As 1 is to the side of the given square,

taken in any measure, as feet, inches, &c., so is 1 12837916709551

to the diameter of a circle -- taken in the same kind of measures
--whose area is equal to the area of the given square.

   In practice, it is sufficient to take out the decimal parts to

four places of figures ; for, even by so small a number, we come
so near the truth as to be within a ten thousandth part of the
whole area of being perfectly true. And this is nearer than any

one can pretend to delineate on paper.
    Thus, supposing the diameter of a circle to be 12 inches, and

that it is required to find the length of the side of a square --or
make a square -- whose area shall be equal to the area of the

circle ; say, As 1 is to 12, so is 8862 to 10 6344 inches, the length
of the side of the square required. Or, supposing the side of a
square to be 12 inches, and that it is required to find the dia
meter of a circle whose area shall be equal to the area of a

square ; say, As 1 is to 12, so is 1 1284 (instead of 1 128379) to
13 5408 inches, the diameter of the circle required.
2C2 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   Hence, as a square vessel, just one foot wide and one foot
deep, would hold a cubic foot of water, a cylindrical vessel 13'54
inches in diameter and one foot deep would hold a cubic foot of
water too ; at least so near the truth, that no difference could

be perceived.
   The diameter of any circle is in proportion to its circumfer

ence, as 1 is to 31415926535897932384626434, &c., or as 1 is

to 31416, near enough for practice.

   Any circle is equal to a parallelogram, whose length is equal
to half the circumference of the circle, and breadth equal to half
the diameter. Therefore, multiply half the circumference by
half the diameter, and the product shall be equal to the area of
the circle, in square measure. The square root of this area is
the side of a square equal to the circle. Also, multiply the
square of the diameter by 31416 and the product will be the

area."

8. " Philosophical Propositions. --

                    Rules.

1st, No more onuses of natural appearances are to be admitted than what are

            real, and sufficient to account for these appearances.
2d, Natural effects of the same sort are to be accounted for by the same

causes.

3d, Such qualities as are found to belong to all bodies that we can make ex
periments upon, are to be looked upon as qualities belonging to all
                                     James Ferguson.
bodies whatsoever.

                                     London, 9 Dec. 1761."

On looking into " Tables and Tracts," we find Nos. 1, 2, 4,

5, 6, discussed therein inter pp. 300 -- 303. No. 7 will be found
in his "Select Mechanical Exercises," pp. 126 -- 129, and Nos. 3

and 8 in his MS. " Common Place Book," (Col. Lib. Edin.) pp. 47
and 195.

   Electrical Machine, &c. -- Referring to our memoranda, we

find that, in the year 1761, being desirous of extending his
course of lectures, so as to embrace the subject of Electricity, he
purchased from Mr. Nairne, Philosophical Instrument Maker,
Cornhill, London, an Electrical Machine and apparatus for ex

periments. It is very probable that this is the Electrical
Machine and apparatus we find in Plate 1st of his "Introduc

tion to Electricity," published in 1770.
          JAMES FERGUSON.                         2G3

                                                      1762.

   Royal Pension to Ferguson. -- In searching among the

State Papers in the State Paper Office, for 1762, we found
an entry of date January 22d, 1762, as that on which he
was paid his first half-year's pension from the King's Privy

Purse. The entry is as follows :--

                                  " Privy Purse Accounts, 1762.

          Jan>'. 22d. Pensions.
                   Mr. James Ferguson, £25."

again on  " July 24th, Mr. James Ferguson, £25."

   The last payment from the Privy Purse was made to him

about four months before his death, viz. " July 26th, 1776,

Mr. James Ferguson, £25."

   This pension placed Ferguson on firm ground, and at same
time gave him a position in the world honourable to himself,
and of advantage in prosecuting his profession of lecturer on
Astronomy and other branches of science. His pecuniary
difficulties were now at an end, and from this date, says an
old friend of his, " Iie went ever on afterwards prospering and
to prosper!'

   The kindness of "the good old king" placed Ferguson in
easy circumstances, and when at any time in his after life the
Royal pension was alluded to, " he expressed himself as
being under the deepest obligations of gratitude to his Majesty,
as it had made him easy and comfortable." (See letter in

Appendix).

   The total sum received by him --from " the Privy Purse "--
from first payment on 22d January, 1762, to 26 July 1776, in
clusive, was £750; having drawn his pension for 15 years at

the rate of £50 per annum.

   Planetarium. -- In the year 1762, Ferguson was busily en
gaged upon a Planetarium for " showing the periodical revolu
tions of the Earth and all the other planets round the Sun, in
a Clock, so as to agree nearly vnth the periodical revolutions
of the planets about the Sun in the Heavens." The following

is the description he gives of this machine, but as there is no
plate of the wheel-work, we have made a sectional view to enable
20+ EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

the leader the more readily to understand its arrangement
while he reads the description.

   Ferguson says, " Let six hollow sockets, or arbors, be made to
tit and turn within one another, and all of them to turn upon a
fixed spindle, or axis; on the top of which let there be a ball to
represent the Sun. Let the widest arbor be the shortest, and
have an arm on its uppermost end to carry a ball representing
Saturn, and a wheel of 206 teeth on its lowermost end.

        Section of the Wheel-work of Ferguson's Planetarium.

Let the next sized arbor be so much longer than the above

one, as to have a wheel (of 83 teeth) put upon                                  below the
                 it

                              s,
                                                           a

                                                                           it,
wheel of 206, and an arm on the other end (above Saturn's) for

carrying a ball to represent Jupiter.

Let the third socket be so much longer than the second, as

to have a wheel on (of 47 teeth) below the wheel of 83, and
an arm on its other end, above Jupiter's for carrying a ball to

represent Mars.

Let the fourth arbor be so much longer than the third, as to

have a wheel (of 40 teeth) on its lower end, and an arm on its
upper end, above Mars' for carrying ball to represent the

Earth.

Let the fifth arbor be so much longer than the fourth, as to

have a wheel (of 32 teeth) on its lower end, below the wheel of
40, and an arm on its upper end, above the Earth's, for carry

ing a ball to represent the planet Venus.
                          JAMES FERGUSON.                                           265

   Let the sixth (which is the smallest) arhor, be so much longer
than the fifth, as to have a wheel (of 20 teeth) on its lower end

below the wheel of 32, and an arm on its upper end, abovo

Venus' s, for carrying a ball to represent the planet Mercury.

Saturn's arm must be the longest of all, because that planet

is the farthest of all from the Sun ; 229 Jupiter's the next longest,

Mars's the next, the Earth's the next, Venus's the next, and

Mercury's the next or shortest of all, because Mercury is the

nearest of all the planets to the Sun.230

The wheels must be fixed on their respective arbors, and

diminish in their sizes from the highest numbers to the lowest ;

so that, when they are all put together, they may form some

what of the appearance of a cone.

And, to give these wheels and planets their proper motions,

they must be turned by six wheels (or rather four wheels and
two pinions), all fixed on one solid axis, in a conical manner,

inverted with respect to the other six wheels, so as the wheels

and pinions on the solid axis may take into those on the arbors,

and turn them.

The solid axis, with all its wheels and pinions, will turn round

in the same time together, because the wheels and pinions are

all feed on the axis, and must be turned round once in a year

by clock-work.

   Then, if the uppermost and smallest pinion on the axis has

7 leaves, taking into Saturn's wheel of 206 teeth, Saturn will be

carried round the Sun in 10,748 days 18 hours 43 minutes ; for

as 7 is to 206, so is 36525 to 1074878.

  If the next pinion on the axis (which must be bigger size

than the pinion of 7 above                      has leaves also, and takes into
                                                ;

                                                  it)
                                                               7

                                                                               ;
upiter's wheel of 83 teeth Jupiter will be carried round the
J
Sun in 4,330 days 19 hours 40 minutes for as                                      to 83, so
              is                                                                  7
365-25 to 4,330 82.
             It                                                                      is is
  If the wheel below this pinion on the axis has 25 teeth, and
                      is                                                                                ;
takes into Mars's wheel of 47, Mars will be carried round the                                           it

                                                                                                           is is
Sun in 686 days 16 hours minutes for, as 25 to 47, so
                          d.
365 25 to 686-67.               a

                                     h.
                                          is
                                              a3

                                                  2

                                               L

                                                                        ;
S29 In Ferguson's time, Saturn was the most distant known planet from the
Sun. Since his day, Uranus, Neptune, and nearly 100 asteroids have been dis
covered, regarding which, see recent works on Astronomy.
                          suspected that there  planet between Mercury and the Sun
                                                                                    has

even been stated that such planet has been seen and that its period round the

Sun performed in 1U 17
266 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

  If the next bigger wheel on the axis, which turns round in

365 25 days, has 40 teeth, and takes into the Earth's wheel of
40 teeth, the Earth will be carried round the Sun in 365'25

Ifdays (365 days 6 hours).

        the next bigger wheel has 52 teeth, and takes into Venus's
wheel of 32 teeth, Venus will be carried round the Sun in 224

days 18 hours 29 minutes; for, as 52 is to 32, so is 365*25 to

22477.
   And lastly, if the largest wheel on the axis has 83 teeth, and

takes into Mercury's wheel of 20, Mercury will be carried round
the Sun in 88 days 0 hours 14 minutes; for, as 83 is to 20, so
is 365 25 to 88 01.W1

   I have seen a calculation of this sort in a printed book ; but
the numbers there are so faulty for Mars and Saturn, that I

was obliged to alter them, Saturn's period being wrong by 51
days. How near these are to the truth will appear by compar
ing them with the annual periods in the following Table."
(Ferguson's " Tables and Tracts " Lond., 1767, pp. 129--134).

    In this Planetarium, the revolution of the planets round the
Sun extends to that of Saturn only. To bring it up to the pre
sent day, we have calculated wheel- work for the periods of Uranus
and Neptune, as is shown in the engraving, above wheel 206.

    Thus, on Saturn's wheel of 206 teeth is made fast a small

wheel of 13 teeth, which turns round with wheel 206 in Saturn's

period of 10748 78 days, and drives a wheel of 37 teeth, to
which is riveted a wheel of 30, which drives another wheel of

30 round in 30592 68 days, or 30592 days 16 hours 19 minutes.
On the first mentioned wheel of 30 there is riveted a wheel of

29, which turns a wheel of 57 once round in 60130 44 days, or

231 The diunial rotation of Mercury is an 'omplished m 24 h. 5 m. 28 s. Hourly
motion of Mercury's equator, 407 miles. Saturn's rotation is performed in 10 h.
16 m. 2 s. Hourly motion of Equator, '2*!,730 miles. It maybe here remark
ed, that  wheel-work of           numbers than those                   by Ferguson would
produce   more accurate  higher   -- thus, for example,  given here    Mercury's wheel of
                         periods                          instead of

'20 being driven by a wheel of 83, let a wheel of 33 be used instead of 20, and a
wheel of 137 for that of 83, and the result will be 87 d. 23 h. 28 m. for Mercury's

period. Some years ago we sent a sectional plan of the wheel-work of a planet
arium, for showing the motions of Mercury, Venus, the Earth, Mars, Jupiter,
Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune, to an Orrery maker in London, and we believe he
now makes them with these higher numbers and with the additional planets.

The wheel-work is enclosed within a circular box supported on a tripod stand.
The Sun is a large gilded ball, the planets, of ivory, set in motion by a spring
                                            for one he                    In Ferguson's MS.
c"loCcokm, manodn  the price he  charged  82 and 189,   made was £26.  sketches of a Planet
                   Place Book,"   at pp.                we find rough

arium, with wheels <,y for Mercury's period.
in 84 years (Uranus's period), and about                 60130 days 10 hours 33 minutes, being alxmt days too slow                                   6S      x a: ^ -5 -S       a   | .2 -3c £a              3g                       "3        i1 C u  >£ $ £  *3a             0Si0O 43        J& s3
                                                                                                                                                                           oC                                                        C
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ® CO W CO
                                                                                                                                                       ^                           m                 Ss ^                    O fl                                .a
                                                                                                                                                                                                 "53 J>
                                                                                                                                                     D                     os                                            -2 0) >                                o>

                                                                                                                                          g5 So                                -                                                           a                    x
                                                                                                                                                                           '1
                                                                                                                                   ,b                                                                                                     O 0)
                                                                                                                                                                           S                                                                                  -a

                                                                                                                                                 «a                          5
                                                                                                                                                                           £

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C*"---- w2!.2 Eill£3.The nuni berof miles Their dailyJAMES FERGUSON.
                                                                                                                                                     5s                                                                                                                          they move in each mean motiuns
                                                                                                                                                                                               £353i-                                                                           hour in theirorbits. in their orbits.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S3

                                                                                                                                                                              'St

                                                                                                                                                                                                             ±£3
                                                                                                                                                                                            1u 1a3oC

                                                                                                                                                                         J5
                                                                                                                                                                   sis
                                                                                                                                                                      33!
                                                                                                                                                              'Mi

                                                                                                                                          IItl!l

                                                                                                                                                       

                                                                                                                                   1*

                                                   s                                                                               unknown                                     Miles,            Parts.                  3 , 8                  3 7,                            English Miles.           3
                                                        *                                                                           8h.                                    unknown                 387                                                                             6 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                   733
                                        t5 5                                                                        S> E-           0 m.                                             3                                   68,8,86                33,3,8                          8 ,                      88
                                                                                                                                               m.  d. h. h.                                      
                                             3                                                                              *                                                                    37                      ,,,3,                  8,3,86                          683                   
                                                                                                                                   unknown                                                       0
                                        in                                                                                     J.                                                                ,                    ,-,,,8                    ,                               87                    3 7
                                                                                                                                                                           unknown
days too fast                                                                                                       1-5 05                                                                                            ,,76 3,1,37,8                                             83-6                     

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7,,-                ,77,,8,                               -6                       

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       267
208 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Neptune's period of 165 years, which is near enough for motions
produced by simple pairs of wheels. For a Planetarium, with very

accurate wheel-work and periods, we refer the reader to Dr. Dick's

" Practical Astronomer," (pp. 528 --537) where will be found an
engraving and full description of the Planetary Machine, from or

iginal calculations made in London, in 1842, by the present writer.

   Astronomical Lectures in the Midland Counties, and

" The Great Silk Mill" at Derby.---One of our notes informs

us that Ferguson, in the year 1762, made a tour through the

Midland Counties of England, and delivered in several towns

there, his usual Course of Lectures on Astronomy, Mechanics,

Hydraulics, &c. In his progress he visited Derby, and delivered

his course in that town ; during his sojourn, he frequently

visited the ingenious Mr. Whitehurst, Clockmaker, from whom

he received several curious papers and drawings of Escape

ments, Pendulum*, and Hydraulic Engines. He also visited
" The Great Silk Mill at Derby," (erected by Lombe, in 1719,)

and appears to have been much gratified with his inspection of

the far-famed mill. The following account ofis                                                        by Fergu
              is
son, was copied in 1831, from the original belonging to Deaue
                          a
Walker, Esq., Lecturer on Astronomy, &c., London.!

" Notes, and Verses, on the Great Silk Mill at Derby.it
                                               is

                                            J. is

                                                                                                   !

                                                                           it,
In this Silk Mill there are 26,586 wheels, and 97,746

movements, continually at work, except on Sundays. The

machinery  actuated by one great water-wheel, which goes
round three times in a minute. In each time of its going round,

73,728 yards of silk are twisted, so that, in 24 hours, 318,504,960

yards are twisted. The Water-wheel  kept constantly going,

except on Sundays, when  disengaged from all the rest of

the works. Any part of these movements may be stopt without

the least prejudice or interruption to the rest. This grand

machine disposed of in four stories of large rooms ahove one

another.                            Ferguson, 1762."

           Wondrous Machine! Thy curious Fabric shows
           How far the Ix>wer of human wisdom goes
           Where many thousand movements all attend

           Upon wheel, and on that cause depend.

           Sceptic, advance propose thy scheme of wit,
           That faith to reason always must submit.
                     JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                         269

Whence learn'd these movements to obey command ?

Who taught them how to roll, and when to stand 1
Was it by chance this curious fabric came f

Or did some thought precede, and rule the Frame ?
Worthy the Mortal, on whose soul, confest,
His Great Creator's Image stands imprest !
Now turn from Earth to Heaven thy doubting eyes,
And read th' amazing Glories of the Skies !
Worlds without number roll in different Spheres,

Keep to their Seasons, and complete their years.
Five thousand circuits, made with equal force,

The Earth has finish'd by its annual Course.
The Sun dispenses beams of genial Light,
And lends his
Stupendous            rays to  acnhdeeTrhtoheugghlotom! yEnnqiugihrte.  no  more                     :

                     Power
Own the First Mover; and, convine'd, adore.

    Ferguson subjoins these lines to his account of the mill,
copied probably from some manuscript or print shown to him
by his Derby friends. (See also, Ferguson's " Tables and Tracts,"

pp. 172, 173).
    We may here note that Hutton, the late learned Bookseller

of Birmingham, who served his apprenticeship in this mill, says
that there were only 13,384 wheels in it.

    The following article is taken from the original, in Ferguson's

autograph, in our possession :--

" On the Platonic Bodies. --The diameter of a sphere being

given, to find the side of any of the Platonic bodies that may

1

   is

            a
                 n

                                   is

                                                  is
                                                                           :

                                                                                            is

                                                                                      it,

                                                                                                                                     is
be either inscribed in the sphere or circumscribed about                                                                                 or

that which shall be equal to it.

As to the number given in the following Table, respect

ing the thing sought, so the diameter of the given sphere to

the side of the Platonic body sought

 The diameter of     Ttifit may be In-  That may be cir-                That i» to be fqunl
Sphere beiuK unity,   m'rihed'in the    ',mnsrrilx-d atiout              to the Sphere,
                          Sphere,
     the side of                           the Sphere,
                          0-816497
   Tetraedron,            0-707107      244948                                                     1-64417
   Octaedron,             0-577350      1-22474                                                    1-03576
   Hexaedron,             0-525731      1-00000                                                    0-80610
   leosaedron,
   Dodeeaedron,               856822       (S6158                                                     62153
                                           44903                                                   0-40883
                     0
                                                           00

                                                                                                  0
270 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

    The side of any of the five Platonic bodies being given, to

find the diameter of a sphere that may be inscribed in that body,
or circumscribed about or that equal to it. As the respec
tive number in the Table, under the title Inscribed, Circum
                      is
                                 1,

                                  it,
                                        is

                                                       is
scribed, Equal, to so the side of the given Platonic body
to the diameter of its inscribed, circumscribed, or equal sphere,is
in solidity.                                                         is

   The side of any of the five Platonic bodies being given, to
find the side of either of the Platonic bodies which are equal in

solidity to that of the given body. --As the number under the

title equal, against the given Platonic body, to the number
under the same title against the body whose side sought, so

   the side of the given Platonic body to the side of the Platonic
is

             1

              is
body sought.

To find the solid contents of any of the five Platonic bodies.
-- As
                  to the cube of the side of any of these bodies, so
                                                              7
                                                                               0
                                                                                                  is
01 17851 to the solid contents of the Tetraedron, 417404 to

that of the Octaedron, 100000 to that of the Hexaedron,

2181rJ95 to that of the Icosaedron, and 663199 to the solid

content of the Dodecaedron.                                   Jas. Ferguson.

                                                                  London, 16 December, 1762."
Vide also Ferguson's "Tables and Tracts," pp. 220, 221, 224.

Ferguson receives a Letter from Lady Isabella Finch. --

Our memoranda for 1762 concludes with a short note from the
Lady Isabella Finch to Ferguson, dated from " Berkeley Square

(London), Nov. 27th, 1762," from which                        seen, that Fer
                                                           is
                                                              a it

                                                                 of is

                                                                                       :
guson had sent her copy of one of his works to present to
                  is
                              a
the Princess Amelia. The following                            copy of the note,

(the original            in the "Birch Collection               Letters,"                 British
Museum, Vol.
                      viii., No. 58, and Museum No.           4,307) --

" Lady Isabella Finch returns Mr. Ferguson many thanks for his valuable

book. Which he may have an opportunity of presenting in forme to Hery*

R. Hss the Pss Amelia, she will give him timely notice of ye first Drawing

Room she has at Cavendish Square.232

   Berkeley Square,

Not*. 271*, 1762."

  232 Her Royal Highness the Princess Amelia, daughter of King George II.,a

born 30th May, 1711. She constantly resided in England. Died, unmarried,
on 31st October, 1786, aged 75. Lady Isabella Finch was one of the Princess's
ladies in waiting.
JAMES FERGUSON.                        271

   The note is thus addressed, " Mr. James Ferguson, at his

House in Russell Street, Bloomsbury," (London). Shortly

afterwards, Ferguson removed to Mortimer Street, Cavendish
Square.

                                                     1763.

   In glancing over our memoranda for 1763, we find it one of
the most remarkable years of Ferguson's life -- a year of great
success, and a year of great sorrow. Of success, as shown by
the pecuniary proceeds of his lectures at Bristol and Bath ; and
in being elected a Fellow of the Royal Society ;-- and of sorrow,

consequent on the sudden and mysterious disappearance of his

accomplished and only daughter, whom, after the middle of this
year, he never saw more ! This, and other interesting matters,
will be noticed, and satisfactorily cleared up, as we proceed
with our details.

   Ferguson applies for the vacant situation of Clerk to
the Royal Society, and is Rejected. --The first entry in our

memoranda informs us that, early in January, 1763, Ferguson
was one of the candidates for the then vacant situation of a
" Clerk to the Royal Society," -- Salary, £47 7s. per annum. At

a meeting of the Royal Society on February 3d, the members
proceeded to take into consideration their vacant " Clerkship "

situation. It was found that there were six candidates for the

situation, but only four went to ballot ; and as " the petition " of
Ferguson for said situation was the first on the roll, it was first
read before the members -- it began thus :--

   " 1st, The Petition of Mr. James Ferguson of Mortimer Street,

Cavendish Square, Lecturer on Geography, Astronomy, &c., and
author of several works in this latter Science, and of divers

communications to the Society, was read (84 members being

present), --

For Ferguson,  . . . Yea, 33.
                            Nay, 51."

Ferguson was consequently rejected, and the ballot went on

with the rest. It resulted in favour of Emanuel Mendes
Da Costa; his ballot being, Yea, 62 -- Fay, 18; Da Costa was

most likely elected because of his extensive knowledge of
272 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

languages. Ho, however, proved a bad bargain to the Society,
seeing that he embezzled their funds to the amount of more
than £1,000. He was dismissed in December, 1767.

   For these particulars, we are indebted to the kindness of Dr.
Sharpey and Professor Stokes, present Secretaries of the Royal

Society.

   Ferguson's paper on the Transit of Venus-- Read before
the Royal Society. --On referring to "the Philosophical

Transactions " of the Royal Society, we find that Ferguson, on
February 10th, 1763, sent a paper to be read before the mem
bers, entitled,

      " A Description and Delineation of the Transit of Venus Expected

       in 1769." Read before the Roval Society, on 10th Feb. 1783. (See
       Phil. Trans., Vol. 53, page 30).

    Ferguson, early in March, went to Bath and Bristol,
and remained in these cities until the beginning of May,
delivering several courses of Day and Evening Lectures
on Astronomy, Mechanics, Hydrostatics, Hydraulics, Pneu
matics, and Optics, which courses were illustrated by a very
efficient and extensive apparatus. His lecture-room in Bath

was the large room of the " Lamb Inn," Stall Street ; and
at Bristol, in the large room of the "Bell Inn," Broad Street.
He appears to have been at this period about six weeks

in Bath and Bristol, and the receipts from his lectures were,
"Total, £138 15s." From this may be deducted, say £38
15s. for travelling expenses, &c, leaving, as nett proceeds,

£100, -- on the whole a pretty successful lecturing tour.

   Ferguson applies to be admitted a Fellow of the Royal
Society. -- It has generally been supposed that Ferguson was

elected a Fellow of the Royal Society without solicitation, but
such was not the case. On 26th March, 1763, he, while in Bris
tol, wrote a letter to his friend the Rev. Dr. Birch (who had then
recently been elected Secretary of the Society), expressing to
him a desire to become a member, and offering to give " a bond"
to ensure payment of the usual entry fees, &c., and annual pay

ments, &c. The following is a copy of this letter: --
                                   JAMES FERGUSON.                                  273

                                                   '' Bristol, March 26th, 17G3.

  I" Reverend Sir, --As with the highest respect and gratitude remember

my friends of the Royal Society who voted for my succeeding the late Mr.

IHauksbee,233 so do assure you that my mind justly approves of the deter

mination made by a great majority for Mr. Da Costa, on account of his much

superior talents for that important office.

  I" Do you think might now presume to offer myself as a member of that
Irespected and illustrious Society f It is an honour very much desire to
Ihave ; and besides which, the Improvements should have by attending their

meetings, and by access to the great Library, could not fail to be very great

for me, in those Sciences wherein I find myself defective.

  I" beg you will communicate to the Right Honble. the Earl of Maccles

field, and to others whom you think proper, this my earnest desire of becom
ing a member of the Royal Society ; and if that learned and venerable Body
should think me any way deserving of that honour, and in consequence there

Iof will favour me with their election, I shall, on returning to London, give

my Bond for what is to be paid on that account. -- am, with the greatest

respect,                           Reverend Sir,

                                   Your much obliged,

                                                  and very humble servant,

                                                                  James Fkrouson."

The original letter is in " the Birch Collection of Letters,"
British Museum, Vol. viii., No. 227 and 228, Museum, No. 4307.

   We have never seen Dr. Birch's reply to this letter, but from
the following " Certificate," it would appear that the Rev. Doc

tor lost no time in the furtherance of Ferguson's wishes. It

would seem that he wrote out the Certificate to the Royal
Society, and got it signed by members to whom Ferguson was

personally known, as the rules of the Society required. The

following is a copy of Ferguson's Certificate for membership

entered in the books of the Royal Society, for which we have

again kindly to thank Dr. Sharpey and Professor Dr. Stokes,
present Secretaries of the Royal Society :--

            " Mr. James Ferguson,

               of Mortimer Street,

Well known to the Public by his writings and Lectures on the subject of

Astronomy, being desirious of Election into the Royal Society, is recommend

ed by us on our personal knowledge, as well as on account of his various
                                                      "17P0h9y;s"icjoo-Minetchaaunthicoarl ofE'x'pHearuimksebnetse
   233 Mr.  Francis Hauksbee was the author of
on Light,   Electricity, &.c. , with plates, Lond. ,
                                    Mechanical,
and Winston's  "Cionuvresnetoor f  and maker of  Optical,   Hydrostatical, and   Pneumatical
Experiments;                                     a curious  orrery; and, in the  latter end of

his life, was much celebrated for his Chemical Experiments. He was long Clerk
and Librarian to the Koyal Society. He died on January 11th, 1763, aged 75.
274 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

communications to the Society, as highly deserving the honour.                         London,

14th April, 1763.                 D. Wray.
                                  Gowin Knight.
                   (Signed)       P. Newrome.
                                  Ja. Short.
                                  Cha. Morton.
                                  John Belchier.

                                  Nic». Munckley."

   The foregoing Certificate having been laid before the mem
bers of the Society at the close of their Session 1762-1763, it
could not be entertained until the re-opening of the Session at
the end of the year. Accordingly, at one of their earliest meet
ings at the end of the year 1763, the Certificate was again
read, and before a full meeting of members, when on

   " Nov. 24, 1763, It was resolved by ballot unanimously, that

Mr. James Ferguson of Mortimer Street is this day elected a
Fellow of the Society on account of his singular merit, and of
his circumstances, be excused the usual admission fee, and also

the annual contributions."
    The next and only other note on this election is from an entry

in the Iwoks of the Royal Society, notifying that, on

         " December 8th, 1763, Mr. James Ferguson admitted a member."

That this was the date of bis first admission in person before
the members, on which occasion, some one or other of his
friends would, agreeably to form, present him to the President

 and Fellows.
a
    is,

                                                                              is
   Ferguson versus Kennedy's " Astronomical Chronology."
-- Early in May, 1763, Ferguson finished his Courses of Lectures
at Bath and Bristol, and returned to London after an absence of

about two months. Shortly after his return, he appears to have

had his attention called to that very absurd production, Ken

nedy's "Complete System of Astronomical Chronology,
Unfolding the Scriptures," then recently published.235 The

m Five out of the above seven names appended to the certificate arc unknown
to us; but "Ja. Siitrrt" was the  w"eCll-hkan.owMnortOonpti"cian,unadnedrstmooadketro  of  "Short's
                                                                                       be  Dr. Mor
Reflecting Telescopes," London.
ton, Fellow of the Royal Society, and of the British Museum.
235 The Reverend John Kennedy was Rector of Bradley, in Derbyshire. Shortly
after Ferguson published his Astronomy, in 1756, he was introduced to Mr. Ken
nedy. Ferguson, in one of his printed letters to Kennedy, says that Kennedy,
                                         JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                 275

Solar and Lunar periods on which, for a great part, the calcu
lations of this work rests, are assumed, if not manufactured

periods, and the axioms which guide its logic are absurd and
ludicrous. For instance, Kennedy boldly asserts the following

as axioms :-- That no Astronomer but himself could tell the true

length of 24 hours as measured either by the revolution of the

Sun or of a Star, -- That Dr. Keill has given sophistical directions
concerning -- That the precise mathematical difference be
           !

                  it,
                                                            is
                                                               5 of

                                                                                                                                                 1
tween the sidereal and solar day four minutesTM --That all
solar days of 24 hours each are precisely                                                            equal lengthTM --

That all equations of time are unoMromrinical, and ought to be
rejected --23s That all solar tropical years have been of the same

precise mathematical length of 365 days hours 49 minutes,
ever since the Creation, and will continue to be to the end of

time,239 -- That the synodical revolution of the Moon round the

Earth consisted precisely of 29 days 12 hours 44 minutes
second 45 thirds,240-- That the first meridian should cut 156

before he published his "Astronomical Chronology," " was many times at my
house, and sometimes disputed, or rather cavilled with me for Iwurs togetlter for
                                                                                                                         (

                                                                                                                          I
you never would be quiet), and often thought you had conquered me when you only
confounded my head with flashes of noisy words, awl would never hear wluit
hadl;xto   say." (See Ferguson's 2d letter          to Kennedy, page
          The true length of sidereal day,                       which                               29).
                                  h.                                            is           always  precisely  of  the  same
                                      h
measure, consists of 23 56 m. s. thirds 27 fourths, or decimally, 23 56 m.                                          h.
                                         4
                                                 5

4-0908 s.

    2»7 The mean length of solar day (that is, taking the mean for all the yeara
round), will be found 24 hours. Mr. Kennedy appears to have been ignorant of
the astronomical fact that the Sun, at particular seasons of the year, passes twiceit
over the meridian in the 24 mean hours at other times does not pass over the
meridian within the 24 hours at all. Sometimes the day exceeds 24 hours in                   it
length, sometimes falls short of it.
                       it                                                                            is
                                                              ;

28s When we find that the Earth's motion in its orbit                                                    unequal, and the

obliquity of the ecliptic so considerable, equations become absolutely essential to
add to, or subtract from, the time shown by well-regulated clock and Sun-dial.
                                it                                                                              a
                                                                             a
We feel   assusreprrtisioend--at  Mr. Kennedy having dogmatically made such an unastro-
uomical                           shows how little he knew of Physical and Practical Astro

nomy.
   23V Mr. Kennedy here adopts as a truth, that the precise mathemati

cal length of solar or tropical year, from the Creation to the end of time, has
                     a
                                                     5
                                                                                          a
been, and must be, 365 days hours 49 minutes. Here again we have to refer
to the unequal motion of the Earth in its orbit, as also to the Earth being acted
                        of the   planets when they approach conjunctive
oanndbyEsaervthera--l  these    cause perturlmtions, and consequently,                                line with the Sun
                                                                                                     prevent the Earth
from moving round the Sun so as to accomplish its circuit in any exact period of
time. But taking the mean average of 250 revolutions of the Earth round the
Sun, the mean length of one of these revolutions 365 h. 48 m. 51 s.
                                                    d.                                                                   6
                                                        5
Mr. Kennedy's assumed period of 365                         h.
                                                                          is is

                                                                                              d.
                                                                                                   5
                                                                                49 m. therefore very absurd, and
used in calculation for even limited epochs, would lead to serious errors.
d.
        a

           h.
                            1
MO Mr. Kennedy assumes the synodical revolution of the Moon to consist of

29 12 44 m. s. 45 thds., but he does not inform us from whence he found

this measure. There can be no doubt that                                        it           some mean revolution he had
                                                                                     is
276 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

degrees west of Greenwich, in the Great South Sea ; and that
the Moon was created on the third day of the Creation week at

farthest, &c.

On these, or several of these points, Ferguson resolved to

address Kennedy through the medium of the Critical Review.

Accordingly, in May and June, 1763, Ferguson's letter of re
marks on Kennedy's " Astronomical Chronology," appeared in
       " Critical               "
the                    Review      being  a long letter,        part of it was
                               ;

inserted in May, the concluding portion of it in June. Instead

of waiting until the concluding portion of Ferguson's letter was

published (which the editor assured his readers would be done
in next Review for June), Kennedy rushed into print (regard

less of what the concluding part of Ferguson's letter would

touch on), and published a quarto pamphlet of 20 pp., entitled,

"An Examination' of Mr Ferguson's Remarks (inserted
in the Critical Revieiu for May, 1763) upon Mr. Kennedy's

System of Astronomical Chronology. By John Kennedy."
This work of Kennedy's is no " Examination " at all ; after a few

introductory remarks, he asks Ferguson not simply one, two, or
three queries, but puts no less than " XX11I Queries " to Fergu
son, waiting an answer to them ; and concludes with a few arith

metical questions which he proposes and answers as favourable
to his assumed or manufactured j>eriods and their results.

We may here notice that Ferguson, in his second letter to

Kennedy (pp. 6, 7), says to Kennedy, in reference to the letter
he had sent to the Critical Review,

  I" You know that laid the whole of my remarks before you
Iiu manuscript before gave them to be printed, and submitted

them to your perusal, promising at same time to alter any part
thereof in which you might think yourself misrepresented ; so
that you might think me at least a fair opponent. But you

returned them immediately, telling me that you would not read
them till they were in print. To show still as great a degree of

adopted, or a manufactured peiiod, to answer some result. The true mean
synodical revolution of the Moon, by Meyer's Lunar Tables, consists of '>t*d.
                       thds. ->fi fourths 23 fifths 25 sixths.
12 h.  44 m. 2 s. 53     adopted the period given by Dr.        PouFnedr,g--usvoinz,.  in all his
lunar   calculations,                                                                  29 d. 12 h.

44 m. 3 s. 2 thds. 58 fourths, which is a period about 10 thirds of time too slcm;
while that by Kennedy is about 1J s. too fast. The period, as given by Meyer,
is still recognised as the correct period of a lunation, excepting in a small correc
tion recently made, and the mean synodic revolution of the Moon is now acknow
ledged as consisting of 29 d. 12 h. 44 m. 2 s. 52 thds.
JAMES FERGUSON.  277

Ifairness as possible, ordered my name to be put to those remarks

in the Critical Review, a thing seldom, if ever, done by those

who send a paper to be printed in these monthly productions.
   " Had you not," continues Ferguson, " even without the least

degree of modesty in your voluminous system, fallen so unmer

cifully upon all those who have written on Astronomy before

you, -- Had you not (to use your own words, for I cannot find

better) ' rashly impeached the veracity of all our solar and lunar
tables,' and imposed your own calculations upon the world with

such a high degree of assurance and magisterial sufficiency, --
And had you not, with the greatest degree of boldness, asserted

things to be true, which the merest novice in Astronomy knows

to be false, your system might have slept in silence and oblivion

without any disturbance from me."

    Thus, we see from the above that Ferguson sent his manu
script remarks to Kennedy before they went to the Critical
Review, and promised to alter anything in which Kennedy
might fancy himself misrepresented. But instead of receiving

 them in a generous spirit, Kennedy indignantly returns the
manuscript to Fergusou, refusing to read them until they were
 in print. We also see what caused Ferguson to send his " Re
marks" on Kennedy's "Astronomical Chronology" to the

Critical Review -- a very proper motive and excuse.
    As a matter of course, Ferguson declined Kennedy's very

modest request, -- viz. to answer all the 23 queries he had put
to him. But in November of the same year (1763), Ferguson
sent another letter to the Critical Review, " in order," he
tells us, "to avoid all further disputes between us about
Astronomical matters." Kennedy took no notice of this ; and
nothing more of this dispute, or of Kennedy, is heard of until

 the end of year 1775, when he rc-appears as the opponent of
 Fcnmson, to which date the reader is referred.

   " Astronomical Tables and Precepts. -- About mid-summer
of 1763, Ferguson published his " Astronomical Tables and
Precepts," an octavo pamphlet of 64 pages, embellished with an

illustrative frontispiece folding-plate, On the Geometrical
Construction of Solar and Lunar Eclipses. Like many
of Ferguson's pamphlets, this one is now rarely met with.

We kept inquiring for it in many of the old book shops in Lon
27S EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

don for several years before we succeeded in getting a copy.

The annexed is a copy of Title-page :--

" Astronomical Tables and Precepts for Calculating the true
Times of New and Full Moons, and showing the method of project
ing Eclipses, from the Creation of the World to a.d. 7800, to which
is prefixed a Short Theory of the Solar and Lunar Motions. By
.Iames Ferguson. London : Printed for the author, mdcclxiii."

Remarkable Fish caught near Bristol -- Ferguson inspects
it. -- During Ferguson's sojourn in Bristol, a very singular fish
Swoaps hicuasugChot niunbiKcuinsg-oRfoaSdh--aw()th--e
                                                         Long Angler of Pennant, or
                                                       the fish was brought to Hot-

Wclls, near Bristol, and exhibited. Ferguson went to see the
fish, --when he made a drawing of which, along with a short
                                                       it,

                                                                                                                  ;
description, he sent to his friend, the Rev. Dr. Birch, Secretary

of the Royal Society, who read the paper to the members on

June 2d. On referring to the Philosophical Transactions for
May, 1763, we find an engraving and description of this fish --

the paper entitled,
        is

                        a
" An account of Remarkable Fish taken in the King's Road near
Bristol." Read before the Roval Society, 2d June, 17U3. (See
Phil. Trans. Vol. 53, page 170);

Ferguson's letter to Dr. Birch                         dated " Bristol, May 5th,
                                                       is
1763."                                                                     a

   Ferguson apprentices his eldest Son to London Opti
CIan. -- In the month of June, 1763, Ferguson apprenticed his

eldest son, James (now in his 15th }"ear), to Mr. Edward Nairne,
Optician and Philosophical and Mathematical Instrument
Maker, Cornhill, London, "to learn the practical departments

   said business in its different branches."

   "Analysis of a Course of Lectures." --During his tem

porary lecturing sojourn at Bristol, Ferguson found time
to write out and publish, at Bristol Press, an Analysis of the
Course of Lectures he was then engaged upon, under the fol

lowing title --

       " Analysis of Course of Lectures on Mechanics, Pneumatics,
       Hydrostatics, Spherics, and Astronomy, read by James Ferguson.
       Bristol: Printed by S.Farley, in the Castle Green, 1763. Price
        Sixpence."
of

                          :
                                       a

                                                  a
           JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                279

It is now an exceedingly rare tract, a copy of which we had much
difficulty in procuring. It is an octavo of 44 pages, containing

full notes of his Lectures on Mechanics, Pneumatics, Hydro
statics, Spherics, and Astronomy. Like his other works, it is
written in plain language, and is very full in all its details.

  Domestic Calamity --Mysterious Disappearance of Fer
guson's Daughter -- In the midst of these his multifarious

pursuits, in the height of his prosperity and renown, the hand

of adversity fell heavily and suddenly upon Ferguson. Unlike
those afflictions which time smooths or eradicates--his was des
tined to be life-enduring -- a never-ending grief to himself, his

wife, and family, by the sudden and mysterious disappearance
of his only daughter, Agnes Ferguson, an elegant and accom

plished lady, in her eighteenth year.

   It is now upwards of forty years since we first read in

" Nichols life of Bowyer," that Ferguson's " only daughter was

lost in a very mysterious and singular manner" but without

saying how lost, when, or where. Shortly afterwards, we

saw Partington's Ferguson's Mechanics (Lond. 1K25), and read
his short addenda to Ferguson's Life, but it threw no new light

on the matter, being simply a condensed extract from Bowyer.

Partington merely says, " His daughter, an elegant and accom

plished young lady, suddenly disappeared." Bowyer was one

of Ferguson's most intimate friends ; a frequent visitor at his

house, and often formed part of the family circle : he would thus

often see his daughter, converse with her on philosophical sub

jects ; and therefore, from personal observation, be enabled to

give a true sketch, and to say that "she was remarkable for the
elegance of her person, the agreeableness and  vivacity of her
conversation, and in philosophical knowledge   worthy of such

a father"
Being on intimate terms of friendship with the family,

Bowyer would learn from Ferguson himself all that he

knew of the disappearance of his daughter; -- all that Fer

guson and his family knew of the sad calamity would be by

them told to Bowyer ; and all that Bowyer in his turn can tell
that " she was lost in a very mysterious and singular
is,
                                                                                       ;

                                                                                     is
manner!' It must be observed that this notice                                             obscure.
Bowyer says, " si1e teas lost," &c. from this, many have
280 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

been led to conjecture that " sfie was lost somewhere abroad ; "
while others again had heard that " die had been lost on the
streets of London." Surely Bowyer must have known when
and where and under what circumstances she was last seen.
Had Bowyer communicated these particulars, which he easily
could have done, it would have prevented the sad calamity from
being afterwards covered with so much mystery, conjecture,
and surmise.

   In order, if possible, to clear up this mysterious affair, we
lately resolved on a thorough investigation of the matter. In

commencing with researches we found our way obstructed
with many difficulties; for instance, to narrow our period of
search, it was necessary to ascertain the year, or as near to the
year of the disappearance as was possible; or what would

have answered the same purpose, to obtain a copy of date of
the daughter's birth. After correspondence on the subject,

and also much tedious research, we found that neither the

year of tlie disappearance, nor the year of her birth, could be

then ascertained.

    We had in consequence to fall back on what was known, and
therefrom deduce the limits of our period of search, -- viz. Fer
guson, in his Memoir, mentions that he was married in May,
 1739 ; therefore, by adding 19 years to this date, we get at 175S
for the earliest probable date of the dimppearance ; and as
the occurrence took place in Ferguson's lifetime, we can readily
ascertain the limit for our research. Ferguson died in Novem
ber, 1776 ; consequently, between 1758 and 1776, the disap
pearance occurred, and between these years we directed our
 search. Shortly afterwards it occurred to us that even these
 limits might be much narrowed. We recollected that Fer
 guson, in one of his interviews with Mr. Poyntz regarding a
 mathematical school appointment, mentioned to him that
 he did not know "how to maintain his wife during the time he
 must be under the master's tuition." This was in the summer
 of 1743, and if Ferguson had then any family he would have
 mentioned the circumstance to Mr. Poyntz ; as he did not, the

 reasonable inference appeared to be that Ferguson then,
 viz. in 1743, had no children ; and as all accounts of the dis

 appearance of the daughter concurred in placing it "some
 years before Ferguson's death," in 1776, we deducted six
JAMES FERGUSON.                                         281

years from 1776, which gave 1770 for the new limit of
search; and by adding the daughter's age, 18, to 1743, wo
obtained 176 1 as the proper date to commence with ;
we had therefore to direct our attention to a thorough search
between the years 1761 and 1770, a period of ten years; and
subsequent discovery showed the correctness of our views of

these limits.

    We had but got on a short way in our inquiries when we
received from our indefatigable friend, Mr. Robert Sim of
Keith, a letter and extract of a remarkable occurrence which
seemed to solve tfie mystery, and as it was within the limits

of 1761-1770, confirmed us in this opinion. It had some

times been said, traditionally, that Ferguson's daughter had
been kidnapped and taken to some foreign country ; and
this theory was somewhat strengthened by the outrageous

abduction-case extract sent us by Mr. Sim, as follows :--

                                          " Adduction.

   This offence was by no means uncommon in England some years ago. In
the London Chronicle for 1762 there is an extract from a letter dated Sun
day, Highgate, June fith, from which it appears that on that morning, between
twelve and one, a post-chaise, in which was a lady, was driven through that
place very furiously by two postilions, and attended by three persons who
had the appearance of gentlemen, from which she cried, out, Murder! Save
me! Oh save me! Her voice subsided from weakness into faint efforts of the
same cries of distress ; but as there was at that time no possibility of relief,
they hastily drove towards Finchley Common. From another quarter, says
the London Chronicle, ' we have undoubted intelligence of the same carriage

being seen, and the same outcries heard as it passed through Islington, with
the additional circumstance of the two postilions being in their shirts. Is
this outrage to be suffered in England?"'

Extracted from " Hone's Every- Day Book, &e." Vol.      pp. 767, 768.
                                         London, 1762.
2
                                     i.,

                                             a
   We had now no doubt that Ferguson's daughter had been
subjected to an atrociously forcible abduction, and that " the
mysterioiis disappearance" was now solved, and had there
fore written down the date of the event as having occur
red on June 6th or 7th, 1762; and consequently suspended

farther inquiry.
    Some short time afterwards, however, we received another

letter from our friend, Mr. Sim, mentioning, that in pocket
                                                           N
282 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Bible, which had formerly belonged to Ferguson,241 he had
found, in Ferguson's own handwriting, on one of the fly-leaves,
an entry of all the births of his children, and there it is re
corded that Agnes, the lost daughter, was 60/71 on Thursday,

29th August, 1745. By adding 18 years to which date, we
get 1763 as the year of her disappearance ; and therefore,

the abduction case just quoted had no reference to Fergu
son's lost daughter. Bowyer mentions that she was in her

18th year when lost, and we have the testimony of the
lost one herself that she was not quite eighteen years of age

when she disappeared. See the following account of her by

Dr. Blake.

  Ferguson's Daughter's Life, after Her Disappear
ance; and Her Miserarle Death. -- Having discovered that

1763 was the date of Agnes Ferguson's disappearance, we wrote

to Mr. Augustus Burt, London, requesting that a search

be made in the Loudon newspapers and magazines for 1763,
in the British Museum, regarding the occurrence. After a

very tedious examination, he could find nothing relating to
the event. Some considerable length of time after this, Mr.

Burt discovered in the British Museum, No. 978-jij a volume of
tracts of the " London Corresponding Society," in which is in

cluded "The Female Jockey Club," which belonged to Dr.
Blake, a Surgeon in St. Martin's Lane, London, --towards

the end of last century. Dr. Blake, who attended Miss Fergu

son in her last illness, has written on a blank leaf at the end

of "The Female Jockey Club" tract, a short account of the

fate and sad end of this unfortunate lady.               From which,
it will be seen that she had been forcibly
                                                       abducted --was
afterwards taken to the continent --subsequently returned
to England -- was sometime in the Fleet Prison for debt, and

at last, on January 27th, 175)2, she                   ended her sad career

in a garret, amid squalid poverty, in                  Old Round Court, --a
Court off the Strand, near Charing                     Cross -- (destroyed in

1823-1826 to make way for new improvements then in

    241  By the discovery  of thin Bible we have been  enabled to record the  dates of
birth    of the whole of   Ferguson's children, which                         in their
                                                        the reader will find

proper places.
JAMKS FERGUSON.  283

progress). The following is a copy of Dr. Blake's memoran
dum entry :--

  I" Some time since was call<l to attend a dying female in Old
Round Court, whom I found in the last stage of consumption ;

prior some days to her dissolution, she told me her sad tale.
Her name was Ferguson ; years before, she had been inveigled
from her father's house by gentlemen whom she had often seen
at the Lectures of her father, who proved to be none other than
James Ferguson the eminent astronomer and mathematician.
She thus was launched out into this vast world before she attain

ed the age of eighteen, -- leaving home, relations and every tie,

for this nobleman, who at first, devoted all his attention to her,

and took her to Italy, where she became a star of attraction,
but her lover being prone to pleasure himself, -- pecuniary diffi
culties cast a gloom over her apparent prosperity, until the
resources were completely stopped, -- they returned to England,
and she to maintain her pretensions wrote sonnets, odes, elegies,
and other small works indiscriminately.

   " The noble Lord left her, then came her time of toil, -- she

was too proud to return to those she had disgraced, she could
not appear to retain the least remembrance of her earlier days,

-- though not totally debauched by the flatteries and vanities

of a deceitful world, yet disabled and no longer qualified to
appear in her former sphere, the spectacles of London were
frequented by her. Nature had been liberal towards her, and

she was conscious of her attractions, -- there she gave full sway
to her powers, till the cruel unrelenting arm of the law stopt
her career and drove her to the Fleet Prison ;---Here she con

tinued in an abject state of poverty until one who finds the
wretched out liberated her from her confinement, -- she then

forgot the dreadful scenes she had passed, and again ventured
on the theatre of boundless dissipation, and thus again became
involved in debt ; yet her personal claims were indisputable,
and conscious of which she applied and obtained permission of

Mr. Garrick to appear at the Theatre. -- Various characters were
attempted, but all her efforts were faint and languid, -- but if

she failed to please, she never disgusted ; the attendance and

fatigue inseparable from a theatrical profession were ill suited

to a system of the wildest dissipation, and so was dissolved her

engagement,--from thence she declined, one step below the
2S-1  EXTENDED MEMOIK OF

Iother, until when was called in to the miserable room in

Round Court, and found the deplorable remains or ruins of that

beauteous symmetry which must have charmed all beholders, --

to serve only as a sad memorial of the fatal effects of inordinate

excesses ;-- let us hope, one salutary caution to her sex.
   " This poor creature, after months of agony, died 27th of

Jany. 1792." (See vol. Tracts, British Museum, No. 978-,lT).

    Thus, the mysterious disappearance of Ferguson's accom

plished and only daughter, is now, after a lapse of nearly
a hundred years, satisfactorily cleared up. Although a most
sad and melancholy tale, it is yet satisfactory to know the
whole history and mystery of the affair.

   Dr. Blake shows that Ferguson's daughter had led a dis
reputable life in London, &c., from the close of the year
1763 till near the end of the year 1791, a period of nearly 28
years. As far as is now known, she lived almost the whole of
this long period in London, and would probably now and then
see her father, her mother, and brothers on the crowded streets,

when following out her sad career, and known by another
name. During this long period of 28 years, her father and
mother and her eldest brother had died. An esteemed cor

respondent writes -- " This may suggest the following but now
unanswerable questions, -- viz. Did she ever, or did she often

see, at a distance, her parents or her brothers, whilst walking
through the streets of Lmdon? did she, when her parents and
brother died, at the time hear of their deaths ? did she, afar off,

follow their remains to the tomb? did she ever, in after days,

enter the churchyard of St. Marybone where they lay, and drop
 the tears of repentant sorrow over their graves?"

     We shall conclude our notice of Agnes Ferguson with a few
 additional notes sent to us by Mrs. Casborne, to whom we
 are much indebted for several memorabilia which she

 has from time to time: sent us. We may here mention that
 Mrs. Casborne is the daughter of Ferguson's " Eudosia" Fer
 guson taught Mrs. Casborne's mother, when Miss Emblin, and
 early in her teens, the science of Astronomy ; her lessons in that
 science were afterwards in a volume, entitled, The Young
 Gentlemen and Ladies Astronomy, wherein the elements of

 Astronomy are discussed by dialogues --Ferguson taking the cog
                      JAMES FERGUSON.                                    283

nomen " Neamler," and giving Miss Emblin that of " Eudoaia."
Mrs. Casborne, the daughter of " Eudosia," informs us that her

mother often spoke of Ferguson, but was too young, when her

mother died, to remember particulars. Mrs. C'asborne's aunt, the

sister of Eudosia, who died at an advanced age in 1839, used

frequently to allude to the disappearance of Ferguson's

daughter. Mrs. Casborne's letter, of date July, 18C1, in refer
ence to Ferguson's daughter, says, -- " My mother's sister, who

has been only dead 22 years, has often mentioned to me
                       ofinFertghuesoSnt'rsandda,u--ghFteerrg, uwsiotnh
sudden disappearance                                                     whom
was walking, believe,                                                    being
Ithe

he
occupied in some calculations did not perceive when his

daughter withdrew her arm ; and when he did, he thought she

had gone home to arrange some household affairs, and re
turned home in that idea, and expected her for days and
Iweeks, but she never returned-- he never saw her mure.
" The date of this occurrence  do not know, --some cir

fcumstances attending the death of a young lady, a few years

afterwards, and dying in London upon her arrival rom the
West Indies, led Ferguson to believe that she might be his

daughter ; but nothing definite was ever known."

   It appears that Ferguson, somewhere about 1770, had

heard some tidings of his lost daughter being in London. He,

and his two sons, James and Murdoch, made some search or

inquiries after her about that period, but without success. We

find that Mrs. Casborne makes mention of this search in one

of her letters to us, and think it too probable that the daugh

ter lived under an assumed name.

   It is a remarkable circumstance, that the daughter parted

from her father for the last time while in the Strand, and that in

about 28 years thereafter she died in an obscure garret leading

off the same street.

At the time when the daughter disappeared, Ferguson and

family had their residence in Mortimer Street, Cavendish

Square, London.

  Paper on the Great Solar Eclipse of April 1st, 1764.

-- The only other note which we have for 1763 refers to

a paper he drew up regarding a great Solar Eclipse which was
to take place on 1st April, 1764. This paper, with a delinea
286 EXTENDED MEMOfR OF

                                                       dated " Mortimer
                            :

                                                                    it,
                                                                               is
                                                                                                            is
tion of the Eclipse accompanying

Street, Nov. 16th, 1763," and was read before the members of

the Royal Society on November 17th. The following                                                               the

title of this paper and projection, taken from the Books of the

Royal Society --

" Accouut of an Eclipse uf the Sun,             1st April, 17fi4." Read before
the Royal Society, 17th November,                1763. (Phil. Trans., Vol. 53,

page 240).

                                         1764.

A      New Crane invented                by     Ferguson. -- Our first note
                                            is
     isfor 1764 refers to a "New and Safe Crane" having "Four

different Powers," description of which, accompanied by a
                            it, a
large drawing of                      was sent to the Royal Society early in

January, 1764. The following                           the title of the paper in
Philosophical Transactions: --

       " Description of New and Safe Crane, which has Four Different
                            a

       Powers." Read before the Royal Society, 19th January, 1764.
                                      Vol. 54, page 24; also, see "The     Lniversal
       M(Saege aziPnheil."  Trans.,   1766, which has full description of      and an
                            for Feb.            a                          it,

engraving).                                                                                is

The following description of the New and Safe Crane

taken from Supplement to his Lectures on Select Subjects,:
and the annexed cut reduced from the drawing that accom
                                     is
panied the paper --
   " The Description of a New and Safe Crane, which has four

different Powers, adapted to different Weights.

" The common Crane consists only of large wheel and axle
                                                       a                   by
                                                                   by
and the rope, by which goods are drawn from ships, or let down                 if ;

from the quay to them, winds or coils round                            the axle, as the

axle turned by men walking in the wheel. But, as these

engines have nothing to stop the weight from running down,

any of the men happen Lo trip or fall into the wheel, the weight
descends, and turns the wheel rapidly backward, and tosses the

men violently about within               it,which has produced melancholy

instances, not only of limbs broke, but even of lives lost,;                                                    this

ill-judged construction of cranes. And besides, they have but

one power for all sorts of weights so that they generally spend
as much time in raising a small weight as in raising a great

one.
JAMES FERGUSON.  287

   " These imperfections and dangers induced me to think of a

Imethod of remedying them. And for thai purpose, contrived

a Crane with a proper stop to prevent the danger, and with
different powers suited to different weights ; so that there might

                                                               Ferguson's Cranc.

he as little loss of time as possible ; and also, that when heavy
goods are let down into ships, the descent may be regular and
deliberate.

   " This Crane has four different powers : and, I believe, it

might be built in a room eight feet in width : the gib being on
the outside of the room.

    " Three trundles, with different numbers of staves, are ap
plied to the cogs of a horizontal wheel with an upright axle,
and the rope, that draws up the weight, coils round the axle.
The wheel has 96 cogs, the largest trundle 24 staves, the next
largest 12, and the smallest has 6. So that the largest trundle
makes 4 revolutions for one revolution of the wheel ; the next

8, and the smallest 16. A winch is occasionally put upon the
axis of either of these trundles for turning it ; the trundle being-

then used that gives a power best suited to the weight ; and
the handle of the winch describes a circle in every revolution
equal to twice the circumference of the axle of the wheel. So
that the length of the winch doubles the power gained by each
trundle.

   As the power gained by any machine, or engine whatever,
is in direct proportion as the velocity of the power is to the
288 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

velocity of the weight; the powers of this Crane are easily

estimated, and they are as follows :

  If the winch be put upon the axle of the largest trundle,

and turned four times round, the wheel and axle will be turned

once round ; and the circle described by the power that turns

the winch, being in each revolution double the circumference

of the axle, when the thickness of the rope is added thereto, the

power goes through eight times as much space as the weight

rises through; and therefore, (making allowance for friction) a
man will raise eight times as much weight by the crane as

he would by his natural strength without it; the power, in this

case, being as eight to one.

  If the winch be put upon the axis of the next trundle, the

power will be as sixteen to one, because it moves 16 times as

fast as the weight moves.

  If the winch be put upon the axis of the smallest trundle,

and turned round, the power will be as 32 to one.
   But, if the weight should be too great, even for this power

to raise, the power may be doubled by drawing up the weight

by one of the parts of a double rope, going under a pulley in

the moveable block which is hooked to the weight below the

arm of the gib ; and then the power will be as li4 to one. That

is,  a man could then raise 64 times as much weight    bythe
                                          is is :          it
crane as he could raise by his natural strength without
                                                                 ;

because, for every inch that the weight rises, the working power

will move through 64 inches.

By banging a block with two pulleys to the arm of the gib,

and having two pulleys in the moveable block that rises with

the weight, the rope being doubled over and under these pul

leys, the power of the crane will be as 128 to one. And so, by

increasing the number of pulleys, the power may be increased

as much as you please always remembering, that the larger

the pulleys are, the less their friction.

Whilst the weight                                  drawing up, the ratchet teeth of
                                                   if

                                                                     a
wheel slip round below a catch or click that falls successively

into them, and so hinders the crane from turning backward,

and detains the weight in any part of its ascent,  the man

who works at the winch should accidentally happen to quit his

hold, or choose to rest himself before the weight be quite drawn

up.
JAMES FERGUSON.  281)

   In order to let down a weight, a man pulls down one end

of a lever of the second kind, which lifts the catch out of the

ratchet-wheel, and gives the weight liberty to descend. But, if
the descent be too quick, he pulls the lever a little farther down,
so as to make it rub against the outer edge of a round wheel ;

by which means, he lets down the weight as slowly as he
pleases : and, by pulling a little harder, he may stop the weight

if needful, in any part of its descent. If he accidentally quits

hold of the lever, the catch immediately falls, and stops both

the weight and the whole machine.

   This Crane is represented in the annexed cut, where A is

the great wheel, and B its axle on which the rope C winds.
This rope goes over a pulley D in the end of the arm of the

Igib E, and draws up the weight F, as the winch G is turned
round. H is the largest trundle, the next, and K is the axis

of the smallest trundle, which is supposed to be hid from view

by the upright supporter L. A trundle M is turned by the

great wheel, and on the axis of this trundle is fixed the ratchet-
wheel N, into the teeth of which the catch O falls. P is the

lever, from which goes a rope Q Q, over a pulley R to the catch,

one end of the rope being fixed to the lever, and the other end

to the catch. S is an elastic bar of wood, one end of which is

screwed to the floor, and, from the other end goes a rope (out
of sight in the figure) to the further end of the lever, beyond
the pin or axis on which it turns in the upright supporter T.
The use of this bar is to keep up the lever from rubbing against
the edge of the wheel U, and to let the catch keep in the teeth
of the ratchet-wheel. But, a weight hung on the farther end
of the lever would do full as well as the elastic bar and rope.

    When the lever is pulled down, it lifts the catch out of the

ratchet-wheel, by means of the rope Q Q, and gives the weight

F liberty to descend. But if the lever P be pulled a little

farther down than what is sufficient to lift the catch O out of
the ratchet-wheel N, it will rub against the edge of the wheel
U, and thereby hinder the too quick descent of the weight; and
will quite stop the weight if pulled hard. And if the man, who

pulls the lever, should happen inadvertently to let it go, the
elastic bar will suddenly pull it up, and the catch will fall down

and stop the machine.

   W W are two upright rollers, above the axis or upper gud

                                                 2o
290 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

geon of the gib E : their use is to let the rope C bend upon

them, as the gib is turned to either side, in order to bring the

weight over the place where it is intended to be let down.
   N.B. -- The rollers ought to be so placed, that if the rope C

be stretched close by their outmost sides, the half thickness of

the rope may be perpendicularly over the centre of the upper
gudgeon of the gib. For then, and in no other position of the

rollers, the length of the rope between the pulley in the gib
and the axle of the great wheel will be always the same in all
positions of the gib; and the gib will remain in any position to
which it is turned.

When either of the trundles is not turned by the winch in

working the crane, it may be drawn oft' from the wheel, after

the pin near the axis of the trundle is drawn out, and the thick
piece of wood is raised a little behind the outward supporter of

the axis of the trundle. But this is not material: for, as the

trundle has no friction on its axis but what is occasioned by its

weight, it will be turned by the wheel without any sensible

resistance in working the crane." ("A Supplement to Mr.
                                     Meciianics, Hydrostatics,
Ferguson's   Book  of Lectures on
Pneumatics,   and  Optics." London,  1767, pp. 3-- 11).

   Paper on the Great Solar Eclipse of 1764. --At one of

their meetings, early in 1764, the Royal Society agreed to print
Ferguson's paper on the Great Solar Eclipse (read on 17th
November of the preceding year), for which purpose, it was
remitted to Mr. Bowyer, printer to the Society. Dr. Birch,
the Society's Secretary, and friend of Ferguson, appears to
have either seen or written to Ferguson regarding the matter,
which brings from him the following letter to Dr. Birch :--

   " Reverend Sir, -- I called at Mr. Bowyer's, according to

your directions, last Tuesday morning, but he was not at home ;

Ihowever, saw his Compositor, who told me that he had only

received the enclosed paper, which gives a general account of
the periodical returns of the Sun's Eclipse, April 1st, 1764; but

had not got the Table therewith which I gave in to the Royal

Society.
    " On looking over the paper again, 1 think the general account

given therein might do without the Table. But if the Royal
                JAMES FERGUSON.                     291

ISociety has thought that the Table should likewise be printed,

  imagined it might be proper to divide the Table into four

quarto pages, which perhaps the printer might be at some loss

Ito do, -- and therefore, as it was given all on one great page, and

the paper refers only to the particular columns thereof, have

drawn lines with a black-lead pencil under those words in the

Ipaper, which are to be altered according to the words standing

against them in an additional paper which have fastened to
the margin. So that if the Royal Society pleases to print the

Table on four pages, a« I herewith send it you divided, you'll be

so good as to dash out those words in the original paper under
which the black-lead lines are drawn ; and then the printer will
understand, that instead of them, he is to take in the words on

the margin ; and, although I hope the transmitted copy of the
Table on four pages is correct, yet I could wish, that the Com

positor had the original one before him, to go by the numbers

therein.

   " But if the Royal Society think proper to print only the

general account in the paper, without the Table, then, 1 beg
you will tear off the additional paper on the margin, and rub

Iout the above-mentioned black-lead lines against it in the paper,

in the second page whereof find that some gentleman has put

Iin a very proper correction, -- viz. A.D. 2665, which had omit
ted, and for which I . really obliged to him. -- I am, with

great respect,

                Reverend Sir,

                Your most obliged humble servant,

Mortimer Street, Feb. Wlh, 1764.  JaMES FERGUSON."

    " The Compositor told me that he could spare the paper for
a fortnight."

   The original of this letter is among the " Birch Letters,"
British Museum, No. 4308.

   Ferguson at Liverpool -- Lectures there, and Observes
Eclipses in March and April. --Early in the month of March,

1764, Ferguson left London for Liverpool to deliver his course
of Lectures on Astronomy, Mechanics, Hydrostatics, Pneuma
tics, Optics, &c. His lectures were delivered in the large room
of the Golden Lion Inn, Bale Street, commonly called " Buck's
292 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Rooms;" and during his month's sojourn, he resided with his

friend Captain Hutchinson, Dock-master. '"2

The Great Solar Eclipse of April 1st took place during Fer

guson's stay in Liverpool. We shall give his own account of

as observed by him in Liverpool, in the following long and
it,

                                             :
interesting letter to his friend, the Reverend Dr. Birch, Secre

tary, Royal Society --

                                                          "Liverpool, April 2d, 1764.

   " Reverend Sir,-- Having been in this Town since the be

ginning of March, and hoping that the sky would prove favour

able (as to my great joy did) for observing both the Lunar
Eclipse of March the 17th and the Solar Eclipse of yesterday,
I

             a
                                           it

                                                      it
                                                                            by

                                                                                             is

                                                            I
proposed to Captain Hutchinson, at whose house stay, to

have      meridian line drawn on the leads, on the top of his

house, in order to adjust his clock for observing the times of

these Eclipses by, --and we got Mr. Holden, who master of a

mathematical school here, to do for us, by several observations

of the altitude and azimuth of the Sun day, and of the Stars

by night, and there were such exact agreements found by many

repeated observations, that no doubt could remain of the meri

dian being very well ascertained. The same gentleman, who

justly esteemed to be very accurate observer, and an able
is
                   is
                                             is a

                                                                           a
                                                                              34
                                                                                                a

                                                                                                                                                        ;
calculator, finds the latitude of Liverpool to be 53° 22', and its

longitude             generally thought to be three degrees west of
Greenwich, -- but he believes to be somewhat less.1"3

M2 Captain William Hutchinson was native of Neweastle-on-Tyne. In 1750
he had the command of the Government Frigate Leostafle.                   In 1758 he invented
mirrors for Lighthouses. In 1760 he was appointed Dock-master of Liverpool
                       fitted up Bidstone Lighthouse                       with Reflectors -- the first ever
and   in  same year,  in Cheshire, about miles
used  --  (Bidstone,                                                      NW of Liverpool). From the

1st January, 1768, to 18th August, 1793, he kept Daily Register of the Tides,
Barometer, Weather,   and Winds, at Liverpool.                            "ThaeideTdidahlimReignismtearkwinags
Mt. Richard Holden,   teacher in Liverpool, and                                                                 used by
                                                                                                                out the
"A3000 observations mentioned in the preface to his Tide-Table. In 1794 he pub
lished     Treatist 'on Naval Architecture." He died at an advanced age on

11th February, 1801, after having been 41 years Dock and Harbour Master at
Liverpool, and was buried there, in St. Thomas's Churchyard. Mr. Jolm Ferris,
present librarian Lyceum Library, Liverpool, informs us, that Captain Hutchin
son's Tidal Tables and Calculations are deposited in the Lyceum Library. Mr.
Perris also mentions that the Captain retired from the situation of Dock and
Harbour Master in 1793, and ceased to make observations in
Liverpool Directory, for 1776, we find the Captain's residence,           1796.                  "InWGilloiarem's

                                                                          --viz.
Hutchinson, near the Dock Gates, at No. Old Dock," (near the foot of South
          0'
                                                  If,

                                                                       1
Castle Street, then (ailed Pool Lane).
243 Mr. Hartnup, Astronomer, Observatory, Liverpool, from the most accu
rately-tested observations, Sc., makes his Observatory to be in 53° 24' 48" N,
and in 3° 1" W of Greenwich.
                                                therefore, Captain Hutchinson's house was
                           JAMES FERGUSON.                 293

The clock being duly adjusted by our meridian line, at noon,

and the time being found by observations of several stars in the

evening of March 17th, the apparent time of the beginning of

the Moon's eclipse was observed to be at 10^"- 27' P.M., and the

end at 13»»- 11'.

  On the next day I calculated the time of the ecliptic con

junction of the Sun and Moon for April 1st, by Meyer's Tables,

as we have them published by Mr. Maskelyne, and then made

a projection of the Sun's eclipse for that time by them, for this

place, according to its latitude, as determined by Mr. Holden,

and supposing its longitude to be 3 degrees west from Green
wich, and put up this projection in the council-room, that it

might be seen, in order to find how it might agree with obser

vation.

   Being provided with a good reHeeting telescope at Captain

Hutchinson's, I cut a round hole in a paste-board which would

go tight on the tube, and took the Sun's image on a paper be

    4

         it,

                     I
                           I
hind     as large as could have the image of the Sun, sharp

and well defined around the edge, which was included in a circle

of inches in diameter.            divided the diameter into 12 equal

parts, for digits, and each digit into parts, the half of every
                                        4
fourth part being left to be estimated    by     the eye.

    Mr. Holden, and two other gentlemen, who are esteemed

good observers, and were provided with refracting telescopes,
and Hadley's quadrants, were with me on Sunday morning,
and desired third gentleman to note down the times, and
    I

                        a

to be careful not to mistake the minutes of time, as one might

be more apt perhaps to mistake the minutes than the seconds.
The clouds threatened us disappointment till about ten minutes

before the calculated time of the beginning of the Eclipse, and

then the Sun shone out very clear, and during the time of ob

servation we were but seldom interrupted by thin flying clouds.

    The first and last contacts of the Moon and Sun were so sharp

and instantaneous, that seemed possible to determine them

within one second of time, -- several altitudes of the Sun were
      1
        1'

                                     it

                                                     is
                                                                                      is

                                                               If

                                                                                                                                         1
taken during the Eclipse by reflecting the Sun's image from a

at No. Old Dock, Liverpool, the latitude given by Mr. Holden htis an error of

at least 21" when the Liverpool Observatory reduced to the site No. Old
Dock, the true latitude of which
                                  52° 23' 21".   the Captam's private resi

dence was in the southern extremity of the suburb of Toxteth Park, then the

latitude given by Holden might be about correct
294 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

basin uf treacle, and the quantities eclipsed were plainly visible
on the fore-mentioned image of the Sun on the paper, even to
the eighth part of a digit. But the altitudes want yet to be
corrected by their respective refractions.

    Several people came into the room to see the Eclipse, some

Iof whom were subscribers to my lectures, and could not well
Irefuse them admittance. But told them before-hand that

they must neither speak nor move till the Eclipse was found

Ito be begun, -- this they strictly complied with, and gave no

manner of disturbance, and, after it was begun, desired theni
all to come and view it by the telescope, which hindered me
from observing the number of digits eclipsed for the first hour.

  I kept by the reflecting telescope, and watched the Sun care

fully for about five minutes before the calculated time of the
beginning of the Eclipse. Our watches were adjusted to the
mean or equal time, and two of them kept exactly alike during
the whole time of the Eclipse, --the Observations were as fol
lows :--

   s h.           5h                110           Digits.           Sun's Altitude.
             11 '>                          Eclipse Begun.          28° 37' 00"
                  13
111                                                            84   35 49 30
111               is                      11 9
1t1
1(1               21                11 II                      9}   36 29         0
10                :>o                                     1"        37 0          0 uncertain.
111               38                0 u0 0
111                in                     11 lOf
111
111                                                          104

10                                          104                     37 20         0

                                            10

                                                     9

                            30              Cusps Ik?i pt-iulii ular by a |dumh-liue's shadow
                                            u11 the Sun's imagi'. Sun's altitude then,

10 j;;                                                              38 48         0

111                         30 84                                   3S 57 30
lu 54                                              8                39 8 30
                  3 17
               l1              0030 7
11 11 11 11
                        12  45                       4 *4 5 6 <iiJ
                        15   1i
           11 19
                            45
                        li
                            ,15
                        35                            uncertain, on account of thin
                        15                           flying cloud.
11 11 11                    by                       2                          a
           11 5u                                       (
                              J\ I 0                                                         a
                                    15      Eclipse      uncertain, by  another   cloud.
                                    45               euded, Sky quite    clear--                        bySun's Altitude

                                                                    47° 27' 0",

all wrote down                      Mr. Baxtouden, who kept copy thereof.                                   At

night, Mr. Holden returned and examined the clock                                                           the

Stars, and found the time shown by the clock to be true.
                                    JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                             29o

    Between the beginning and the middle of the Eclipse, we
could plainly perceive inequalities in the Moon's eastern limb

Ion the Sun, by means of the reflecting telescope, and often

observed little tremulous bright specks of the Sun's lowermost

cusp, but they vanished in an instant, except one, which was
considerably larger than any of the rest, and was visible for

Iabout two or three seconds of time by estimation ;-- but was

so intent upon observing and looking for others, that forgot
to have the time of its appearance marked down. This un

doubtedly was owing to dent or valley in that part of the
limb of the Moon which no hill beyond took off from the

sight.
   But as the Eclipse was drawing toward the end, we could

perceive no inequalities of the Moon's western limb on the Sun,

nor any such specks in the Sun's edge about either of the
                                    a it,
                                                                it

                                                                     I

cusps.244

   As the Moon's latitude was north ascending, and the cusps
not perpendicular till after the middle of the Eclipse, appre
                                                                                                                  1
hend that when they were so, the present altitudes of the
centres of the Sun and Moon were equal. But whether they                                                            1I
                                                                                                                           1
were then so or not              I     leave to better judgments to deter

mine.                                if

I    shall now set down the times of the beginning, middle, and

    K44     PrBaosebaa"dbslyB"aitlhmtfe'issgehtB"ebnliedttsle,su"btrsetmituustloeo,dusanfosdpr etcthkhisas t"   were no other than what    is      now
known                                                                                                          the first record of them,      is
flit-ion's                                                                                                      of Baily's. The following       i'Per-

                                                                                                                                                       an

account of similar phenomenon, partly produced by artificial means, observed
     "Macrtainn,notwhhoeresayosm, it to mentionit a
by                    a                          Ia  very unusual Plueiwmetum that                                          observed
    I

about ten years ago (1737) in my darkened room. The window looked toward
the west, and the spire of Chichester Cathedral was directly before me at the
                                                     used very often to divert myself in observ
distance of about 50 or 60 yards.

ing the pleasant malmer in which the Sun passed behind the spire, and was
eclipsed by for some time for the image of the spire and Sun were very large,
                                 ;

being made by lens of 12 feet focal distance. And once as observed the
occultation of the Sun behind the spire, just as the disk disappeared, saw several
small bright round bodies or balls running towards the Sun from the dark part
of the room, even at the distance of 20 mches; observed their motion was
                                                                                                               I                                  a

little irregular, but rectilinear, and seemed accelerated as they approached tin-
Sun. These luminous globules appeared also on the other side of the spire, and
preceded the Sun, running out into the dark room, sometimes more, sometimes
leas together, in the same manner as they followed the Sun at its occultation.

They appeared to be in general about ^ of an inch in diameter, and must there-

lore be very large luminous globes in some part of the heavens, whose light was
extinguished by that of the Sun, so that they appeared not in open day light
                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                          ;
but  whether of    the meteor    k"mPdh, iloosrowphhiaat  sort of bodies                                          they might be, could
not  conjecture."      Martin's                            Britannica,"                                           London, 1747, vol. 2d,

pp. 298, 299.
296 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

ending of the Eclipse, as predetermined by the above-mentioned
projection thereof for Liverpool from Meyer's Tables, which were
the apparent times ; and shall reduce the observed equal times

to the apparent, by subtracting 3 minutes 48 seconds (which we
suppose here was the equation of time) from the equal times as
observed by the clock and two watches, which kept equally

going together.

                                            Apparent Times.
                                                 By Observation.
                                 Bv Projection.

Beginning,           .        .  8 ho. 56'  0"   8 ho. 55' 12"
                        .
Middle,           .              10 21 45        not certain.
                        .
End, .               .        .  11 48 0 11 4(i 57

Duration, .                      2 52       0    2 51 45

Digits Eclipsed,                    1<i|$        104 exactly.

We wish for the accounts of the observed times at the Royal

Observatory and at London ; because, by comparing the differ

ence, and making allowance for the velocity of the penumbra

between Liverpool and London, the longitude of Liverpool

might be known.

    As the observed quantity was somewhat greater than the pro

Ijected, as so the digits and the projection which gave in some

time ago to the Royal Society, from Meyer's Elements, made

the lower edges of the Sun and Moon to be nearly in contact at

the greatest obscuration at Greenwich, I am apt to think that
the appearance at Greenwich was annular, -- and am with the

greatest esteem,

                     Reverend Sir,

                        Your most obliged humble servant,
                                                     James Ferguson."

"To the Rev. Thomas Bmcii, D.D.,
            Secretary, F.R.S."

   The original letter is among the " Birch Letters? British
Museum, No. 2020.

   The annexed woodcut is a representation of the Great
Solar Eclipse, as seen at Liverpool on April 1st, 1764, at the

time of middle of the Eclipse, --viz. 10 hours 21 minutes 45

seconds, when 10£ digits were eclipsed. This representation of
the Eclipse is copied from one of that year.

   The foregoing letter was read by Dr. Birch to the mem
JAMES FERGUSON.                                                    297

bers of the Royal Society on April 5th. In the Society's books

the paper is entitled,

" Observations on the Eclipse of the Sun, April 1st, 17fi4." Read
before the Royal Society on 5th April, 1764. (See Phil. Trans,

vol. 54, pp. 107, 108).

                           Solar Eclipse, as seen at Liverpool, 1st April, 1761.

    The beginning of this letter on the Solar Eclipse shows, that
Ferguson was about a month in Liverpool at this period, and
that during his sojourn he resided with Captain Hutchinson.

   Astronomical Clock. -- In Ferguson's " Tables and Tvadu"
we read --

  " In the year 1764, when I happened to be in Liverpool,
I contrived a clock for Captain Hutchinson, who is Dock-

master of the place, for showing the age and phases of the
Moon, and the time of High and Low water at Liverpool, every
day of the year, with the state of the tides at any time of the
day ; by looking at the Clock."

   " At the right and left hand lower corners of the Dial-plate,

under the common circles for the hours and minutes, there are
two small circular plates. On the plate at the left hand are
two circular spaces, the outermost of which is divided into
twice twelve hours, with their halves and quarters ; with'in which,
the second circular space is divided into '2i)jj equal parts for the
 298 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF
 days of the Moon's age ; each day standing under the time of
 the Moon's coming to the meridian on that day, in the circle of

 24 hours. An axis comes through the centre of this plate, and
 carries two indexes round it in 29 days 12 hours 45 min., or
 from change to change of the Moon : and these indexes are set
 as far asunder as the time of High water at Liverpool differs
 from the time of the Moon's coming to the meridian. So that,
 by looking on this plate in the morning, one may see at what
 time the Moon will be on the meridian, and at what time it
 will be High water at the place.

                                          Dial-plate of Astronomical Clock.

   On the righfct hand plate, around its edge, all the different
states of the tit; les are marked, from High to Low, and from Low
to High; and within appellations is a shaded ellipsis, the
highest points* of which represent High water, and the lowest
parts Low warier. An index goes round this plate in the time
of the MoonJs revolving from the meridian to the meridian
a«-ain : and tit all different times, points out the state of the
tide, as it mp.y be then High or Low, rising or falling.

   In the arih of the Dial-plate above the hour of XII, a blue

 plate rises and falls as the tides do at Liverjxtol ; and over this
 plate, in a painted sky, a globular ball, half black, half white,
                   JAMES FERGUSON.  299

shows the phases of the Moon for every day of her age through

out the year.

   The wheel-work   for showing     these appearances is as fol
                   teeth- is fixed  on the axis of the twelve-
lows :--
  A wheel of 30

hour hand, and turns round with it. This wheel turns a wheel

of 60 teeth round in 24 hours, and on its axis is a wheel of 57

                                    Plan of the Astronomical Wheel-work.

teeth, which turns round in the same time, and turns a wheel
of 59 teeth round in 24 hours 50J minutes, on whose axis is
the index on the right hand corner-plate, going round the plate
in the time of the Moon's revolving from the meridian to the
meridian again ; and showing the state of the tide at any time,
when the clock is looked at. On the axis of the same wheel of
59 teeth is fixed an elliptical plate, which raises and lets down
the Tide-plate in the arch twice in 24 hours 50£ minutes, in
which time there are two ebbings and two Sowings of the
Tides.

   The above-mentioned wheel of 57 teeth has a pinion of lti
leaves on its axis, turning round a wheel of 70 teeth, on whose
axis is a pinion of 8 leaves, turning a wheel of 40 teeth, which
turns a wheel of 54 teeth round in 29 days 12 hours 45
minutes ; and on the axis of the wheel of 54 teeth are the two
300 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

indexes on the left hand corner plate, fur showing the Moon's

age on that plate, with the time of her southing and of High

water.

    The wheel of 40 teeth here mentioned might have been of

any other number, and might have been left out, if the pinion

of 8 leaves had taken into the wheel of 54 teeth ; hut then the

index would have gone the wrong way round the dial-plate.
So that the oidy use of the wheel of 40 is to be a leading wheel

for turning the index round the right way.
    On the axis of the wheel of 54 teeth (which turns round in

a lunation) is a small wheel of 20, turning a contrate wheel of
the same number, on whose axis is the globular Moon (half
black, half white) in the arch, turning round in a lunation, and
showing all her phases." (Vide Ferguson's " Table* and Tracts."
Loud., 1767, pp. 122--126).

    As Ferguson gives no engravings of the Dial-face and the
wheel-work of this Clock in any of his published works, we
here give them --on a reduced scale --from his unpublished
MS. "Common Place Book," p. 94, (Col. Lib. Edin.)

    In April of this year, Ferguson appears to have finished his
Course or Courses of Lectures in Liverpool, when he left
for London, by way of Manchester, Stockport, Birmingham,
Bristol, Bath, &c. In the Bath Chronicle of 10th May, 1764,
Ferguson's name appears among the " arrivals " at Bath on

that day.

    It is not known if he lectured at any of the above-men
tioned places, but from an old memorandum, it is obvious

 that he sojourned several days in Stockport, examining the in
genious Mr. Earnshaw's Mechanical curiosities, and Astronomi

cal Clocks,245 and in conversing with him on such matters.
During one of these interviews, Mr. Earnshaw gave Ferguson a

 calculation he had made for producing a motion to show the

 Sun's place in the ecliptic every day in the year (or the appa
 rent annual revolution of the Sun). Ferguson appears to have
 estimated very highly the simple set of wheel-work deduced
 from Mr. Earnshaw's calculation ; so much so, that he gives it a

W Mr. Edward Eurushuw (not Arnshaw) was mi ingenious Clock and Watch
maker at Stockport, near Manchester. He was the inventor and maker of a great
many astronomical   clocks, orreries, and philosophical apparatus.  A"  writer
                    a regular Noah's Ark of Mechanical nick-nacks.       So in  says
that "his shop was                                                              Mr.

Karushaw's company Ferguson would he quite at home.
                                      JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                301

place in his " Tables and Tracts," published three years after
wards, in an article entitled,

   " An easy method for showing the Sun's place in the Ecliptic
every day of the year, in a Clock ; and his motion round the
Ecliptic in a Solar year."

    The following is his short description of this annual
motion, and as he gives no drawing of we here annex sec

tion of the wheel-work, drawn from the description. -- Ferguson

says,

   "Let a pinion of 12 leaves be turned round once every ten

hours, and, this pinion take into a wheel of 67 teeth, on whose
axis let there be single-threaded screw taking into a wheel of
157 teeth. This last wheel will turn round in 365 days hours
                               a
                                                                          it,

                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                          a

                                Mr. Karn.ifuiw's Annual Train.

49 min. 50 sec. And an index on its axis will carry a Sun

through the whole 360 degrees of an ecliptic, engraven on the

dial-plate, in the same time and may show the days of the
                                                ;
months on another circle within the ecliptic.216 This was the;

contrivance of Mr. Arnshaw, near Manchester, who communi    ;
                                                                    d.
cated to me."                       Tables and Tracts." Lond., 17G7, pp. 128,5
        it                      ("

129).                              a

      M« This        very awkward train of wheels--one which few would adopt
               is                                                                            a
                 8a                                                                             ;
                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                          it
                                                                                                                 is
here indis|ieusable that the first mover turn round in 10 hours, and to get this
done would, we presume, be troublesome also, endless screws ought to be avoid
ed. The train                stated bv Ferguson   tfoorpro1d}uxce,JT365=
                     d. is        h. 49 m. 59s.,                                         =49 m. 50 s. on trial,d.h.
                            5                                                         5
                             8765 h. 49 m. 59 s.                                  ntfiv< and 10519-^12
we find 1      365                                =365                            m. 59s. being period too

8765 83333 h., orit                                                        b. 49

slow by m. s. Ferguson's own old orrery period, besides being more conveni
ent, comes much nearer to the truth, and could be got up much easier than Earn-
shaw's, -- thus,     Ferguson, in his       orreries, has ^ x,r, v ^V^T^ftSji
-^392 = 365d.                  48 m. 58 77                                                   a"d 143175
                  85                        s., being only about s. too slow,                while Earn-
                        h.                                                        6

shaw's  x is   m. s. (= 68 seconds) and by adopting Ferguson's ratio Tj¥,V5> to
            1
a common clock with                   12 hour mover, the wheels would require to be
        A AA> or             x n7?* iiV> tnis being wheel-work to be applied to 12 hours as
aA    xAxAfirst mover, and   ^              to 24 hours as a first mover, which the first
     x                                                                                       is

mover in the orrery.
302 EXTENDED MEMOIK OF

Table of Pendulum Lengths. -- In 1764, Ferguson calcu
lated and published "A Table for showing what length a Pen
dulum must be to make any given number of Vibrations in
a minute, from 1 to 300, in the latitude of London ; Calcu
lated, to the  hundredth part of an Inch, by    James Ferguson,
a.d. 1764."    MS. " Common Place Book," (Col.   Lib. Edin.) p. 56.

The half of this Table was inserted in his " Tables and

Tracts," pp. 108, 109 (published in 1767), under the following
title :-- " A Table, showing of what length a Pendulum must
be to make any given number of Vibrations in a minute,
from 1 to 180, in Lot, 51° 30."
                                      this  Table  :--
    The following arc extracted from
  A pendulum to make 1 vibration in a minute must be
1 1738 feet 4'800 inches in length, -- one to make 30 vibra
tions in a minute, 13 feet 0 512 inches, -- one to make 60
vibrations in a minute, 3 feet 3128 inches (39128 inches), --

and one to make 180 vibrations, 4 347 inches.

Description of the Mechanical Paradox-- Published. --

Ferguson appears to have returned to London from his

Liverpool tour, by way of Bath, somewhere about the

middle of May, 1764, when we find him publishing a pamphlet

of 16 octavo pages, with large frontispiece plate of the

Paradox, describing its use, &c. He, at the conclusion of his

long letter of date April 10th, 1776 (inserted in this work under

date 1750), mentions, that after having kept the Paradox be

side him for several years, without finding a ny one who could
explain the principles on which it acted, converted it into a

simple Orrery, and then published this pamphlet, describing its
several parts, and its use as an orrery, " in order to save himself
the trouble of explaining it any longer." This pamphlet has

been for the last eighty years or so, out of print; consequently,

it is rarelv to be found, and when it a very high price
           is
              it.

                 it,

                                                         a
                                                                            is,

                                                                                                                    :

                                                                                                           is
asked for      Our search extended over a period of ten or

twelve years; and when at last a copy was found, ten shillings

was paid for the original cost being one shilling only.          The
following a copy of the title-page of this pamphlet --

"The Description and Use of New Machine called the Mechani
cal Paradox, invented by James Ferguson, F.R.S. London: Printed
         JAMES FERGUSON.           303

       for the author, and sold by A. Millar, Bookseller, in the Strand.
      kocclxiv. Price One Shilling."

   New Pyrometer. -- In 1764 Ferguson invented and made

a new Pyrometer, as he, and others, had found his old one of
1759 defective. This Pyrometer is of a different construction,
and indicates with greater accuracy, and more strikingly, the
expansion of metals by heat. The following are his figure

and description of this instrument :--
   " A Pyrometer, that makes the Expansion of Metals by Heat

Visible to the five-and-forty-thousandth Part of an Inch.
    The upper surface of this machine is represented in Fig. 1 in

the annexed cut. Its frame A B C D is made of mahogany

Fig. l.

                          Fig. 2.

                                                               New Pyrometer.

wood, on which is a circle divided into 360 equal parts ; and

within that circle is another, divided into 8 equal parts. If the

short bar E be pushed one inch forward (or toward the centre
of the circle), the index e will be turned 125 times round the
circle of 360 parts or degrees. As 125 times 360 is 45,000, 'tis
evident, that if the bar E be moved only the 45,000th part of an
inch, the index will move one degree of the circle. But as in my

Pyrometer, the circle is 9 inches in diameter, the motion of the
index is visible to half a degree, which answers to the ninety
304 EXTENDED MEMOIK OF

thousandth part of an inch in the motion, or pushing of the
short bar E.

   One end of a long bar of metal F is laid into a hollow place

in a piece of iron G, which is fixed to the frame of the machine;

/and the other end of this bar is laid against the end of the short

bar E, over the supporting cross-bar H I ; and, as the end of

the long bar is placed close against the end of the short bar, 'tis

plain, that if F expands, it will push E forward and turn the

index e.

    The machine stands on four short pillars, high enough from
a table, to let a spirit-lamp be put on the table, under the bar

F ; and, when that is done, the heat of the flame of the lamp

expands the bar, and turns the index.
    There are bars of different metals, as silver, brass, and iron ;

all of the same length as the bar F, for trying experiments on
the different expansion of different metals, by equal degrees of
heat applied to them for equal lengths of time ; which may be
measured by a pendulum that swings seconds, --Thus,

   Put on the brass bar F, and set the index to the 360th degree ;
then put the lighted lamp under the bar, and count the num
ber of seconds in which the index goes round the plate, from
360 to 360 again ; and then blow out the lamp, and take away
the bar.

   This done, put on an iron bar F where the brass one was be

fore, and then set the index to the 360th degree again. Light
the lamp, and put it under the iron-bar, and let it remain just
as many seconds as it did under the brass one ; and then blow
it out, and you will see how many degrees the index has moved
in the circle ; and by that means you will know in what
proportion the expansion of iron is to the expansion of brass ;

Iwhich find to be as 210 is to 360, or as 7 is to 12. By this

method the relative expansion of different metals may be

found.

    The bars ought to be exactly of equal size ; and to have them
so, they should be drawn, like wire, through a hole.

    When the lamp is blown out, you will see the index turn
backward ; which shows that the metal contracts as it cools.

    The inside of this Pyrometer is constructed as follows :

   In Fig. 2 A a is the short bar, which moves between the roll

ers; and, on the side a it has 15 teeth in an inch, which takes
                                 JAMES FERGUSON.                                    305

into the leaves of a pinion B (12 in number) on whose axis is
the wheel C of 100 teeth, which take into the 10 leaves of the

pinion F, on the top of whose axis is the index above-men

tioned.

   Now, as the wheels C and E have 100 teeth each ; and the
pinions D and F have ten leaves each ; 'tis plain, that if the
wheel c turns once round, the pinion F and the index on its

axis will turn 100 times round.217 But, as the first pinion B
has only 12 leaves, and the bar A a that turns it has 15 teeth

in an inch, which is 12 and a fourth part more ; one-inch mo

tion of the bar will cause the last pinion F to turn an hundred

times round, and a fourth part of an hundred over and above,

which is 25. So that, if A a be pushed one inch, F will be

turned 125 times round.'"s

   A silk thread b is tied to the axis of the pinion D, and wound

several times round it ; and the other end of the thread is tied

/to a piece of slender watch-spring G which is fixed into the

stud H. So that, as the bar expands, and pushes the bar A a

forward, the thread winds round the axle, and draws out the

spring; and as the bar contracts, the spring pulls back the
thread, and turns the work the contrary way, which pushes

back the short bar A a against the long bar /. This spring

always keeps the teeth of the wheels in contact with the leaves

of the pinions, and so prevents any shake in the teeth.

   In Fig. 1, the eight divisions of the inner circle are so main-

thousandth parts of an inch in the expansion or contraction of

the bars ; which is just one thousandth part of an inch for each

division moved over by the index." (" Supplement to Fer

guson's     Book of    Lectures on   Mechanics," &c. Lond., 1767,
            15; also,  Supplement    to his "Lectures on Select Sub
pp. 11 --
jects in Mechanics" &c.)

   Hydrostatic Machine for showing the Upward Pressure
of Fluids. -- According to an old drawing and description, in

These wheels and pinions may be expressed, and velocities ascertained,
                    --
as follows  X                    and 10,000-^in0 = in0 times the pinion F

                              ^

turns round for one turn of the first mover.

JMS                                                    -- x  ---           - ,]
This may also be similarly       illustrated,--  viz.             x  ^15=  150,000  and
                                                       100   100
=150,000-^1200
                125 times as above.

                                     2Q
306 KXTENDKD MEMOIR OF

manuscript, of this Hydrostatic Machine, it appears that it was
invented and made by Ferguson in July, 17u'4, as a substitute
for the common Hydrostatic-bellows. Annexed is a woodeut
of this machine and its details, with his description, taken
from the " Supplement " to his " Lectures on Select Subjects in
Mechanics," &c.

   " In Fig. 1, A B C D is an oblong square box, in one end of

which is a round groove, as at a, from top to bottom, for receiv
ing the upright glass tube I, which is bent to a right angle at
the lower cud (as at i in Fig. 2), and to that part is tied the

end of a large bladder K (Fig. 2). which lies in the bottom of
the box. Over this bladder is laid the moveable board L (Figs.

1 and 3), in which is fixed an upright wire M ; and leaden
weights N N, to the -amount of 16 lbs., with holes in their
middle, are put upon the wire, over the board, and press upon
it with all their force.

    The cross-bar p is then put on, to secure the tube from fall
ing, and to keep it in an upright position. And then the piece
E F G is to be put on, the part G sliding tight into the dove-
tail'd groove H, to keep the weights N N horizontal, and the
                      JAMES FKRGUSOK.                               307

wire M upright ; there being a round hole e in the part E F for

receiving the wire.

   There are four upright pins in the four corners of the box

within, each almost an inch long, for the board L to rest upon ;

to keep it from pressing the sides of the bladder below it close

together at first.

   The whole machine being thus put together, pour water into
the tube at top ; and the water will run down the tube into the

bladder below the board ; and after the bladder has been filled

up to the board, continue pouring water into the tube, and the
upward pressure which it will excite in the bladder, will raise
the board with all the weight upon even though the bore of

the tube should be so small, that less than an ounce of water
                      is
would fill it.
                                               ;

                                                  it,
                                                              a
The upward pressure against every part of the board (which
                      equal in area to the area of the bore of
the bladder touches)
the tube, and will be pressed upward with force equal to the

weight of the water in the tube and the sum of all these pres

sures, against so many areas of the board, will be sufficient to

raise with all the weights upon it.("
        it,
   In my opinion, nothing can exceed this simple machine, in
                      ;
making the upward pressure of fluids evident to sight."

   Supplement to Ferguson's Book of Lectures on Mechanics,"
&c. Lond., 1767, pp. 25--27 also, " Supplement to Lectures

on Select Subjects in Mechanics," &c.)
   The following we copied in 1831, from the original

in Ferguson's autograph, then in the possession of Deane

Walker, Esq., Lecturer on Astronomy, London. They appear to
have been all written on the same day in 1764, and are entitled

Curious Memoranda. The first and the last are the same as
those found in his Select Mechanical Exercises -- No. at
                                                                 p.
                                                                             1
                                                                                       p.
168, and No. at 169 No.                               to be found at 235 of his
" Tables and Tracts."
             1.
                    3
                               p.
                                                ;
                                                   2

                                                  is
                           '*CURIOUS MEMORANDA.
                                                                 1
       No. On the Combination of The Letters of the
                                      Alphabet.

   "The Number of different Ways in which all the Letters of
the Alphabet might be combined, or put together, from Let
308 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

ter to 25. Or, tho Number of Changes which might be rung
on any Number of Bells not exceeding the Number of Letters
in the Alphabet.

1A 1
2 B

3C6

4 D 24
5 E 120

6 F 720

7 G 5040

8H     40320

9 I 362880

10 K 3628800

11 L 39916800
12 M 479001600
13 N R227020800

r14 o 87178291200

15 1307674368000

16 Q 209227898*8000

17 K 355687428096000

IS S 6402373705728000

r19 T 121645100408832000

20 2432902008176640000
21 V 51 0909421 71 709440000

22 w 11240OO7277776076800O0

'23 X  25852016738884976640000
24 Y   620448401733239439360000
25 z   1551 1 210043330985984000000

   Thus, 2 letters may be put 2 different ways together; 3 let
ters, 6 different ways; 4 letters, 24 ways; 5 letters, 120 ways;
6 letters, 720 ways ; and so on to the 25th letter, which may be
put 15511210043330985084000000 ways together.

No. 2 "On the Question of four Weights to Weigh any

                      Number of Pounds from 1 to 40.
How 40 pounds weight, or any number of pounds from 1 to 40
may be weighed by four weights, viz. of 1 lb, 3 lbs., 9 lbs., and

27 lbs.
                       JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                             309

   4a Seals                Scale    s.                                                       Scale     Scale
                              B     3o                                                         A         B
   ao A

   CU

   l1                      0 21 27, 3                                                                  9

   23                      1        22 27, 3, 1                                                        9

   33                      0 23 27                                                                     3, 1

   4 1. 3                  0        24 27                                                              3
   59                      3, 1     25 27, 1                                                           3

   (5 9                    3 26 27                                                                     1

   7 9, 1                           27 27                                                              0

   89                      1 28 27, 1                                                                  0
   99                      0 29 27, 3 l

   10 9, 1                 0        30 27, 3                                                           0

   11 9, 3                 1        31 27, 3, 1                                                        0
                           0        32 27, 9                                                           3, 1
   12 9,3

   13  9, 3, 1             0        33 27, 9                                                           3

   14 27                   1, 3, 9 34                                                        27, 9, 1  3

   15 27                   3, 9     35 27, 9                                                           1

   16 27, 1                3, 9     3ti 27, 9                                                          0

   17 27                   9, 1     37 27, 9, 1                                                        0

   18 27                   9        38 27, 9, 3                                                        1

   19 27, 1                9        39 27, 9, 3                                                        0

   20 27, 3                9, 1     40 27, 9, 3, 1 0

                                          Explanation.                                                    it
                                                                                                                             it,
   The two columns under Puiuuls express the number of pounds to be
weighed: to the right hand of which, the column under A shows what weights
are to be put into one scale of the balance, and the column under B shows
what weights are to be put into the other : by which means, the scale B will
be so much lighter thau the scale A, as to require a weight to be put into
equal to the given number of pounds to be weighed, as stated at the left
hand, under Poutuls, against the weights in the scales; and then the balance
will be even.

        to the above four mentioned weights one of 81 pounds be added, you

Ifmay weigh 121 pounds; or any number from to 121 pounds -- to weights

             27, 81.
1,

   3, If,

          9,
                                                                                          1

       No. The Cistern Question.
   a
           a

                           3.

                                   it
                                               a

                                                                      ;
Suppose square Cistern to be Mile wide and a Mile deep,

or to contain Cubic Mile of Water and that a Cubic Yard of

Water should run Oft' from every Minute until was quite
emptied. -- Query, How much Time would all the Water take

to run out of the Cistern
       a

                                 ?
   Answer. -- 5451776000 minutes; because there are                                                            so  many
cubic yards in cubic mile --or 10365 Julian Years,                                                            139   days,

7  hours, 20 minutes.
310 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

  Solution :-- 1760 X 1760 X 1760 = 545 1776000 = cubic yards in a cubic mile,
--and 365J days = a Julian Year,-- and 365|X24x60=525960 minutes ina
Julian Year-- therefore 5451776000H-525960= 10365-381398 or 10365 Julian

     Years 139 Days, 7 Hours, 20 Min.         James Ferguson.

                                           London, 22 August, 1764."

   Hydraulic Machine for showing the cause of Ebbing and
Flowing Wells. --In a visit to Deane Walker, Esq., London,

in 1831, we were shown a large and beautiful drawing of

this machine in Indian ink by Ferguson, having the sectional

view of a hill above;          and so as to show to the eye, the cause

of the ebb and flow of Wells or Reciprocating Springs. Theit,
                                       it
drawing bad no description, being only designated as alwve,
and having "James Ferguson, delin., London, 1764," neatly

     written in the lower right hand corner. Ferguson does not

allude to this machine in his "Lecture* on Select Subjects," &e,

     published in 17(H) an engraving and description of however,is
         to be found in his " Supplement " to these Lectures, pubit,
it is
     lished in 1767. From this             appears that this curious and

     now well known apparatus was invented and made between

     the years 1760 and 1767, and therefore, there little or no

     doubt that the machine was constructed when the drawing of

        was made --sometime in 1764.

       Ferguson, during his lecturing tour in Derbyshire, in 1762,

     would no doubt visit the celebrated Ebbing and Flowing

     Well at Tideswell, near Chester-le-Street and, as a matter of
                                           ;

     course, would soon afterwards begin to think of the possibility

     of making a machine to imitate its ebb and flow, for exhibiting

     to his audience in his Hydraulic lectures. As shown above, the

     machine was matured and constructed in 1764, and ever after,

     continued to be one of the most interesting machines amongst

     his hydraulic apparatus.

        The drawing here alluded to appearing to be the original,
     from which the engraving was taken in the " Supplement " to

     his Lectures, no copy was taken. The following engraving and

     description of the machine taken from the Supplement
       is

                     A
                        A is

                                                                1,
                                                                                    by a :
        " The cause of Reciprocating Springs, and of Ebbing and

     Flowing Wells, Explained. -- In Fig. let abed be hill,

     within which a cavern             near the top, filled or fed rains

     or melted snow on the top a, making their way through chinks
JAMES FERGUSON.  311

and crannies into the said cavern, from which proceeds a small
stream c c within the body of the hill, and issues out in a spring
at G on the side of the hill, which will run constantly whilst

the cavern is fed with water.

   From the same cavern A A let there be a small channel D, to

carry water into the cavern B ; and from that cavern let there
be a bended channel E e F, larger than D, joining with the
former channel c c, as at /, before it comes to the side of the

hill; and let the joining at /be below the level of the bottom

of both these caverns.

   As the water rises in the cavern B, it will rise as high in the

channel E e F ; and when it rises to the top of that channel at
e, it will run down the part e F G, and make a swell in the
spring G, which will continue till all the water is drawn off from
the cavern B, by the natural syphon EeF (which carries off

the water faster from B than the channel D brings water to it),
and then the swell will stop, and only the small channel c c will
carry water to the spring G, till the cavern B is filled to B again
by the rill D ; and then the water being at the top e of the

channel EeF, that channel will act again as a syphon, and

carry off all the water from B to the spring G, and so

make a swelling flow of water at G as before.
312 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

To illustrate this by a machine (Fig. 2), let A be a large

wooden box, filled with water ; and let a small pipe c c (the
upper end of which is fixed into the bottom of the box) carry
water from the box to G, where it will run off constantly, like

a small spring. Let another small pipe D carry water from the

/same box to the box or well B, from which let a syphon E e F

proceed, and join with the pipe c c at : the bore of the syphon
being larger than the bore of the feeding pipe D. As the water

from this pipe rises in the well B, it will also rise as high in
the syphon E e F ; and when the syphon is full to the top e, the

water will run over the bend e, down the part e. F, and go off at

the mouth G ; which will make a great stream at G , and that

stream will continue, till the syphon has carried off all the water

from the well B ; the syphon carrying off the water faster from

B than the pipe D brings water to it : and then the swell at G

will cease, and only the water from the small pipe c c will run

off at G, till the pipe D fills the well B again ; and then the

syphon will run, and make a swell at G as before.

And thus, we have an artificial representation of an Ebbing

and Flowing Well, and of a Reciprocating Spring, in a very
                                   A Supplement
natural  and simple manner." ("                         to Ferguson's
Book of   Lectures on Mechanics,"    &c. Lond.,
                                                      1767, pp. 27 --
30 ; also, " Supplement to his Lectures on Select Subjects in

Mechanics," &c.)

   Hygrometer. --Towards the end of the year 1764, Ferguson

invented and made a New Hygrometer or instrument for mea
suring the decrees of moisture, an account and drawing of

which were sent to the Royal Society, and read before that body

on November 8th, 1764. In the Philosophical Transactions.

Ferguson's paper is entitled.

" Description of a New Hygrometer."  Read before the Royal
Society, 8th Nov., 1764. ^See Phil. Trans., vol. 34, page 259).

   In the year 1751, Ferguson invented and made a Hygroscope
--an instrument for showing changes in the air from dry to

moist, and from   moist to dry.      (See pp.  158,   159). The     pre
sent instrument    is called a   Hygrometer             instrument    for
                                               -- an

measuring the degree of humidity in the atmosphere.
                        JAMES FERGUSON.                                                              313

                                                     1765.
    Our first memorandum for 17t!5 refers to a simple method
for finding the quantity and weight of water in pipes, and was

read to the members of the Royal Society. In the Philosophi
cal Transactions, vol. 55, p. 61, the paper is entitled, a

       " Short and Easy Method for Finding the Quantity and Weight of
       Water in a full pipe of any given height and diameter of bore. By
       James Ferguson." Read before the Royal Society, 7th February,
       17G5. See Phil. Trans., vol. 5.r>, page 61 ; also, Universal Maga
        zine, vol. 14.

    We have no copy of, or extract from, this paper on Pipes ;
but on referring to " Tables and Tracts," we find a similar paper,

which, if not a copy of the original in all its details, certainly

contains all that is necessary for solving what he proposed in

the title of his paper. The article referred to is as follows :--
   " A Table, by which the quantity and weight of water in a

cylindrical pipe of any given diameter of bore, and perpendicu
lar height, may be found ; and consequently, the power may be
known that will be sufficient to raise the water to the top of
the pipe, in any pump, or other hydraulic machine.

4 Diameter of the cylindric bore 1 inch.
H
                        Quantity of Wuter  Weight of Water                           In Avoirdnpois
9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Feet  in cubic inches.   in Troy ounces.                                 ounces.

                          9-4247781        29                            49712340      5-4541539
                        18-8495562            a                             9424680  10 9083078
                        28-2743343                                                   16-3624617
                        376991124                                     ;14-9137020    21-8166156
                        47 1238905                                     19-8849360    27 2707695
                        56-5486686                                     24 8561700    32-7249234
                        659734467                                      29-8274040    38-1790773
                        75-3982248                                     34-7986380    43 6332312
                        85-8230029                                     397698720     49 0873851
                                                                       44 -741 1060

   For tens of feet high, remove the decimal points one place;
forward for hundreds of feet, two places for thousands, three;

places and so on.
314 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   Then multiply the sums by the square of the diameter of
the given bore, and the product will be the answer.

   Example. --Query, The quantity and weight of water in a

cylindrical pipe 85 feet high, and 10 inches diameter ?

 Feet   Cubic inches.      Troy <>unces.           Avoird. Ounces.
HiRl,.

  80 753-982248                397-698720              436-332312
    5 47 123800                  24 856170               27-270769

  85 801 106138                422 554890              463-603081
             mult, by 100                     100                     100

An s>-. 80110613800        42255-489000            46360-308100

    The square of 10 is 100, which number (80110 6) of cubic
inches being divided by 231, the number of cubic inches in a
wine gallon, gives 3426 for the number of gallons; and the
respective weights (42255 489 and 4636O3) being divided by
12, and the latter 16, give 3521 29 for the number of Troy
pounds, and 2897 5 for the number of Avoirdupois pounds, that
the water in the pipe weighs. So much power would be re
quired to balance or support the water in the pipe, and as much
more to work the engine as the friction thereof amounts to."
(pp. 228--230) " Tables and Tracts." Lond., 1767.

   Table of Standard Weights of Money, &c. -- In 1765,

Ferguson computed and compiled

  "A Table, Showing the Standard Weight, Value, and com

parative View of English Silver Money, from King William the
First, A.d. 106C, to A.D. 1765, -- According to the Mint Inden
tures." (Vide MS. " Common Place Book," p. 83, Col. Lib. Edin.
"Select Mechanical Exercises," pp. 163, 164).

   In the same year Ferguson discovered a method for showing

how much time is contained in any given number of mean
lunations, which he made the subject of a paper sent to the
Royal Society. The paper, in the Philosophical Transactions,
is entitled,

        " Short and Easy Method for Finding the Quantity of Time con
        tained in any given number of Lunations, and number of Mean
        Lunations in any given quantity of time. By James Ferguson."

                                                                                          March, 1765.
               JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                  315

    Ferguson, in " Tables and Tracts," gives an abstract from
this paper in the form of a Table, with explanatory examples
of its use, of which the following is a copy.

   " A Table, showing how much time is contained in any given

number of mean Lunations, the Lunation being 29 days 12
hours 44 minutes 3 seconds 2'" 58V, or 2953059085108

days.249

               Lunations. Days ' Decimals of a day.

               1 29-53059085108
               2 59 06118170216
               3 83 59177255324
               4 118 12236340432
               5 147-65295425540
               6 177-18354510648
               7 206-71413595756
               8 236 24472680864
               9 265-77531765972

    " Although the Table seems to go no further than nine mean
Lunations, yet it will do for any number from 1 Lunation to

900,000,000,000, by removing the decimal point one place for
ward for ten of Lunations, two places forward for hundreds of

Lunations, three places for thousands ; and so on, as in the fol

lowing Examples. For, if we wanted to know how much time

is contained in 10 Lunations, then suppose a cypher put to 1 in
the first column, to make it 10, and the decimal point in the
first line to be put one place forward, it will be 295-3059085108,

for the number of days and decimal parts of a day in 10 Luna

tions. The decimal parts may be reduced to the known parts
of an integral day, by the common method of reducing decimals.

   2-19 It is  nisowslilgohngtlysi"nc<e ipiltmwapserdioisdc,"ov--erveidz.  that this  lunation  period of Fergu
son's time                                                                 a period   of about  10 thirds of time

in excess of the tine mean period in each lunation, or about 2 seconds a-year.
The synodic revolution of the Moon, or the time elapsing between change aml
change, is at a mean rate 29 d. 12 h. 44 m. 2 8765 s. The Chaldeans have record
316 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Example  I. --In 10 Lunations, Query, How much time ?

         Lunatiuns.        Days. Decimals of a day.
            10 I
                          295-3059085 1(18
                                 mult, by 24 h.

                                  12236340432
                                  6118170216

                          Hours 7 3418042592
                                        mult by 60 m.

                          Miu. 20-5082555520
                                         mult, by 60 s.

                          Sec. 30-495333 1200
                                                       60 tkds.

Answer              Thds. 297199872000
         295 days 7 hours 20 miu. 30 sec. 29'719 thiL.

Example II. -- In 74212 mean Lunations, Query, How many

                              days, hours, minutes, &c. ?

         LllllutiollS        Days. Decimals of a day.

          70000           2067141-3595756
            4000            118122-36340432
               200              5906-118170216
                                  295-3059085108
              10i                   59-06118170216

         74212         |  2191524-20824034896
          Lun.               Days. mult, by 24
                                                       h.

                                    83296139584                         zs
                                  41648069792
                                                                        -cs s
                          Hours. 4-997768375O4                               2
                                           mult, by 60 m.
                                                                         c -.
                           Min. 59-86610250240
                                                            60s.        It

                          Sec. 51-96615014400                           35 4
                                                          60 thds.

         Answer;          Thds.   57-96900664000                  see.  thds.
                          Years.      da. ho. min.                51.    57.
                          6000.
                                      24. 4. 59.

ed in their Historical Annals an account of an eclipse of the Moon which hap
pened on 19th March, B.C. 721. -- An eclipse of the Moon occurred on the 28th
April, 1771, having the position of the Moon, the nodes, and apogee, similar to
their position in the Chaldean Eclipse. From 19th March, B.C. 720, and 2Sth
=April, A. n. 1771, there are 910044 152581 davs, or 30817 synodic revolutions
nearly. Therefore, 910044 152581 -=-30817 =' 29 530588 days                     29 d. 12 h.

44 m. 2 88 s., which is the modern standard period for a mean synodic revolution
                JAMES FEROUSON.                                         317

Example  III.--In 100000000000 mean Lunations,                       Query,

                           How much time '(

                Lunations.  [  Days.

                100000000000 I 2053059085108, Ansr.

  In Example III. the number of cyphers annexed to 1 are

equal to the number of decimal parts in the first lino of the
Table ; and therefore the whole of that line becomes a whole

number of integral days, without any fraction. So that, in
100,000,000,000 mean Lunations, there are just 2953059085108

days.                                                                ,
It is somewhat remarkable, that every 49th mean new Moon

falls but 1 min. 30 sec. 34 thirds short of the same time of the

day as before.

                            Example IV.

                Lunations.  Days. Decimals of a day.
                     40
                         9  1181-2236340432
                             26577531765972

                 49         k1446-99895170292
                Lun.
                            Days. mult, by 24

                                399580681 168
                               199790340584

                Hours 23-97484087008
                                   mult, by 60 m.

                 Min. 58-49045220480
                                               60s.

                            Sec. 29-42713228800
                                                           60 thds.

                                           Thds. 25-6279372ROOO
       which wants only 1 minute 30 seconds 34 4 thds. of 1447 days.
318 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

A Table showing how many mean Lunations are contained

                       in any given quantity of time.

i d Decimals of          oJE a Decimals of  / j= Decimals of
                         X   a Lunatiuii.                      a Lunation.
3 £ u Lunation.

i 12-368530038627        1 0-0014109662     1 0-0000003919
                         2 0-0028219345     2 0-0000007838
2 24737060077255         3 0-0042328987     3 0-0000011758
3 37-105590115882        4 0-0056438649     4 0-0000015677
4 49-474120154510        5 0-0070548312     5 0-0000019597
5 61-842650193137        6 0-0084657974     6 0-0000023516
6 74-211180231765        7 0-0098767637     7 0-0000027435
7 86-579710270392        8 0-0112877299     8 0-0000031355
8 98-948240309020        9 0-0126986962     9 0-0000035274
9 111-316770347647

t =' Decimals of         id  Decimals of    *  Decimals of
                             a Lunation.       a Lunation.
aa 3 a Lunatiou.

I 00-033863189760        l 0-0000235161     1 0-0000000065
2 00-067726379520        2 0-0000470322     2 0-0000000131
3 00-101589659280        3 0-0000705483     3 0-0000000196
4 00-135452759040        4 0-0000940644     4 0-0000000262
5 00-169315948800                           5 0-0000000327
6 00-203179138560        5 0-0001175805     6 0-0000000392
                         6 0-0001410966     7 0-0000000457
        00-237042328320  7 0-0001646127     8 0-0000000522
                         8 0-0001881288     9 0-0000000587
8 00-270905518080
                         9 0-0002116448
<J 00-304768707840

   For tens of Julian years, days, hours, &c., remove the decimal

points one place forward ; for hundreds, two places ; for thou
sands, three places ; for tens of thousands, four places ; and so

on, as in the following Example. It appears by the first line
of the above Table that in 10000 Julian years (which contains

36525000 days) there are 12368">3 mean Lunations, and
0038627, or ^WoVo parts of a Lunation, which small fraction
may be neglected.

   (In common working, 'tis sufficient to take in only four or
five of the decimal figures).

Example V. -- In 6000 Julian years, 24 days 4 hours 59 min.
              52 sec., Query, How many mean Lunations?
JAMES FERGUSON.                319

         Lunations. Decimals.

Years 6000 I 74211-180231765

         0-677263795

         0-135452759

         0-005643864

Minutes  0-001175805
         0-000211645

Seconds  0-000019597
         0-000000784

                                         Answer, 74212-000000014.

                           More Examples would be superfluous."

    Besides being read before the Royal Society, the paper was
printed in quarto, entitled, " An Easy Method for Finding the
quantity of time contained in any number of Mean Lunations."
Lond., 1765.

    The following particulars of the effects produced by Villette's
large concave burning mirror, are taken from Ferguson's
autograph ;

  "Villette's Burning Mirror --A short account of M.
Villette's Concave Burning Mirror. This Mirror is 3 feet 11
inches in diameter, and its focal distance is 3 feet 2 inches. It

is made of copper, tin, and bismuth.
   The effect of the Sunbeams on different bodies held in its

focus were as follows :

    1. A piece of Roman tile began to melt in 3 seconds, and was ready

              to drop in 100 seconds.
     2. Chalk fled away in 33 seconds.

    3. A Fossil shell calcined in 7 seconds.

     4. Copper ore vitrified in 8 seconds.
     5. Iron ore melted in 24 seconds.

    6. A great tooth of a fish melted in 33 seconds.

     7. Welch asbestos was a little calcined in 28 seconds.
     8. A King George's halfpenny melted in 16 seconds.
     9. Tin melted in 3 seconds, and had a hole in it in 6.

  J10. A bone calcined in 4 seconds, and was vitrified in 33.

   11. A diamond weighing 4 grains lost parts of its weight.

    Thus, the effects on Chalk, on the Tooth, and on the Bone,
were accomplished in the same time.

   The solar beams are condensed 1700 times in the focus of
this mirror (the condensation in the focus being as the area of
320 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

the minor is to the area of its focus), and their heat, in the

focus, is 433 times as great as the heat of common fire.
                                                          James Ferguson.
                                          "
London,                 26 July,  1765.

See also Ferguson's " Tables and Tracts," pp. 295, 296.

                                                     1766.

   New Orrery. -- Our memoranda for 1766 commence with a

note copied from one of Ferguson's papers (in autograph), which
mentions that he, early in that year, commenced to make a new
Orrery for the illustration of his Astronomical lectures, to su
persede the one he had hitherto used. This orrery was made
with, brass wheels, and was inclosed in a box of twelve

sides, with a brass ecliptic supported on twelve short brass pil
lars, and in all its parts, interior and exterior, resembled the
orrery usually represented in the large frontispiece to his As

tronomy. It also showed the same Astronomical motions, --viz.

" The annual revolutions of Mercury, Venus, and the Earth,
round the Sun, in their proper periodical times ; the Moon's
motion round the Earth, showing her periodical, sidereal,
syuodical, and diurnal motions, with her phases, age, and south
ings ; The motions of the Sun, Venus, and the Earth, round their
respective axes ; the Vicissitudes of Seasons ; the retrograde
motion of the nodes of the Moon's orbit ; with the times of all
the new and full Moons, and of all the Solar and Lunar

Eclipses." This orrery was surmounted by a Sphere, and the

whole was placed under a glass cover of twelve equal sides --
corresponding with the twelve sides of the box; -- the paper
concludes with a quotation from Claud ins epigrammatic

description of Archimedes' s Sphere in Latin, followed by two

translations of it in English, as follows :--

                   '' Jupiter in parvo cum ceneret athera vitro,
                          Kisit et ad Superos talia dicta dedit :

                   Huceine mortalis progrcssa potentia cuw!
                         Jam meus in fragili luditnr orbo labor.

                   Jura pole, rerumque tidem, legesq; Deornm

                             Eeoe Syracusius transtulit arte Senex.
                      Inclusus varus famulatur Spiritus astris,

                          Et vivum certis motibus urget opus.
                      Percurrit proprium mentitus Signifer annum.

                          Et simulata novo Cynthia mense redit.
                      Jamo, suum vol yens audax industria mundum

                          liaudet, et humann Sidera mente regit.
                                 JAMES FERGUSON.                                  321

    QujiEdmfuallsao         insontem tonitm Salmouea miror              I
                            Naturae parva reperta rnanus."

                            Translations.

    " When Jove espy'd in Glass his Heavens made,
       He smiled, and to the other Gods thus said:
      Tis strange that human art so far proceeds,
      To ape in brittle Orbs my greatest deeds.
       The heavenly motions, Nature's constant course,
      Lo! here old Archimede to art transfers.
      Th' inclosed Spirit here each Star doth drive ;
      And to the living work sure motions give.
       The Sun in counterfeit his year doth ran,
       And (Jynthia too her monthly circle turn.
       Since now bold man hath Worlds of 's own descry'd
       He joys, and th' Stars by human art can guide.
       Why should we so admire proud Salmon's cheats,
       When one poor hand Nature's chief work repeats f"

                   (Derham's Artificial Clock Maker, p. 88, :)d Edit)

    " When in a glass's narrow sphere confined,
                   Jove saw the fabric of the Almighty mind,
                   He smiled, and said, ' Can mortal's art alone

                   Our heavenly labour mimic with their own f
                   The Syracusan's brittle work contains
                   The eternal law, that through all nature reigns.

                   Framed by his art, see stars unnumbered burn,

                   And, in their courses, rolling orbs return:

                   His Sun, through various signs describes the year,
                   And, every month, his mimic Moons appear.
                   Our rival's laws his little planets bind,

                   And rale their motions by a human mind.

                   Salmoneus could  our    thunder  cirmeaittaet.e' ."
                   But Archimedes   can    a world

                                           James Ferguson, Ftb. 5th, 1706.

One of Ferguson's Orreries ---with brass wheel-work -- was
gifted to University College, London, in J 851, by Mr. George

.......Walker of Port Louis, probably the orrery just referred to.

The following particulars were supplied by Mr. Atkinson,
Secretary to the College.
Height of brass feet,                                                       3A inches.

,,                 Box, containing the wheel-work,                      ..    8$  ,,
                   From surface of revolving plates to the summit,          17    ,,
,,

                                                                        Total, 29 inches.

DEicalmipettiecr,  Circle;  all  of Brass  and            30 inches.              by
                                                Engraved, and is supported
12 Brass Pillars.
Box, containing the wheel-work, is of Stained Wood -- has 12 sides,

                                           2s
322 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

         ornamented with brass plates --each plate having a name of one

            of the Signs of the Zodiac.

      The Planets are of Ivory ; the Sun is of Brass.
      The Inscriition.-- The inscription in on an oblong plate of White

           Mreeadtasl,asplfaoclelodwsab:o--ve the Sign Virgo on the panel of the box, and
       " This Orrery was made by the self-taught astronomer, James

            Ferguson ; and was purchased after his death by the Rev. George
           Walker, F.R.S., and President of the Literary and Philosophical

         Society of Manchester, who repaired it with his own hands. It

           was presented to University College by his son, George Walker,
           of Port Louis, France, June 27th, 1851."

   Ferguson and his Assistant, Kenneth M'Culloch. -- We

do not know when this orrery was finished ; probably it would
be during 1766. Ferguson not only worked at it with his
own hands, but was ably assisted by an ingenious workman

named Kenneth M'Culloch, who was " well skilled in all the

intricate motions of wheel-work" and who appears to have
worked for Ferguson occasionally, from this period, till Fergu
son's death in 1776.,t0

   On the Division of a Circle into any given number of
equal parts. --The following paper for dividing a Circle into

any given number of equal parts, and which may be found useful
on many occasions, is dated 1766, and belonged to the late Adam
Walker, Esq., Lecturer on Natural Philosophy, London. This
method of division probably suggested itself to Ferguson while
employed upon his orreries, as the numbers of wheel's teeth
selected for illustration, are, in part, the numbers he adopted in

the annual train of his orreries.

250 Kenneth M'Culloch was a native of Scotland, and long in the employ of
Ferguson, assisting him in the construction of his apparatus, clocks, orreries, Ao.
and died at about the age of 80 in the year 1808. Ferguson was exceedingly
fond of Kenneth (or Kenny, as he used to call him ), and from time to time tie-
stowed on him marks of favour, presenting him now and then with mechanical
nick-nacks, such as Card Rotulas, &c., and shortly before his death, Ferguson
gave him a curious table-clock, which showed the motion of the Earth by the
rotation of a small globe.

This note is from Mr. Andrew Keid, who also sometimes worked for Ferguson

about 1772, and who has been often ouoted. In Brewster's Edinburgh Encyclo
pedia, article "Planetary Machines,' p. 636, Kenneth M'Culloch is mentioned
as having been employed to make a Planetary Machine for the Koyal Institution,
London; -- the reference to him notes, that "About the year 1801, one of the or
iginal proprietors of the Royal Institution suggested a plan for exhibiting the
EQUATED motions of all the planet.? at that time discovered. Th is suggestion, being
made soon after the two planets Ceres and Pullas had been discovered, teas adopt
ed; and Kenneth M'Culloch, an aged workman, brought up under James Fergu
son, was                in the construction of the machine  in the workshops  of the In
stitution.  e" mployed
                        JAMES FERGUSON.                                            323

   " To divide the circumference of a circle into any given num

ber of equal parts, whether even or odd.
   As there are very uncommon and odd numbers of teeth in

some of the wheels of astronomical clocks, and which conse

quently could not be cut by any common engine used by clock-
makers for cutting the numbers of teeth in their clock-wheels,

I thought proper to show how to divide the circumference into

any given odd or even number of equal parts, so as that number
may be laid down upon the dividing-plate of a cutting engine."1

   There is no odd number but from which, if a certain number
be subtracted, there will remain an even number, easily to be

subdivided. Thus, supposing the given number of equal parts
divisions of a circle on the dividing-plate to be 69 ; subtract 9,
and there will remain 60.

    Every circle is supposed to contain 360 degrees ; Therefore,
say, as the given number of parts in the circle, which is 69, so
is 9 parts to the corresponding arc of the circle that will contain
them ; which arc, by the Rule of Three, will be found to be

46,9OS0.2M Therefore, by the line of chords on a common scale,
or rather on a sector, set off 46-$^ (or 46190) degrees with your
compasses, in the periphery of the circle, and divide that arc

or portion of the circle into 9 equal parts, and the rest of the
circle into 60; and the whole will be divided into 69 equal

parts, as was required.
   Again, suppose it were required to divide the circumference

of a circle into 83 equal parts ; subtract 3, and 80 will remain.
Then, as 83 parts are to 360, so (by the Rule of Proportion) are
3 parts to 13 degrees and one hundredth part of a degree ;
which small fraction may be neglected. Therefore, by the line
of chords, and compasses, set off 13 degrees in the periphery of

the circle, and divide that portion or arc into 3 equal parts, and
the rest of the circle into 80 ; and the thing will be done.253

    Once more, suppose it were required to divide a circle into
365 equal parts ; subtract 5, and 360 will remain. Then, as

251 We had, for upwards of 30 years, the engine with which Ferguson cut
his wheels ; it has all the numbers on it he here illustrates. But the circles
         and 83 divisions, and                         to have been divided        hand
with 69  probably by Ferguson   some   others, appear  has the slightest use  by   such
-- most                                no clockmaker                          for
                                -- as
numbers, in wheels, as 69 and 83. This engine is now in the Museum of Banff.
=SS2
=W3
Thus, 69 : 360 : : 9    (--360  X9=      3240-^-69        46°. 9565.
69 : 360 : : 9 ?-- 360                   69 46°.    9565.
                        X 9=    3240 -h
324 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

;iC5 parts are to 360 degrees, so are 5 parts to 4-»V<J degrees.
Therefore, set off' 4 ,9U^7(or 4-,%) degrees in the circle ; divide that
space into 5 equal parts, and the rest of the circle into 360 ;

and the whole will be divided into 365 equal parts as was re

quired.254

   I have often found this rule or method very useful in divid

ing circles into an odd number of equal parts, or wheels into

odd numbers of equal siz'd teeth with equal spaces between

them; and now I find it just as easy to divide any given circle

into any odd number of equal parts, as to divide it into an even

number. And, for this purpose, I prefer the line of chords on

a sector to that on a plain scale ; because the sector may be
opened so as to make the radius of the line of chords upon it

equal to the radius of the given circle, unless the radius of the
circle exceeds the whole length of the sector when it is opened,

so as to resemble a straight line, ruler, or scale ; and this is what

very seldom happens.

Any person who is used to handle the compasses, and the

scale or sector, may very easily, by a little practice, take off

degrees, and fractional parts of a degree, by the accuracy of his

eye, from a line of chords, near enough the truth for the above-

mentioned purpose."   --(V4id2e).  also  "Select  Mechanical    Exercises,"
London, 1773, pp. 38

Ferguson has useful directions appended to the foregoing,

showing how to determine the working distance between the
centres of two given wheels, and how to make the teeth and

spaces of the same gauge.

   He puts it as a question thus :--

    " Supposing the distance between the centres of two wheels,
one of which is to turn the other, be given ; that the Number
of Teeth in one of these Wheels is different from the Number

of Teeth in the other, and it is required to make the Diameters

of these Wheels in such Proportion to one another as their

Numbers of teeth are, so that the Teeth in both Wheels may

be of equal Size and the Spaces between them equal, that
either of them may turn the other easily and freely ; it is re

quired to find their Diameters.
   Here it is plain that the distance between the centres of the

= =2M 365 : 5 : : 360 ?-- 36O x5                    4°. 931 5.
                                         18nO-^365
                                      JAMES FERGUSON.                                325

wheels is equal to the sum of both their radii in the working

parts of the teeth. Therefore, as the number of teeth in both

wheels, taken together, is to the distance between their centres,

taken in any kind of measure, as feet, inches, or parts of an

inch ; so is the number of teeth in either of the wheels to the
radius or semi-diameter of that wheel, taken in the like mea

sure, from its centre to the working part of any one of its teeth.

Thus, suppose the two wheels must be of such sizes as to have

the distance between their centres 5 inches ; that one wheel is

to have 75 teeth, and the other to have 33, and that the sizes

of teeth in both the wheels is equal, so that either of them may

turn the other. The sum of the teeth in both wheels is 108 ;

therefore, say as 108 teeth is to 5 inches, so is 75 teeth to

inches ; and as 108 is to 5, so is 33 to l^g inches. So that,

from the centre of the wheel of 75 teeth to the working part of

any tooth in  it,
                  is
                       3
                                    is

                                                 1
                                inches and 47 hundred parts of an inch               by ;

and from the centre of the wheel of 33 teeth to the working

part of either of its teeth,                        inch and 53 hundred parts of an
inch.                                                             James Ferguson.

                                                              July 24<A,1766."

(Also, see "Select Mechanical Exercises." Lond., pp. 42 --44).

   Our next note for 1766 records the death of the Reverend

Dr. Birch, Secretary of the Royal Society, Ferguson's intimate

and influential friend, as he has been designated, whose death
            it
was greatly regretted              by Ferguson.2''5

                                              is
   Universal Dialling Cylinder. -- Towards the end of the

year 1766, Ferguson appears to have invented and made his

celebrated Universal Dialling Cylinder. In the Memoir,
himself, will be recollected that, after mentioning that the
Eclipsareon was the best machine he ever contrived, he says,
"my next best contrivance the Universal Dialling Cylinder
-- the instrument now under consideration. The following

description and figure of this Cylinder are taken from his
" Supplement " to " Lectures on Select Subjects." 256

   2.M The  Roef v"erTehned  Thomas    Birch,   D.D., died in 1766, aged  61 years.    He was
the author                   History  of the   Royal Society of London,"  in which   the most

considerable of those papers communicated to the Society, which have not been
published, are inserted, vols. Lond., 1756, &c. Kerguson appears to have
become acquainted with Dr. Birch about the year 1750.1

M6 The Dialling Sphere was sold in July, 1806, at the public sale of the As-
32C EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   " In the annexed figure, A B C D represents a cylindrical
glass tube, closed at both ends with brass plates, and having a
wire or axis E F G fixed in the centres of the brass at top and
bottom. This tube is fixed to a horizontal board H, and its
axis makes an angle with the board equal to the angle of the
Earth's axis, with the horizon of any given place, for which the
cylinder is to serve as a dial. And it must be set with its axis
parallel to the axis of the world in that place, the end E point
ing to the elevated pole ; or, it may be made to move upon a
joint; and then it may be elevated for any particular latitude.

Tnivors'il Dialling Cylinder.

" There are 24 straight lines, drawn with a diamond, on the

outside of the glass, equidistant from each other, and all of them

parallel to the axis. These are the hour-lines ; and the hours
XIIare set to them as in the figure : the
                                                        next B stands for
midnight, and the opposite XII, next the board H, stands for

mid-day or noon.
   " The axis being elevated to the latitude of the place, and the

foot-board set truly level, with the black line along its middle

tronomical aml Mathematical   collection of the  late   Alexander                                Aubert, Esq.,
Highbury House, Islington.                       third  day of the                               sale (Tuesday,
                             It was sold on the
22d July, 1806), and is thus entered in a priced Catalogue of Messrs. Leigh 4
Sot"hcThhyi:r--d day's Sale -- Catalogue,
                                           p.  w1o4o--denLotfra1m95e. ----tFheisrgulostonso'sld  Dialling Sphere
and a piece of Brass Machinery in          a                                                     for £1 2a.
JAMES FERGUSON.                                              327

in the plane of the meridian, and the end N toward the north ;

the axis E F G will serve as a stile or gnomon, and cast a sha

dow on the hour of the day, among the parallel hour lines, when

the Sun shines on the machine. For, as the Sun's apparent

diurnal motion is equable in the heavens, the shadow of the axis
will move equably in the tube ; and will always fall upon that

hour-line which is opposite to the Sun at any given time.

  " The brass plate A D, at the top, is parallel to the equator,
and the axis E F G is perpendicular to it. If right lines be

drawn from the centre of this plate, to the upper ends of the

equidistant parallel lines on the outside of the tube ; these right

lines will be the hour-lines on the equinoctial dial A D, at 15

degrees distant from each other ; and the hour-letters may be

set to them as in the figure. Then, as the shadow of the axis
within the tube comes on the hour-lines of the tube, it will

cover the like hour-lines on the equinoctial plate A D.
  " If a thin horizontal plate ef be put within the tube so as its

edge may touch the tube all round ; and right lines be drawn

from the centre of that plate to those points of its edge which

are cut by the parallel hour-lines on the tube ; these right lines
will be the hour-lines of a horizontal dial, for the latitude to

which the tube is elevated. For, as the shadow of the axis

comes successively to the hour-lines of the tube, and covers
them, it will then cover the like hour-lines on the horizontal

plate e f, to which the hours may be set, as in the figure.        .
" If a thin vertical plate, g c, be put within the tube, so as to

front the meridian, or 12 o'clock line thereof, and the edge of

this plate touch the tube all round ; and then, if right lines be

drawn from the centre of the plate to those points of its edge

which are cut by the parallel hour-lines on the tube ; these right
lines will be the hour-lines of a vertical south dial ; and the

shadow of the axis will cover them at the same times when it

covers those of the tube.

  " If a thin plate be put within the tube, so as to decline, or

incline, or recline, by any given number of degrees, and right

lines be drawn from its centre to the hour-lines on the tube ;
these right lines will be the hour-lines of a declining, inclining,

or reclining dial, answering to the like number of degrees, for

the latitude to which the tube is elevated.
   " And thus, by this simple machine, all the principles of dial
328 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

ling are made very plain, and evident to the sight. And the

axis of the tube (which is parallel to the axis of the world in
every latitude to which it is elevated) is the stile or gnomon for
all the different kinds of Sun-dials.

"And lastly, if the axis of the tube be drawn out, with the
plates AD, e /, and g c upon
                                    and set up in sunshine, in the
                                    E it,
same position as they were in the tube, you will have an equiF

noctial dial A D, a horizontal dial ef, and a vertical south dial

g      on all which, the time of the day will be shown by the
   ;c

shadow of the axis or gnomon               G.
ABC" Let us now suppose that, instead of a glass tube,
                                                                                  D

is     cylinder of wood on which the 24 parallel hour-lines are
   a                    ;
                            2,
drawn all around, at equal distances from each other and that
                                               is

                                                  A
                                                                          ;
from the points at top, where these lines end. right lines are

drawn toward the centre, on the flat surface D. These right

lines will be the hour-lines on an equinoctial dial, for the lati

tude of the place to which the cylinder elevated above the
horizontal foot or pedestal H and they are equidistant from
                                    ;

                                       is
each other, as in Fig. which a full view of the flat surface
or top AD of the cylinder, seen obliquely in Fig.
                                               is                                 And the

axis of the cylinder (which a straight wireis         E                     all down its
                                                        F
             the stile or gnomon, which                       G

                                                                          1.
middle)  is                                    perpendicular to the

plane of the equator.
   " To make horizontal dial,
             a                  ;          the cylinder, for any latitude
                    is
                                       by
to which its axis elevated draw out the axis and cut the cy
linder quite through, as atehfg, parallel to the horizontal
                                               D/e; and the section
board H, and take off the top part         e

                                             A

                                                                       3.
                                                                              4.
eh fge will be of an elliptical form, as in Fig.                                Then, from

             Fig. Fig. Fig.2.       3.

the points of this section (on the remaining part eBcf) where
the parallel lines on the outside of the cylinder meet
                                               ;                                  draw

                                                                           it,
right lines to the centre of the section and they will be the
                         JAMES FERGUSON.                                  329

true hour-lines for a horizontal dial, as abed a Fig. 3, in which

may be included in a circle drawn on that section. Then put

the wire into its place again, and it will be a stile for casting a
shadow on the time of the day, on that dial. So, E (Fig. 3) is the
stile of the horizontal dial, parallel to the axis of the cylinder.

   " To make a vertical south dial by the cylinder, draw out the

axis, and cut the cylinder perpendicularly to the horizontal

board H, as at g i C k g, beginning at the hour-line (B g e A) of
XII, and making the section at right angles to the line S H N
on the horizontal board. Then, take off the upper part g A D C,

and the face of the section thereon will be elliptical, as shown

in Fig. 4. From the points in the edge of this section, where

the parallel hour-lines on the round surface of the cylinder meet

draw right lines to the centre of the section and they will
F it,                                               :
                 4,                                           ;
                      a
                                                                       a
be the true hour-lines on a vertical direct south dial, for the

latitude to which the cylinder was elevated and will appear as

in Fig. on which the vertical dial may be made of circular

shape, or of square shape, as represented in the figure. And

will be its stile parallel to the axis of the cylinder.
" And thus, by cutting the cylinder any way, so as its section

may either incline, or decline, or recline, by any given number

of degrees and from those points in the edge of the section
;

where the outside parallel hour-lines meet             it,  draw right lines

to the centre of the section and they will be the true hour-lines,
                         ;

for the like declining, reclining, or inclining dial. And the axis

of the cylinder will always be the gnomou or stile of the dial.

For, whichever way the plane of the dial lies, its stile (or the
edge thereof that casts the shadow on the hours of the day)

must be parallel to the Earth's axis, and point toward the
elevated pole of the heavens." (Vide " Supplement to Mr.
                                                    A

Ferguson's Book of Lectures on Mechanics," &c. Lond., 1767,

pp. 42--48).
   This descriptive account of the Universal Dialling Cylinder,

accompanied with drawings, was sent to the Royal Society, and

read before that body on 2d July, 1767. In the records of the

Society the paper entitled,
                         is

                                p.
                                           ;
                                                 2

                                              T
 A New Method of Constructing Sun-Dials for any given Lati

tude, with the assistance of Dialling Scales, or Logarithmic Calcu
lation. Read before the Royal Society on 2d July, 1767." See
Phil. Trans., vol. 57, 389 also, Gentleman's Magazine for March,
1769, where an engraving and description are given.
330 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

The Editor of the " Gentleman's Magazine," for March, 1769,

after announcing the publication of Ferguson's new method of
constructing Sun-dials, says, " This is (like all Mr. Ferguson's

performances) very simple, very ingenious, and explained with

such perspicuity, that to read English is all that is necessary to

understand it ; and consequently, all who read this article will

be able to make a Dial. It however, necessary to insert the
       p.

                                             is,
                                                                          it
                                                                                        is
cut to which this article refers, for illustration, which perhaps

in a future number we may do, and insert this curious and use-

fid article at length." (Gentleman's Magazine for March, 1769,

vol. 39, 101; also, vol. 39, pp. 143, 144, where                                                                                                                                inserted

with copperplate illustrations).

Tables of Specific Gravity, and Force of the Wind. --

The following Tables appear to have been computed and com

piled  A byFerguson sometime in the year 766.
                                                                                                                1
             A Table of the Specific Gravities ok Bodies.                                                         000 00 00 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 4 4 4 4 5 6 6 H1 1 1

             cubic inch of      Troy Weight.                                                                         Avoirtl.                                                   Com par
                               'Z. pw.                                                                          ---                                                               ative
                            I
                                                                                                                   f'/. drams.                                                  Weight.

       Very fine Gold,         Ill 445                                                                                                                                  5-85    19-639
       Standard Gold,          0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 3 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 . 11 !>  > 8 11 3 .Ill                                                             Id 14-88
       Guinea Gold,                                                                                      606                                                  10 4-76           18-887
       Quicksilver,                                                                            ~                                                                                17-793
       Lead,                                                                                             17-18                                                         13-16
       Pure Silver,                                                                                                                                                     8-86    13-565
       Standard Silver,                                                                                  439                                                            6-69
                                                                                                                                                                        1'55    11-325
       Copper,                                                                                1!) 16-32                                                                 3-33    11-090
       Plate Brass,                                                                                                                                                             10 534
       Cast Brass,                                                                            17 o-oo                                                                   13-31
                                                                                                      325                                                             10-08      9-000
       Steel,                                                                                                                                                                     8-344
       Block Tin,                                                                             14 2262                                                                     8-71    8-001
                                                                                                                                                                        3-99      7-835
       Diamond.                                                                                          2-05                                                         1335
       Fine Marble,                                                                                                                                                     9-30      7*320
                                                                                                         10-76                                                                   3-400
       Common Glass,                                                                                                                                                      7-88    2-710
                                                                                                       20-21                                                            2-03      2-579
       Alabaster,                                                                                                                                                       0-89      1-873
       Dry Ivor)-,                                                                            17 552                                                                              1-823
       Dry Boxwood,                                                                                                                                                       9-54    1-201
       Sea Water,                                                                             I.". 21-07
                                                                                                                                                                          9-51    1-035
       Common Water,                                                                                     14-11                                                          9-23      1-000
       Red Wine,                                                                                                                                                        9-20
       Proof Spirits,                                                                         7          5-20                                                           8-62        '993
       Pure Spirits,                                                                                                                                                    8-02
       /Ether,                                                                                111 IM-4IS                                                                            '931
       Cork,                                                                                  1t) 5-83                                                                 746
       Air,                                                                                                                                                                         866
                                                                                              10 20-77                                                                    2-21      '720
                                                                                                                                                                        0-009       '240
                                                                                              111 20-51
                                                                                                                                                                                    '001
                                                                                              10 13-18
                                                                                              10 U-42
                                                                                              0 27 9 !>
                                                                                                         19-73

                                                                                                         3-27

                                                                                                         14-00

                                                                                                         12-77

                                                                                                         0-25
                                     JAMES FERGUSON.

   Take away the decimal points from the numbers in the right
hand column, and reckon them to be whole numbers ; and they
will show how many Avoirdupois ounces are contained in a
cubic foot of each of the above bodies in the Table." (Tables
and Tracts, p. 237; MS. "Common Place Book," p. 236, Col.
Lib. Edin.)

       A Table op thk different Velocities
               and Forces of the Winds.

Velocity of     Perpendi
the Wind.       cular force

Miles     Feet      on one   Common appellations of
   in   in one  foot Area,      the forces of Winds.
       Second.  in Pounds
 one
Hour.              Avoir

                   dupois.

1      1-47     '005         Xot perceptible.

2      293      '020         Just perceptible.
3      4- 40    '044

4      5- 87    '079         [ Gentle pleasant Wind.
ft              '112
       733

10     14-67    '492         Pleasant brisk Gale.
15     22-00
                1-107 |
       29-33
20     36-67    1-968        1 Very brisk.
25              3- 075

30     44-00    4- 428         High Winds.
35     51-33    6- 027
                             |

40     58-67    7- 872       | Very high.
45     6600     9963

50     73-33 12-300          A storm or tempest.
                             A great storm.
60     88-00    17-712       A hurricane.

80     117-33 31-488         A hurricane that tears up

100    146-70 49200          trees, and carries build

                             ings, &c., before it.

The force of the Wind is as the square of its velocity.

  IThat the Force of the Wind is as the square of its velocity,

have often proved by experiments made on my Whirling Table.
                                                           James Ferguson.

                                                                               London, 1766."
    (Tables and Tracts, p. 238 ; MS. " Common Place Book," Col.
Lib. Edin., p. 74).

  " On Pumps, and Directions for Pump Makers. --The fol
3.32 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

lowing paper on Pumps, &c, appears to have been partly writ

ten in 1765, but not completed until near the end of 1766.
   " In all pumps," says Ferguson, " the pressure of the column

of water, or its weight felt by the working power, when raised

to any given height above the surface of the well, is in propor

tion to the height of the column, considered throughout, as if

it were equal in diameter to that part of the bore in which the

piston or bucket works.

The advantage or power gained by the handle of the pump

is

                                   it

                                                                                   is,

                                                                                      it

                                                                                                                  is
is the same as in the common lever ; that                           as great as the

length from the axis of the handle to its end where the power

applied, exceeds the length of the other part of the handle,

from the axis on which turns to the pump-rod wherein

fixed, for lifting the piston and water.

In the making of pumps, the diameter of the bore where the

bucket works should be proportioned to the height which the

pump raises the water above the surface of the well, so that

a man of ordinary strength might work all pumps equally easy,

let their heights be what they may. The annexed Table shows

1                   Table for Pump-makers.

 Height of theA          Diameter of the  Water discharg
pumj> above the                           ed in a minute
 surtace of the          Kore where the
                          Piston works.    in Gallons and
       Well.                                     Pints.

             Feet.       Inches.          Gsl.   Pints.2. 6. 7. 6.
                                                    4.
               10         693              81.         7. 1.
               15          5-65            54.      3.
              20          490              40.      4.
               25          438             32.      3.
              30           4-00            27.      5.
              35           370             23.      4.
              40           347             20.
               45          3-26             18.        2. 7. 5.
               50          310              16.
               55                           14.
               60           2-95            13.
               65                           12.
               70          2-83             11.
               75          271              10.
               85                           10.
                            2-62

                           253
                           244

                                          James Ferguson.
                                                   London, Nor. 1766
JAMES FERGUSON.                                                           333

how this may be done, and what quantities of water may be
raised in a minute by one man, supposing the handle of the
pump to be a lever increasing the power five times.

   N.B. -- In my book of Lectures, pag. 75, last paragraph, and

line 3 of column 1, in pag. 76 for bucket, read surface of the
water in the well.

    1st, Find the giveu height of pump, in the first column of
the Table; and against it in the second column, you have the
diameter which the bore must be of in inches and hundredth

parts of an inch.

   2d, In the third column, you have the quantity of water in

English gallons and pints, that a man of common strength can
raise to that height in a minute.

    With respect to the power required to work the pump, or
the quantity of water discharged thereby, it matters not what
the diameter of the bore be in any other part than that where
in the piston or bucket works." (" Tables and Tracts." Lond.,

 1767, pp. 230--232).

   Model of Blakey's Engine. --According to one of our notes,

we find that in the ye:ir 1766, Mr. Blakey, the inventor of an
" Engine for Raising Water," waited on Ferguson with a work-

ing model of his engine, and set it in motion before him --the
engine was not perfected ; but such as it was, Ferguson seems

to have been pleased with its action, and obtained leave from
its inventor to make a model of it to be shown in his lectures
---a model appears to have been accordingly made in the same

year. In his MS. " Common Place Book," Ferguson gives a

lengthened description of this engine, accompanied with a large
drawing in Indian ink. Two years after making his model he
appears to have got tired of waiting for Blakey perfecting his

engine, as we find at the conclusion of his description, dated

1 768, a note as follows :--

" Mr. Blakey has been upwards of two years about this Simple Machine,
IIf Iand has never yet finished one to work.
                                                  live till he does, shall give
                                                        Jam us Ferguson.
an account of it on the following page.

   See MS. " Common Place   Book,"       pp. 80,  81 ;     Nov. 16th, 1768."
Exercises, pp. 107 -- 109.                              and " Select Mechanical

Ferguson died in 1776 --just eight years after the date of
334 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

this note -- and    as there is no second  "account   of it  on the fol
lowing page "     of his " Common Place    Book," it
                                                      is to  be inferred

that Blakey never perfected his engine, at least in Ferguson's

time.

   Ferguson removes from Mortimer Street. -- Sometime

during the year 1766, Ferguson removed from Mortimer Street,
Cavendish Square, to No. 4 Bolt Court, Fleet Street, which
proved his Ultima Dumas. (See date 1776).

   On the Tides. -- We have two papers, in the autograph of

Ferguson, on the Tides. The following is a copy of the most

interesting one :--
   " On the Cause of the Ebbing and Flowing of the Sea at the

same time on Opposite sides of the Earth.
   The reason why the tides rise on the side of the Earth which

is at any time turned towards the Moon, is plain to every one ;
because her attraction must occasion a swelling of the waters
toward her on that side ; but the cause of so great a swell, at
the same time, on the opposite side of the Earth, which is then
turned away from the Moon, has been very hard to account for ;
because the rising of the tide there is in a direction quite con
trary to the attraction of the Moon. But this difficulty is im
mediately removed, when we consider, that all bodies moving
in circles have a centrifugal force, or constant tendency to fly
off from the centres of the circles they describe ; and this cen
trifugal force is always in proportion to the distance of the
body from the centre of its orbit, and the velocity with which
it moves therein ; when the body is large, the side of it which
is farthest from the centre of its orbit will have a greater degree
of centrifugal force than the centre of the body has ; and the
side of it which is nearest the centre of its orbit will have a less

degree of centrifugal force than its centre has.
    As the Moon goes round the Earth every month in her orbit,

the Earth also goes round an orbit every month, which is as
 much less than the quantity of matter in the Earth, which is
 40 times. For, by the laws of nature, when a small body moves
round a great one, in free and open space, both these bodies
 must move round the common centre of gravity between them.

     The Moon's mean distance from the Earth's centre is 240,000
JAMES FERGUSON.  333

English miles : divide therefore this distance by 40, the differ
ence between the quantity of matter in the Earth and Moon,
and the quotient will be 6*000 miles, which is the distance of
the common centre of gravity (between the Earth and Moon)
from the centre of the Earth.

   Now, as the Earth and Moon move round the common centre

of gravity between them, once every month, 'tis plain, that
whilst the Moon moves round her orbit, at 240,000 miles from
the Earth's centre, the centre of the Earth describes a circle of

6000 miles radius, round the centre of gravity between the
Earth and the Moon, the Moon's attraction balancing the cen

trifugal force of the Earth's at its centre.
   The diameter of the Earth is 8000 miles, in round numbers,

and consequently its semi-diameter is 4000 ; so that the side of
the Earth, which is at any time turned toward the Moon, is

4000 miles nearer the common centre of gravity between the
Earth and Moon than the Earth's centre is; and the side of
the Earth which is then farthest from the Moon, is 4000 miles

farther from the centre of gravity between the Earth and Moon
than the Earth's centre is at that time.

    Therefore, the radius of the circle described by the parts of
the Earth which come about toward the Moon, by the Earth's
diurnal motion, is 2000 miles ; the radius of the circle described

by the Earth's centre is 6000 ; and the radius of the circle de
scribed by those parts of the Earth which, in revolving on its
axis, are furthest from the Moon, is 10,000 miles.

   The centrifugal forces of the different parts of the Earth
being directly as their distances from the above-mentioned
common centre of gravity, round which both the Earth and

Moon move, these forces may be expressed by 2000 for the side
of the Earth nearest the Moon, by 6000 for the Earth's centre,
and by 10,000 for the side of the Earth which is farthest from
the Moon. But the Earth's attraction is greatest on the side of
the Earth next her, where the centrifugal force or tendency to
My off from the common centre of gravity (and consequently,
from the Moon) is least ; and therefore, the tides must rise on
the side of the Earth which is nearest the Moon, by the excess
of the Moon's attraction.

   As her attraction balances the centrifugal force at the Earth's
centre, 'tis plain that the centrifugal force of the side of the
336 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Earth which is farthest from the Moon, is greater than her
attraction ; and therefore, the tides will rise as high upon that

side from the Moon, by the excess of the centrifugal force, as

they rise on the side next her by the excess of her attraction.
   And as the Earth is in constant motion on its axis, so as that

any given meridian revolves from the Moon to the Moon again
in 24 hours, o(H minutes, each place will come to the two emi

nences of water, under and opposite to the Moon, in 24 hours,

50i minutes, or have two tides of Hood and two of ebb in that

time. For, as much as the waters rise above the common level

of the surface of the sea, under and opposite to the Moon, so
much they must fall below that level half way between the

highest places ; or at 90 degrees from them.

   On these principles, it is equally easy to account for the ris
ing of the tides, at the same time, on both sides of the Earth ;

and this rising is made evident to sight in my Lecture on the

central forces ; and the principles on which it depends are

made obvious to the understandings of all observers."
                                                           James Ferguson.

                                                                         London, Se.p. ith, 1760.

   See also Tables and Tracts, pp. 303 --309.

    We may here observe, that Ferguson, in this paper, gives 40
as the number of times that the solid contents of the Earth ex

ceed that of the Moon. This is an error ; for the mass of the

Earth is 49 times the mass of the Moon.

   All globular bodies are to each other as the cubes of their
diameters. The Earth is 7,912 miles in diameter, the Moon 2,160

mdes; therefore, accordmg to the rule, ^xjfSxiT*=noo77iw*wb
and 495289174528 -^ 10077696000 = 49} times nearly. Also,
he makes the distance of the common centre of gravity between

the Earth and Moon 6000 miles from the Earth's centre, whereas

the distance is only 4800 miles; but assuming the 40 and the
240,000 to be correct, 6000 miles would not be the result. Let
a = 240,000, x = distance of the centre of gravity from the

Earth's centre. Now, from the principles of the lever, an

-equilibrium can only take       place when  mass of the Earth :
                                  when
Moon's mass : : a --x : x, that                --x x, from which
          is,                                                                                                               If we

                     4"T

                                   \
                                             is,

                                                                             1
                                                                               :

                                                  ^
                                                                                        ::
                                                                         a
                                                                                                          :

                                                                                         j

                                                                                                                        ).
we find x  = 5853? miles (240000-41 = 5853?

apply the same rule to the true mass 49, then the 49 becomes
           240,000 -:- 50 = 4800 miles, the distance of the com
jC, that
            JAMES FERGUSON.                                     337

inon centre of gravity from the Earth's centre, as given above.
This centre of gravity is therefore 844 miles distant from the

surface of the Earth-- in a straight line always, with the centre

of the Moon.

   Barometer Table. --The following Table by Ferguson, is
copied from the original, in our collection. It appears to have
been computed and written about the end of the year 1766 :--

                               " A Table,

Showing the height to which a Barometer must be raised above
the plane surface of the Earth, in order that the Mercury may

stand at any given height in the Tube, --this is shown in the

first part of the Table. The second part shows at what height
the Mercury will stand in the Tube, when the Barometer is
raised to any given height above the Earth's plane surface.

            Part I.              Part II.

  Height    Height of the Baro     Height of the      Height
   of the   meter in feet above
 Mercury                              Barometer        of the
iu inches.   the Earth's plane   above the Earth.    Mercury
                                                    in inches.
                      surface.

30-000      Feet 0               Feet 0             30-00

29-000               915                  1000      28-91
28-000                                   2000       27-86
                    1862                 3000       26-85
27-000             2844                  4000       25-87
26-000             3863                  5000       24-93
                   4922                             24-67
25-000           10947           Miles 1            20-29

20-000            18715                          2  16-68
                 29662                              1372
15-000          48378                            3
                91831                               11-28
10-000         110547                            4
               129262                                424
  5-000        153120                            5
  1-000       216480                                   1-60
              279840                           10
 05                                          20       0-95
                                               25     0-23
 0-25                                        30       0-08
 o-i                                         40
 o-ooi
 o-ooo

By the first part of this Table, and a common Barometer or
Weather Glass, the perpendicular height of a hill above the plane

surface of the Earth may be nearly found. Thus, suppose the

Mercury was observed to stand at 30 inches in the Tube when

                                    2u
338 EXTENDED MEMOIH OFit,

at the foot of the hill, and at 27 inches when carried up to the;
top : against this sinking of three inches, you have 2844 feetit
(or 948 yards) for the perpendicular height of the hill. The
second part is too plain to need any description or example.if
                                         it
                                                           James Ferguson.
    is
                                                                               London, 1766."
It  (See also MS. " Common Place Book,'' Col. Lib. Edin., p. 82 ;: isis
" Tables and Tracts," pp. 294, 295 ; and " Select Mechanical
Exercises," p. 121, for a more extended and complete Table.;

                                                     1767.a

   Bath and Bristol Lectures. -- Ferguson, in the beginning

of January, 1707, left London for Bath and Bristol to deliver
several Courses of Philosophical Lectures, in these cities, illus
trated by his now very extensive apparatus. In the Bath
Chronicle (deposited in the British Museum), for January, Feb
ruary, and March, 1 767, are the following advertisements: --

                                                       "Bath, Jan». 2-2d, 1767.
   " Mr. Ferguson gives notice that his Second Course of Lectures on
Experimental Philosophy and Astronomy, will begin this day, precisely
at Twelve o'clock at the Lamb Inn, in Stall Stuekt, and be continued

every day afterward (Sundays excepted), at the same hour, till the whole be
finished. Subscribers pay a Guinea each for the whole course, which consists
of Twelve Lectures. Non-subscribers pay Half-a-Crown each for every
Lecture they attend.

   If those who sometime ago proposed to subscribe for an Evening Course,

still intend to do they are desired to till up the subscription at the Lamb
Inn by Saturday next at Twelve o'clock for they delay any longer,
Mr. Ferguson must then begin to pack up his apparatus gradually, as he has
done with its different parts, in order to send to Loudon when the present
Course over.

    N.B. -- No Gold will be changed at the Lecture Room."
                                           Pope's "Bath Chronicle, Jan. 22d, 1767."

            doubtful whether the parties, to whom allusion made
in the foregoing advertisement, subscribed for an Evening
Course but to the same paper he sent the following advertise
ment

                                                          " Bath, February 9th, 1767.
   "For the last time during the present Season, Mr. Ferguson will

begin Lecture on the Orrery at the Lamu Inn, in Stall Street, at

 Six o'clock this evening; in which all Vicissitudes of Seasons and the
 Times, Causes, and Return of all the Eclipsks of the Sun and Moon will
JAMES FERGUSON.  339

be explained and demonstrated on the principles of Nature, together with
the Phenomena of Saturn's Ring. The Year of our Saviour's Cruci
fixion will be astronomically ascertained, and the Darkness at the Time
of the Crucifixion proved to have been out of the Common Course of
Nature.

            Each Non Subscriber who attends this Lecture is to pay Hulf-a-
Crown ; and no Gold will be changed at the Lectiue Room."

                                         Pope's Bath Chronicle, February 12th, 1767.

    The foregoing advertisement, of date February 9th, was not
inserted into the Bath Chronicle until the 12th -- this he notices
in his next advertisement in the same newspaper, as follows :

                                                        "Bath, February 19th, 1767.
   "Mr. Ferguson gives notice that he will return to this City, aud read a
Course of Lectures ou Experimental Philosophy and Astronomy, any
Time before the Beginning of April next, if Fifty Persons will subscribe a
Guinea each for the same at Mr. Leak's, Mr. Frederick's, or Mr. Taylor's,

Booksellers in Bath.

   £4f The advertisement which appeared in last Thursday's Paper, con

cerning his reading a Lecture that Evening, was put in by mistake ; for all
his Machinery was packed up before that Time, and he was then in Bristol."

   In order to keep his name prominently before the public,

before returning to Bath to deliver another Course of Lectures,
he advertised two of his works in the Bath newspaper, as fol
lows :

                            " Just Published, by Mr. Ferguson.
    1st, Lectures on Select Subjects in Mechanics, Hydrostatics,

Pnkumatics, and Optics, with the Use of the Globes; The Art of Dial

ling, and the Calculations of the Mean Times of New and Full Moons
and Eclipses, illustrated with 23 Copperplates of the author's Machinery
and Diagrams. Price 12s. 6d. in Boards, Quarto.

   2d, Astronomy explained upon Sir Isaac Newton's Principles, and

made easy to those who have not studied Mathematics, to which are added
-- The method of finding the Distances of all the Planets from the Sun,
by the Transit of Venus, over the Sun's Disk in the year 1761. These
Distances deduced from Observations of that Transit, and an account of Mr.
 Horrox's Observations of the Transit of the year 1639, Illustrated with 18
large Copper Plates; Price in Boards 16s. 6d. Quarto."

    Ferguson was in Bristol from about 12th February until
about the beginning of April, 1767, delivering Courses of Lec
tures there to considerable audiences; but the Bristol news
papers for this period we have been unable to find. The fol
lowing is his advertisement in the Bath Chronicle :
340 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

                                                           " Bath, March 26fA, 1767.
   " Mr. Ferguson, F.R.S., will return to this City in the beginning of April
this year, and read a Course of Twelve Lectures on Experimental
Philosophy and Astronomy, if fifty Persons will subscribe a Guinea each

for the same.

   The principal subjects will be as follows :--To show how human strength
may be assisted by art, and how to construct Machines and Engines for that
purpose. --To compute the Degree of Powers gained by any Machine or
Engine already constructed ; To show the best methods of making Cranes,
Wheel Carriages, and Mills for Grinding Corn and Sawing Timber ; all which
will be exemplified by a great variety of Models. To demonstrate the sur
prising properties of water, by Hydrostatic Machines, and of Air, by the
Air-Pump : To construct Engines for raising Water to Gentlemen's
seats above the Level of the Springs or Rivers. To explain the Laws by
which the Deity Regulates and Governs all the Motions of the Planet
ary System : To represent the Motions of the Planets and the Comets
by Machinery: To show the Causes of the different Seasons, the Motions
and Phases of the Moon, The Harvest Moon, The Tides, and all the
Eclipses of the Sun and Moon, by means of an Orrery.

  IfN.B. -- the Subscription should not be compleat by next Tuesday, the

31st March, Mr. Ferguson will be under the necessity of having his appara
tus sent to London, its he has been invited by many gentlemen to give a
Course of Lectures there, and will be obliged to go to Liverpool the latter
end of April for the same purpose."

   It is probable that this advertisement did not succeed, for in

about a fortnight afterwards we find him again advertising in
the Bath Chronicle, proposing to deliver a Course of Lectures
in Bath, if only Twenty-five subscribe a Guinea each. The
advertisement is as follows :

                                                       "Bath. April \(ith, 1767.
   "Mr. Ferguson gives notice that if Twenty-five Persons will sub
scribe a Guinea each, at Mr. Leak's, or Mr. Frederick's, Booksellers in
this City, by Tuesday next, the 21st Inst., for a Course of Lectures on
Experimental Philosophy and Astronomy; he will begin the first Lec
 ture of that Course on Wednesday the 29th Inst, at Twelve o'clock at
the Lamb Inn, in Stall Street, and continue to read every following day
(Sunday excepted) at the same Hour till the Course be finished, unless the
Company appoint a more convenient Hour for their attendance. But if the

subscription be not full by the 21st Inst., he must then begin to pack up his
apparatus in order to send it to London."

   It is likely that the Twenty-five subscribers were obtained,

and that he commenced his mid-day lectures on April 21st.
                           JAMES FERGUSON.                                     341

Resolving to have evening lectures, he sent the following

advertisement to the Bath Chronicle :

                                                              " Bath, April 23d, 1767.
   " Mr. Ferguson will begin a Lecture on the Orrery to morrow at

Seven o'clock, in the Evening, at the Lamb Inn, in Stall Street; and

will continue to read at the same Hour, on Saturday, Monday, and Tues
day next on that Grand Machine.157 These four Lectures will be on the
Solar System, the Seasons, --the Motions and Phases of the Moon, and

the Doctrine of Eclipses.

   Subscribers are to pay eight Shillings each, for attending these Lectures                  ;

non-subscribers, Half-a-Crown for each Lecture they attend.
             (N.B. -- No Gold will be changed at the Lecture-Room).''

It will bo recollected that Ferguson, at the conclusion of his

advertisement of March 26th, mentions that he had to be in

London and Liverpool before the end of April ; since these four
lectures would keep him in Bath until at least April 28th, it is

likely that he commenced his London Course in May, as he
did not get to Liverpool until near the end of that month.

He left Bath for London on or about May 1st, 1767. Shortly

after his arrival, he began to deliver a Course of Lectures, and
at intervals revised the proof sheets of his Supplement to " Lec

tures on Select Subjects," an                         octavo volume of         68 pages, con
taining 13 large copperplate                                                   one edition of
                                                      engravings --only

the Supplement was published, as it was afterwards appended

to Lectures on Select Subjects. We have a copy of the ori

ginal edition, now difficult to be had.                        The following is copy of
the title-page :--

" A Supplement to Mr. Ferguson's Book of Lectures on Mechanics,

Hydrostatics, Pneumatics, and Optics, with the Use of the Globes,
and the Art of Dialling ; containing Thirteen Copperplates, with
descriptions of the Machinery, which he has added to his Apparatus,
since that Book was printed. By James Ferguson, F.R.S. Lon-

257 This Grand Machine probably refers to the new Orrery which he aml Ken
neth M'Culloch finished making in the previous year (1766). At Ferguson's
sale in March, 1777, this orrery appears to have been bought by Thomas Hawys,
Esq., who died in 180". The orrery was again put up lor sale in 1807. In the
"Catalogue of the Collection of Mathematical and Philosophical Instruments,
                 of Thomas Hawys, Esq.,                        Charter House
the property     public auction, by Messrs.           late ot  and Lochee, at  Square, deceased,
to be sold by                                                                  their Great Room,
                                                       King

No. 38     King  finSdtreaett,pagCeov5e,nt"  Garden,   on Thursday,   October 13th, 1807, at  12
o'clock,"                                    Lot 68,  A large Orrery  with glast shade, made  by
             we
Mr. Ferguson." Under date March 27th, 1760, the reader will find copy of a
letter from Ferguson to Mr. Hawys.
342 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

don : Printed for A. Millar, and sold by T. Cadell, opposite Cath
erine Street, in the Strand, mdcci.xvii."

   Ferguson in Liverpool and in Scotland. -- He appears to

have been in Liverpool delivering a Course of Lectures, from
about May 20th until the middle of June, again enjoying

the company and hospitality of his philosophical friend, Captain
Hutchinson, Dock-master. After finishing a Course of Lectures

on Experimental Philosophy and Astronomy, he went to Scot

land either on business, or for recreation. It is not known what
districts he visited -- probably his native district, where still

remained some relatives and the friends of his early years. His

parents had been long removed from the scene ; but his elder
brother, John, and four of his sisters, were still alive; also, the

Rev. Mr. Cooper, of Glass, and Mr. James Glashan, his old and

kind-hearted master and enthusiastic admirer. Probably Alex
ander Cantley might still be found, busy with his Geometry

and Sun-Dial.s.

   It is certain that Ferguson was in Edinburgh in 17G7, and

called on the late Mr. Thomas Reid, Watch and Clock Maker
in that city, who, in his " Treatise on Horology," alludes to the
visit, as follows :--

    " The late James Ferguson, who was eminent as a writer and

a lecturer on Natural Philosophy, being in Edinburgh about the

year 1767, was so obliging as to communicate to us a descrip
tion of the wheels, pinions, and endless screws, in a train of
wheel-work to produce a mean synodical revolution of the Moon,

mentioning that they were (as he supposed), computed and in
vented by Mudge, but at that time, no account of them had

been published, nor was till long afterwards. The effect of

this train makes the revolution equal to 29 days 12 hours 44

minutes and 3 seconds." Mr. Reid adds, " It is perhaps as in

genious a mechanical contrivance as can well be imagined, and
was executed and put to a clock by Mudge himself, for his
sincere noble friend and patron, his Excellency the late Count
Bruhl," &c.15s ("Treatise on Clock and Watch Making, by

25s Had a public reward been offered for the most complicated and round-about
method for producing, by means of wheel-work, a mean synodic revolution of
the Moon, this plan by Mudge would undoubtedly havo gained                      for a
more needlessly complicated train of wheels, for such a purpose,  the  prize,  saw --
                                                                  we   never

not to mention the difficulty of its execution. This train-work by Mudge con
sists of 6 wheels, 4 pinions, and 2 endless screws, -^-viz. four wheels of 45 teeth
each, one wdieel of 60, and one of 42 teeth, with pinions of 8, 8, 19, and 3, and
                                               JAMES FERGUSON.                                                        343

Thomas Reid," 4th Edit., 1849, p. 70 ; also, MS. " Common Place

Book," pp. 86 and 264, Col. Lib. Edia)
   Whilst in Edinburgh, Ferguson was much in the company of

Dr. Buchan (afterwards celebrated for his work, " Domestic
Medicine and Dr. Lind, an eminent Physician and ingenious
experimental Electrician.
          is
   "Tables and Tracts" --Published. -- During Ferguson's"),

absence from London, his " Tables and Tracts " were published.;x
This an octavo volume of 320 pages, illustrated with threea is
            is in is
copperplate engravings.
    Ferguson had from his earliest years taken notes of every

thing interesting, curious, and useful, and this work entitled
" Tables and Tracts," the result of part of his researches and
notanda. The work consists of 75 papers, on a great variety of
subjects and was perhaps the most easily got-up of all his

works. There have been several editions of published, --viz.

1st Edit., 1767.-- 2d Edit., 1771.-- 3d Edit., 1777, &c. The

annexed copy of the title-page --

       " Tables and Tracts relative to several Arts and Sciences. By
      .lames Ferguson, F.R.S. London Printed for A. Millar and T.
       Cadell, the Strand, m.dcc.lxvii. Price os."
                                                                    ::

                                                                                         it

endless screws. In his MS. "Common Place Book," where Mudgc's Lunar
'2
      IIwheel-work described and illustrated by .a pen and ink plan of the wheels, he

say"s, have ventured to make little alteration in this (Mudge's) train, by mak

ing the fixed pinion have only 11 leaves (instead of 19), and the wheel                                           2H  to have

only 26 teeth (instead of 45), and by keeping to all the rest of Mr. Mudge's num
bers, find makes the mean lunation to consist of 29 12 44 m. s. 53"',
          it                                                                           is             p. h.
                      7                                                                   a d.
which differs only thirds of a second of time from Mndge's mean lunation num-
oers; and consequently will differ but one day therefrom in 740571 lunations, or
59875 Julian
   Ferguson's  years."                                 Place  Book  "  (Col.  Lib.  Edin.       x ),         86.
               MS. "Common
tftfl xj|H tf,No train can be found so simple and accurate as that derived from the
fraction              = tV H t¥r or H                                  xWr or ^                              = 29  d.
                                                                                                                               h.
a                                                             is x                                                    12
                               ,
                                   a                                       years ago in         one of our astrono
                                                                                                -- 15 turns round in
                              *                                            Ux^x^1,-,
44 m. 2'88096s.                         train  we used above 40
mical machines.                     Taking     this last train, -- viz.
day of 24 hours, and drives wheel 58, which has made fast to wheel 22, which,
                                                                                                it

in its turn drives wheel 65, to which                               made fast wheel 53, which drives wheel

137 once round in 29 5305889 days, or 29 12 44 m. 2'88s. (error in 100 d.     h.

years, about 27 seconds too much). The annexed cut                                              sectional view of the

arrangement of the wheel-work of this very simplo aud accurate lunation train.
See also note 142.
344  EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

    (The greater portion of this work was republished in 1823,
in Brewster's Ferguson's Essays).

     Ferguson's Catalogue of Apparatus, and Terms for
                               Reading Lectures.

   Ferguson appends to " Tables and Tracts," (1767) a catalogue
of his apparatus for illustrating and .demonstrating his Course
of Lectures, and his Terms for reading them in London, and

within an hundred miles thereof, of which the following is a

copy :--
   " A List of the Apparatus on which Mr. Ferguson reads his

Course of Twelve Lectures on Mechanics, Hydrostatics, Hy

draulics, Pneumatics, Dialling, and Astronomy.

    The numbers relate to the Lectures read on the machinery

to which they are prefixed.

                                             L

   Simple machines for demonstrating the powers of the lever,
the wheel and axle, the pullies, the inclined plane, the wedge
and the screw.

   A compound engine in which all these simple machines work

together.

  A working model of the great crane at Bristol, which is

reckoned to be the best crane in Europe.

  A working model of a crane that has four different powers,

to be adapted to the different weights intended to be raised ;
invented by Mr. Ferguson.

   A Pyrometer that makes the expansion of metals by heat

visible to the 90-thousandth part of an inch ; so as to be seen
by the bare eye at two feet distance from the machine.

                        II

    Simple machines for showing the centre of gravity of bodies,
and how far a tower may incline without danger of fa]ling.

   A doable cone that seemingly rolls up-hill, whilst it is actu

ally descending.

   A machine made in the figure of a human creature, that

tumbles backward by continually oversetting the centre of

gravity.
    Models of wheel carriages; some with broad wheels, others
          JAMES FERGUSON.                       345

with narrow ; some with large wheels, and others with small ;

for proving experimentally which sort is best.

   A machine for showing what degree of power is sufficient to

draw a loaded cart or waggon up-hill ; when the quantity of

weight to be drawn up, and the angle of the hill's height are

known.

  A machine for diminishing friction ; and showing that the

friction is not in proportion to the quantity of the surface that

either rubs or rolls ; but in proportion to the weight with which

the machine is loaded.                  invented by Mr. Verrier>

  A model of a most curious Silk-reel,

near Wrington, in Somersetshire.

A large working model of a Water-mill for sawing timber.
A model of a Hand-mill for grinding corn.
A model of a Water-mill for winnowing and grinding corn,

drawing up the sacks, and boidting the flour.

   A model of Dr. Barker's Water-mill (for grinding corn), in
which mill there is neither wheel nor trundle.

  A machine for demonstrating that the power of the wind, on

windmill sails, is as the square of the velocity of the wind.

  A model of the engine by which the piles were driven for a

foundation to the piers of Westminster bridge.

          III.

   A machine for showing that fluids weigh as much in tVieir

own elements as they do in air.

   A machine for showing that, on equal bottoms, the pressure

of fluids is in proportion to their perpendicular heights; let

their quantities be ever so great or ever so small.

   Machines for showing that fluids press equally and in all

manner of directions.

  A machine for showing how an ounce of water in a tube may

be made to raise and support sixteen pound weight of lead.

   A machine for showing that, at equal heights, the smallest
quantity of water whatever will balance the greatest quantity
whatever, if the columns join at bottom.

   A machine for showing how solid lead may bo made to swim

in water, and the lightest wood to sink in water.

    Machines for showing and demonstrating the hydrostatical

paradox.  2x
346 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

  A machine for demonstrating that the weight of the quantity

of water displaced by a ship is equal to the whole weight of the
ship and cargo.

   Machines for showing the working of syphons, and the Tan
talus' cup.

  A large machine for showing the cause and explaining the

phenomena of ebbing and flowing wells, and of intermitting
and reciprocating springs.

                                        IV.

    Machines for showing that when solid bodies are immersed
and suspended in fluids, the solid loses as much of its weight as
its bulk of the fluid weighs ; and that the weight lost by the
solid is imparted to the fluid.

  A hydrostatic balance, for showing the specific gravities of

bodies, and detecting counterfeit gold or silver.

   A working model of Archimedes spiral pump.

    Glass models for showing the structure and operations of
sucking, forcing, and lifting pumps.

   A working model of an engine for extinguishing fire.
   A working model of a quadruple Pump-mill for raising water

by means of water turning a wheel.

   A working model of the Persian wheel for raising water.
   A model of the great hydraulic engine under London bridge;

that goes by the tides, and raises water by forcing pumps.

             V and VI.

An Air-pump, with a great apparatus to it for experiments,

showing the weight and spring of the air.
A Wind-gun.
             VII.

   A large armillary sphere, for showing the apparent motion.-;

of the Sun and Moon, with the times of their rising and setting,
in all latitudes, and on all the days of the year.

  A wooden model of an astronomical clock, showing the appa

rent motions and times of rising and setting of the Sun, Moon,
and Stars, with the age and phases of the Moon, at all times.

   Another model of a clock, for showing the apparent motions
of the Sun and Stars, with the times of their rising and setting,

and the equation of natural days.
JAMES FERGUSON.  347

   A simple machine, by which all the principles of dialling arc

made evident to sight.
   Pardie's universal dial, for finding a meridian line, and show

ing the true solar time of the day.
   Three dials of different kinds joined together; on all of

which, the time of the day is shown by the shadow of one stile.

   A collection of nine dials, all in one portable instrument,

showing the time of the day in all latitudes ; and all the places
of the Earth where it is day, and where it is night, at any time
when the Sun shines on the dial ; and all the places of the
Earth to which the Sun is rising, and to which it is setting at

that time.

   An universal dial in the form of a plain cross.
   An instrument for finding the true distances of all the Fore

noon and Afternoon hours from XII, on horizontal and vertical

dials, for all latitudes. And also for finding the hour of the
day, and the variation of the compass, at any place ; together
with the Sun's declination, azimuth, amplitude, and time of ris

ing and setting, in any given latitude.

                                    VIII.

   A whirling table, for explaining and demonstrating the laws
by which the planets move, and are retained in their orbits :

that the Sun and all the planets move round their common
centre of gravity : that the Earth and Moon move round their
common centre of gravity once every month : that the Earth

moves round the Sun, in common with the rest of the planets,
and turns round its own axis : that the power of gravity di

minishes in proportion as the square of the distance from the
attracting body increases : that a double velocity in any orbit

would require .a quadruple power of gravity to retain the body
in that orbit : that the squares of the periodical times in which

the planets move round the Sun are in proportion to the cubes

of their distances from the Sun. A plain experimental demon

stration of the doctrine of the tides ; and the cause of their ris

ing equally high at the same time, on opposite sides of the Earth.

                       IX, X, XI, and XII.
A machine for showing the motions of comets.
An Orrery, showing the real motions of the planets round
348 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

the Sun ; the apparent stations, direct and retrograde motions
of Mercury and Venus, as seen from the Earth : the different
lengths of days and nights, and all the vicissitudes of seasons,
arising from the diurnal and annual motions of the Earth : the
motions and various phases of the Moon : the Harvest-moon: the
tides : the causes, times, and returns of all the eclipses of the
Sun and Moon : the eclipses of Jupiter's satellites, and the phe
nomena of Saturn's ring.

   In London, any number of persons, not less than twenty, who
will subscribe one Guinea each, may have a course of twelve

Lectures read on the above-mentioned Apparatus, provided
they agree to have at least three Lectures a-week ; in which
they may appoint the days and hours that are most convenient
for themselves.

    Within ten miles of London, any number, not less than thirty,
may have a course ; each subscriber paying one Guinea And

    Within an hundred miles of London, any number of sub
scribers, not less than sixty, may have a course ; each paying as
above." (" Tables and Tracts." Lond., 1767, pp. 318--328).

   It will thus be seen that Ferguson had upwards of fifty pieces
of apparatus to illustrate his course of Twelve Lectures. This is

the earliest Catalogue of his apparatus we have been able to find.

   Astronomical Clock. --Sometime during this year, Fergu
son invented and made the Dial- works of a new Astronomical

Clock.

   In his MS. " Common Place Book," he gives a lengthened

description of the wheel-work of this Clock, accompanied by a
fine large sectional drawing in Indian ink, showing the positions
of its wheels and acting parts, as also a miniature plan of the
Dial-face ; annexed to which, written cross-ways on the page, is
the following :--

    " The Dial-work of a Clock, for showing the Phases of the
Moon, the motion of the Earth, the Vicissitudes of Seasons, the
Places of the Earth which are enlightened by the Sun at any
time of Inspection, with the lengths of Days and Nights at all

times of the year, and at all Places of the Earth. --James Fer

guson, 1767."
    MS. " Common Place Book," p. 93 (Col. Lib. Edin.)
   Of the wheel-work, we may note that the astronomical part
                                    JAMES FERGUSON.                                           349

of the Clock has five wheels and one very long pinion, -- that a
wheel turning round in 24 hours shifts forward a tooth daily, of

a large wheel of 365 ratchet teeth, thereby causing this wheel

to turn round on its axis in 365 days. A pin in the rim of this

wheel works a large terrestrial globe, giving it the proper posi

tions to a stationary Sun opposite its centre, in front of the

Dial This globe projects half way through a large circular
opening in the under part of the Dial-face ; and the pin in the

large wheel just mentioned operates on the machinery of the
globe, and causes it to show the Vicissitudes of the Seasons, and
the different lengths of Day and Night at all places of the Earth.

                                                     1768.

   The Young Gentleman and Lady's Astronomy Pub
lished. -- Our first note for 1768 refers to the March number
of the " Gentleman's Magazine " for that year, from which it

would appear that this very simple and celebrated work on
Astronomy was published before March, 1768. Of this work,
mauy editions have been published, both in this and other

countries. It is written in the form of a Dialogue between
"Neander" and "Eudosia," -- Ferguson being Neander, the
tutor ; his youthful pupil Miss Emblin, Eudosia.TM It is writ

ten in language so plain and simple, that " he who runs ma y

259 As here noticed, this work is in the form of u Dialogue; Neander, the
tutor; Eudosia (the youthful Miss Anne Emblin), the pupil, represented as sister
of Neander. It muy be here noted that Neander was a celebrated physician of
Germany in the 16th century (died in 1558). Eudosia was the daughter of
wLeoornktiu"Cs entthoeueSsophHisotmere,ricai,nd"  wife of   Theodosius the younger.       She wrote the
                                                  applying   his verses to the History  of Christ, (died

a.d. 460, aged 60).      one        of the daughters        of  " Eudosia  "  (Mrs.     Anne  Casborne)
   Being informed that
resided at New House, Packenham, Bury St. Edmunds, we took leave to address

a note to her, respectfully inquiring if she could furnish any interesting particu
lars respecting her mother, the Eudosia of Ferguson's Dialogues (afterwards the
wife of  Capel *Lof*ft,  "EsYqo.)u  In her courteous reply, of date July 1861, is the fol
lowing.                             are quite riglit in your conjecture that Anne Emblin,
Imy mother, the pupil of Ferguson, wax (the. first) wife of Capel Lofft; awl have
often heard from her sister, Martha Hatch, tJie wife of the Rev. George Avery
Hatch, Sector of St. Matthew and St. Peter, Chcapside, London, that my mother
/wnohheoifasmrsFpetyeotrh,eegenmuasp,snoudanb'po;Titulhhtabemut1te7,iUnt6fnl7risooiu--vngmeegaedrnss,mtdeeyu.dFna'edutreognrutm'sasdoyonGacrfneactoeohtthkuenenktrnn,,roaemwssCehiad,etpheewedinlayisneLFoaevtfrerhfgtmer,yuyCstyohitmoneyuo',sitnuhaiDjenm--riaeBlhbooaeg'lcdutaEemCuosednoouloytsrhntiea,eAnptFs'eutlrefrpeooeditrl
IStreet. She was a little younger than my father, who was born in Nov. 1752.

From the same authority, heard some years afterward'i that my mother delighted
to converse with Ferguson, and often went to stay with him, at which time, she was
in all her youth and beauty, and when King George the Third used to call her
350 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

read" and at once acquire a knowledge of the elements of As
tronomy. Madame Genlis remarks, " th is book is written with

so much clearness, that a child of ten yea rs old may under
stand   it perfectly from one end to  the other"     Editions of this
work                                  as follows  :-- 1st Edit, 1768.
       wore published in England,
--2d Edit, 1769.-- 3d Edit, 1772.-- 4th Edit, 1779.-- 5th Edit,

1790, &c. Our Edition is the seventh (1804). It is an octavo

volume of 182 pages, and embellished with 7 illustrative cop

perplate engravings. The following is copy of the title-page :--

" An Ensy Introduction to Astronomy for Young Gentlemen and
Ladies -- Describing The Figure, Motions, and Dimensions of the
Earth; The different Seasons; Gravity and Light ; The Solar Sys
tem; The Transit of Venus, and its Use in Astronomy; The Moon's
Motion and Phases; The Eclipses of the Sun and Moou; The Cause
of the Ebbing and Flowing of the Sea, &c. Bv James Ferguson,
F.B.S. London : Printed for A. Millar and T. Cadell, in the Strand.
mdcclxviii. Price 5s."

    We never saw the first edition of this work ; but a friend who
had mentions, that the title-page of the first edition was simply

as follows :--

"The Young Gentleman and Lady's Astronomy in Ten Dialogues.
By James Ferguson, F.R.S. Loudon : Printed for A. Millar and
T. Cadell, in the Strand, mdoclxviii. Price 5s."

The third edition we have seen, and its title-page and

that of all subsequent editions is the same. At the

I I Iend of the second Dialogue in this Astronomy, Eudosia
asks Neander -- " What shall          do?         fear  cannot

remember much of what you have told me this morning,
I Iso as to write it dawn" to which Neander replies, "Never

mind that, Eudosia, for believe shall publish these our
conversations, for tlte sake of other young ladies; many of
whom are, no doubt, willing to learn Astronomy, but have
nobody to teach them. And then you can have the whole to

I Ifgether in print." To this Eudosia replies, " you do, Sir,
  must insist upon your not mentioning my name." Neander

Iassures her that her " desire shall be complied with." Fergu

son, in a foot-note, adds, " Several years ago, had, the pleasu re

of instruct ing a young lady, who, for goodness of heart, acute-

' the fiovxr of Windsor.' She died on the S/A September, 1801, mjed about 43
years." Sec also uot«: 14, |> 13.
                                    JAMES FERGUSON.                         351

ness of judgment, and strong inclinations to learn Astro
nomy, answered exactly to the account here given of Eudosia."
(See conclusion of the second Dialogue of this Astronomy). 'Ku
As both our Neander and Eudosia have been dead for upwards
of half a century, Eudosia's name is now under no restriction,
and we have therefore given her name in this notice, and also
alluded to her in another part of this work.

  Electrical Orrery. --During this year, Ferguson appears

to have been employed in making Electrical Apparatus, amongst
which were a curious electrical clock and orrery, figures of
which were afterwards given in his Introduction to Electricity.

A new kind of electrical orrery was about this period contrived

by Mr. Edward King of Lincoln's-lun, with whom Ferguson was
intimate. This is a very simple machine --duly appreciated
and highly recommended by Ferguson in his future lectures.

                                        s

From some old notes, we find that he made several of these

electrical orreries, and gave them away as presents to some of

his friends who were electricians.
    The above woodeut is a representation of " King's Orrery,"

and is really the original of the electrical orreries sold by

Opticians, &c., of the present day.                  The following is Ferguson's

description of it :--

tha2tG0"1Euutdhoesiafor"egdoieindg   extract  from   Mrs. Casborne's interesting letter, it is noted
                                    in 1801,   aged  about 48. Therefore, it would be sometime
iu the year 1767, when in her I5th year, that she became Ferguson's pupil.
352 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

  " A new Experiment in Electricity, showing the Motions of

the Sun, Earth, and Moon ; by Edward King, Esq., of Lincoln's-

Inu.

    The Sun and Earth go round the common centre of gravity
between them, in a solar year, and the Earth and Moon go
round the common centre of gravity between them in a lunar

month. These motions are represented by an electrical ex

periment as follows :

   The ball S represents the Sun, E the Earth, and M the

Moon, connected by bended wires a c and b d ; a is the centre

of gravity between the Sun and Earth, and 6 is the centre of
gravity between the Earth and Moon. These three balls, and

their connecting wires, are hung and supported on the sharp
point of a wire A, which is stuck upright in the prime conduc
tor B of the electrical machine ; the Earth and Moon hanging
upon the sharp point of the wire cae, in which is a pointed

short pin, sticking out horizontally at c; and there is just such

another pin at sticking out in the same manner, in the wire
that connects the Earth and Moon.

    When the globe (or cylinder) of the electrical machine is
turned, the above-mentioned balls and wires are electrified ;

and the electrical fire Hying off horizontally from the points c

and d, cause S and E to move round their common centre of
gravity a ; and E and M to move round their common centre
of gravity b. And. as E and M are light when compared with

S and E, there is much less friction on the point b than upon

the point a ; so that E and M will make many more revolutions

Iabout the point b than S and E make about the point a.

had this experiment from my ingenious friend Mr. King; and
have adjusted the weights of the balls so that E and M go
twelve times round b in the time that S and E go only once

round a.

   It makes a good amusing experiment in electricity ; but is so

far from proving that the motions of the planets in the heavens
are owing to a like cause, that it plainly proves they are not
For the real Sun and Planets are not connected by wires or

bars of metal ; and, consequently, there can be no such metallic
points as a and b between them. And without such points, the
 electric fluid would never cause them to move : for, take away
 these points iu the above-mentioned experiment, and the balls
                  JAMES FERGUSON.             353

will continue at rest, let them be ever so strongly electrified."
(Vide " Select Mechanical Exercises." Lond., 1773, pp. 132 --

134).

The wheel-works of Ferguson's electrical orreries were prin

cipally constructed with card-board,-- we have a card-wheel of

one of these electrical orreries, but in a mutilated state. About
same time, he made a " Thunder-House " of which he in his MS.
" Common Place
and ink drawing,  Book," p. 106  it(Caos l."  Lib. Edin.), gives a pen
                  and speaks of
                                              A Capital Experiment."

   Death of Ferguson's Publisher. --Our next note refers to
the death of Mr. Andrew Millar, Ferguson's Publisher and
Bookseller. He died at Kew on June 8th, 1768, aged 61. The

business was afterwards carried on under the firm of " Strachan

and Cadell," (successors to Mr. Millar) in the Strand. (Vide

note 200).

   Ferguson's second son, Murdoch, sent to Edinburgh
University to Study Medicine, &c. -- Ferguson's second son,

Murdoch Ferguson, went to Edinburgh at the end of this year

to attend the Medical Classes of its University. Alexander
Smith, Esq., Secretary to the University, informs us, by letter,
that Murdoch Ferguson is entered in the books of the Univer
sity of Edinburgh as a Medical Student, and as being in at

tendance in the classes of Anatomy and Surgery during the
session 1768--1769. Murdoch attended one session only. He

appears to have been a rather unstable youth, and was the

cause of grief to his parents, as shall be again adverted to in

the proper place and under the proper date. Ferguson, it will
be recollected, was in Edinburgh sometime in the summer of
the previous year (1767), and was much in the company of Doc
tors Buchan and Lind, and it may be assumed he would men

tion to them his son's predilection for the medical profession,

and that they would advise Ferguson to send him to Edinburgh.

   Visits to the King at Kew, &c. --Ferguson this year,

1768, began, by command of the king, to visit his Majesty
at Kew and St. James's. Indeed, from this time, till

his death, Ferguson had the honour of frequent invita
tions to converse with his Majestv on Philosophical and

                                                 2Y
354 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Mechanical topics, and on the turning of wood, ivory, &c. The
king, who took great delight in turning, had at Kew, a turning
lathe, with a full complement of tools ; and it was admitted by
the wood, ivory, and brass turners of that period, that the king
was a most expert and ingenious turner in wood and metal.261

   The Solar Spots. -- The following engraving of the Sun's

disc and spots, as observed by Ferguson on December 3d, 176S,

is taken from a short leaf inserted between pp. 256, 257 of his
MS. " Common Place Book," (Col. Lib. Edin.) Above the MS.
sketch are the words,

   " 8j)ot8 on the Sun seen on Saturday, Dec. 3d, at Ten

o'clock, A.d. 1768."

   And appended is the following note :--

   2(" Mr. Henry Mayhew,         in    one   of his  works,  "st1atheasvethgaitveanu  old turner,  gossip
ing over the reminiscences       of    his   trade,  said,                            gentlemen    lessons

in turning. Many gentlemen, and some peers, are very good turners. I gave
lessons to a gentleman who had the lathe and all the turning tools and apparatus
that old George 111. used to work with. They sold for i)500 at a sale. 1 have
seen some of the old King's turning, and it was very fair. With industry, he
might have   made 40s. or        50s.  a-week as a      hard-wood and ivory turner." (Vide
"Novelties,    Inventions,       and   Curiosities      in Arts and Manufactures," 3d Edit.

Lond., 1853, p. 254).
   Regarding Ferguson's visits to the King at Kew, vide Dr. Houlston's letter in

t"heLeAcptuixremsdioxn  ; also,  conclusion  of Memoir  in Partington's  edition      of Ferguson's
                        Select   Subjects."
                        JAMES FERGUSON.                                          355

/" observed the Sun at Air. Nairne'a, Cornhill, and made
Ithe above drawing, which was compared with the Sun by Mr.
Nairne.     never saw so many spots upon the Sun at any
time before.---J F"

                                                     1769.

   Publications. -- Early in the year 1769, Ferguson published

the sixth edition of his " Analysis of a Course of Lectures," &c,

see page 278 ; also, a Syllabus of his Course, with the following
title :--

" Syllabus of a Course of Lectures on the most interesting parts of
Mechanics, Hydrostatics, Hydraulics, Pneumatics, Electricity, and
Astronomy. By James     Faetr,g--usoCnic,eroF, .R1.ST.us).
omnium kmtarium artium                                      (Philoxophia mater
                                                               London : Printed

in the year mdcclxix."

   Transit of Venus. -- Sometime in March. 1769, Ferguson

published, on a large sheet, a projection and description of the
then forthcoming Transit of Venus, being a copy of the paper

which he had some time before sent to the Royal Society. It

has been long out of print ; we understand that there is a copy
of it in the British Museum.

   Letter from Ferguson to Mr. Hawys. --Mr. Hawys, in

March, 1769, sent a letter to Ferguson respecting some errors,
&c, in " Tables and Tracts." The following is his reply,

copied from the original in our collection. It is addressed on

the cover, " To Mr. Charles Hawys, Charter House Square,

London."

      " Sir,

              I was in the Country when my Tables and Tracts were printed.
Hence some errors arose that probably would not if I had been in Town, and

had had proper time to correct the Press.

   In page 110, the lengthening of the Pendulum in Lat. 90 deg. should be

0'2065 inches. The integer 2 should be 0.

In the Table of remarkable Mrvts and Events (at the Julian

end, pag. 179), Please to correct as in the margin, Period

where the numbers under Julian Period 4618 and 4640 For 4618 read 6418
                                                            j -- 4640
are wrong.                                                                       6440
But (just now) on looking at the Errata, I find these last numbers are

mentioned.

There is no absolute determinate proportion between the weight of a pen
356 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

dulum Ball and the wire by which it hangs --only, the less the wire weighs
in proportion to the Ball, the nearer will the length of the wire (or rather the
distance between the point of suspension and point of oscillation) be to what
is calculated in the Table you mention, with respect to the standard Pendu
lum for vibrating seconds.

    You have not told me whether your Clock in the Country swings seconds
or not. But this you may depend upon ; that, whether it does or not, the
alteration of the Barrel will not alter the going of the Clock, as to its keep
ing time. Only, if you reduce the size of the Barrel so as to make it spend
less time, you must add as much to the present weight that keeps the Clock

going as you diminish the barrel below its present size. I apprehend the

Clock goes only 24 hours ; or at least, must be drawn up every day. As
much as the Barrel is lessened so much less line or cord it will spend ; and
the same Pendulum will still do.

   As to De Moivre's Tables, I confess I do not understand them, having

Inever studied anything of Annuities on Lives. And only put in as much as
Imy Bookseller desired me, with just as much explanation as he marked out

in De Moivre's Book ; so that I am really sorry cannot answer your ques

tion, who am,

                                          Sir,
                                                         Your most humble servant,
                                                                                 James Ferguson.

    Bolt Court, Fleet Street,
           March nth, 1769."

    Comet's Orbit Projection. --Among drawings in the Li

brary of George III. (now in the British Museum), is a projec

tion, by Ferguson, of a Comet's path, on paper 14 inches by 8,
 entitled,

       " A Projection of that part of the Eastern half of the Heavens in

      J.which the Comet was seen at London ; Wednesday, Sepf. 13th,

        1769, at 40 minutes after 3 in the morning; delineated by Fer
         guson."

     This projection shows Cancer, Gemini, Taurus, Orion, Lepus.
 Canes Major, &c. As Ferguson about this period sometimes

visited George III. at Kew, it is probable that he gave this pro

jection to the King on one of those visits.

   Ferguson, and Dr Johnson. --The following (which may

 be referred to about this period) is from " Boswell's Life of
 Johnson:" -- " 1769, October 26th. --There was a pretty large
                                     JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                 357

circle this evening.262 Dr. Johnson was in very good humour,
lively and ready to talk upon all subjects. Mr. Ferguson, the
self-taught philosopher, told him of a newly invented machine
which went without horses ; a man who sat in it turned a handle,
which worked a spring that drove it forward. Then, Sir, said

Johnson, what is gained the man has his choice, whether he
will move himself alone, or himself and the machine too." 263
                                     ;
                                         is,

                                                            is is

                                                                                                                                    ;
   Imaginary Sale of Busts -- Martin and Ferguson. --Glanc
ing over Dodsley's Annual Register for 1769, we stumbled upon
an amusing effusion in rhyme. -- Subject -- an imaginary sale of

Busts. Several are sold to Garrick sold the head of Roscius

this disposed of, the head of Newton put up, for which Martin
and Ferguson contended. No doubt Ferguson would see this
poetical bill of sale --would smile at the allusion to himself as

one of the bidders, and at the idea of night compelling him to

leave the sale and to lecture home.

   These are the lines referring to " Newton's head," &c. --

                  " For Newton's head, whose piercing eyes
                    Explor'd the wonders of the skies,
                    Who could with rectitude declare
                    The size and distance of each star,
                    Martin and Ferguson contended
                    And how the contest would have ended
                                                              ;
                                                                  7
   202 Dr. Johnson's residence at this period was No. Johnson's Court, Fleet
Street. This was his residence from about 1765 to 1775, when he removed to

Bolt Court (the Court in which Ferguson then resided).
263 The following paragraph              extracted from the Leeds Mercury of April
                                     is

"A11th, 1769:--                                                                     ;
            correspondent writes that Mr. Moore's newly invented machine to go           is
without horses, for which he obtained his Majesty's Patent, not only adapted
to wheel carriages, in general, such as coaches, chaises, carts, waggons, &c. but                                 ,
to ploughing, harrowing, and every other branch of husbandry; also, to all other
machines and engines now in use throughout the kingdom in various branches
of manufacture wherein draught horses are now employed. We hear that the in
genious inventor has sold all his own horses, and by his advice many of his
friends have done the same, because the price of that noble and useful animal
will be so affected by their new invention, that their value will not be one-fourth
                                    Vide London   Mechanics'
of what   a it        at present."  List," 1769,  No. 930,    Magazine, vol.            1"6Tth.,                   135.
   Also,      isin the "Patent                                        recorded--                              Moore.
                                                            is it
                                                                 is

                                                                                             is
                                                                                                        p.

                                                                                                                  is ;
Linen Draper, Several multiplying levers, or additions of power, that will
                and extend motion    ofantidmer,ed--ucseupevribiorrattioonw, habty   which power
expedite         proportionate loss                                                 hath been yet       gained
without                                                                                            practised
which will be of great public utility in agriculture,
engines, and other things where mechanical power              carriages,            be  nuasveidg,a"tio&nc,.  mIitlls,
                                                               or can
likely that Ferguson referred to this "new invention" by Mr. Moore on the

above occasion.
358 KXTENDED MEMOIR OF

I know not, had not evening come
And called them both to lecture home ;
                              I
They gone, no bidders could      "see,
So light was held Philosophy  !
Vide " A Familiar Epistle to a Friend," Dodsley s
          Annual lityutrr for 1763, p. 22U.

    Martin, Ferguson's rival bidder at this imaginary sale, was

the celebrated Benjamin Martin, Optician and Mathematical
Instrument Maker in Fleet Street, from 1750 to 1782. He was
the author of many works on Natural and Experimental Philo
sophy, Astronomy, Biography, &c., and a renowned maker of
Orreries, Telluriums and Planetariums. Brewster's Edinburgh

Encyclopaedia, at p. 629, refers to one of these machines of his
construction. As an author, lecturer, and a maker of orreries,

&c., he was Ferguson's rival. His shop was known as the
Newton's Head, a bust of the philosopher being over his door.

Martin was born at Chichester in 1704 --died in London in 1782,

aged 78. Ferguson, in 1769, resided in Bolt Court, Fleet Street,
close by the " Newton's Head," and consequently was a near
neighbour to Martin.

   The Solar Spots. -- The following view of and short note on

the Solar Spots, is copied from a leaf inserted between pp.
256, 257 of Ferguson's MS. "Common Place Book" (Col. Lib.

Edin.).
                    JAMES FERGUSON.                                                359

Over the view are the words, " S/Jots seen on ilie Sun, Tues

day, Not*. 21st, 1769, at 10 o'clock"
IAnnexed to the sketch is the following note :--

" olyserved the Sun at Mr. Sludge's in Fleet Street, and
made this drawing of the Spots, wh ich are more in number
Ithan those seen at Mr. Nairne's in Cornhill on 3(/ December,
1768. But       am  ainsfovrjhmeendobtshearvtedthesogmreeatedsatysspaogto.n--ow/.  seen  is
not near so  large
                                                                                   F."

The shop of Mr. Mudge, Watchmaker, in Fleet Street, was a

few doors (on the same side of the street) to the east of Fergu
son's residence in Bolt Court. The above sketch is on the same
interpolated leaf of the " Common Place Book " as the sketch

of December 3d, 1768, is delineated on.

                                                      1770.

   Lectures at Newcastle-on-Tyne. -- Early in the year 1770,

Ferguson was at Newcastle-on-Tyne, &c, delivering a Course of
twelve Lectures on Mechanics, Hydrostatics, Hydraulics, Pneu
matics, Electricity, and Astronomy.

   Interview with Dr. Hutton, (Newcastle). -- Ferguson, im

mediately after his arrival in Newcastle, appears to have called
on Dr. Hutton, by whom he was kindly received. The doctor
gave him the use of his school for his lectures, and also interest
ed himself among his friends by disposing of tickets for the

course.

   Dr. Hutton, in his Tracts, makes mention of Ferguson's pro
fessional visit to Newcastle ; and particularly of a large drawing
which Ferguson had-- showing how to divide the area of a
Circle into any number of equal parts by means of concentric
circles. Dr. Hutton says, " About the year 1770, when Mr. James
Ferguson, the ingenious lecturer on Astronomy and Mechanics,

in his peregrinations came to Newcastle, where I was then

Iresiding, to give the usual course of his public lectures, on

which occasion, with the assistance of my friends, not only
procured him a numerous and respectable audience, but also
accommodated him with the free use of the new school rooms,

Iwhich had lately built, to deliver his lectures in. As Mr. F.

commonly amused my family and friends at evenings, with
showing his ingenious mechanical contrivances and drawings,
360 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

on one of these occasions he produced a very neat and correct

drawing, on a large scale, being a construction of a problem--

showing how to divide the Area of a Circle into any number of

equal parts, in the very prolix way as given by Hawney ; but
Iwhich he exhibited as a great curiosity.
                                                                              ventured to remark
to him that I thought a much simpler construction might be

found out for this problem, which was then new to me. As Mr.

F. expressed a wish to see such a thing as a simpler construc

tion, which however he seemed to have his doubts of procuring,

I was induced to consider it that evening before going to rest,

and discovered the construction.

  I" The next morning showed him the new and very simple

construction, with its demonstration, which he seemed much

pleased with, on account of the apparent simplicity, but doubted
very much that it might not be correctly true. On referring

him to the accompanying demonstration to satisfy himself of its

Igeometrical truth, was much surprised by his reply, that he

could nut understand that, but he would make the drawing cor

Irectly on a large scale, which was always his way to try if such

things were true. In my surprise asked where he had learn
ed Geometry, and by what Euclid, or other book ; to which he

frankly replied he had never learned any Geometry, nor could
ever understand the demonstration of any of Euclid's proposi

tions.                                                                                                   ,
" Accordingly the next morning, with a joyful countenance,

he brought me the construction neatly drawn out on a large

sheet of pasteboard, saying he esteemed it a treasure, having

found it quite righL, as every point and line agreed to a hair's

breadth by measurement on the scale." 2u4 This problem and

        Charles Hutton, LL.D., F.R.S., &c., an eminent Mathematician, born at

Neweastle-on-Tyne, 14th August, 1737. He was a teacher in his native town

from alwut the year 1758 to 1773, when he was elected Professor of Mathematics

fptDKioruoeebtydnhlasiesliGthyRSueoodnoycpfiaoehlwttiyhsMde,ei"ElraiM;ta"maarrottyhhn".ge"AsmOctanadwItnteihhcmeiacy1hlin78aTitt3mria,aWaclyto"soE.Vb"leleweloimccmihItenei.ennstt1iso7loin8efoe6Cf,dcaoCnhnhonitsinrosiinbc"upaBtSTepaetdeaclrlcstsitmos; na""osnn."yO"nMpOaatInpthnheetrehs1mFe7oaSrtMcot5eiectaahhonleef
        In 1795, "Mathematical aml Philosophical                                                           Dic
;"at"inoMdnamrPyiht.u"ilcolsao'sp17h9iRc6ea, cl r"eAaStuiobCnjeoscutrisns.e"  and translated Montucla's  work,
        of Mathematics
        Mathematics and Natural Philosophy." In                                                          IS03,

he, in conjunction with Drs. Pearson and Shaw, undertook the task of abridging
the Philosophical Transactions, which were completed in 1809 in 18 quarto
volumes. Was for sometime foreign Secretary of Royal Society. Seceded from
the R. S. in 1784. He died '27th January 1823 in the 86th year of his age.
                     JAMES FERGUSON.                                   361

the construction he afterwards inserted in his " Select Mechani

cal Exercises," p. 123, printed in 1773.

   The problem alluded to by Dr. Hutton is as follows :-- " To

divide a given Circle into any proposed number of equal parts

by means of other circles concentric with the given one."

(Hutton's Tracts ; Prob. 34, vol 3,  pt.hu3s79:--). " To  divide  the  Area
   Ferguson proposes the question

of a given Circle into any required Number of equal Parts, by

concentric Circles."

   " In the annexed figure let A B D E be a circle, whose area

is required to be divided into 5 equal parts by concentric circles,

aaFGHI.

  "Divide the semi-diameter A C into 5 equal parts, as A 1 --
1 2--2 3-- 3 4-- 4 5 ; and on the middle point e as a centre,
with the radius e A, describe the semi-diameter A a b c d C.

From the points of equal division at 1, 2,  3, and        4,  and   perpen
                                                          6,
dicular to A C, raise the perpendiculars    la, 2             3 c,  4 d, till

they meet the semicircle in the points a, b, c, and d : through
which points, draw the concentric circles F, G, H, I, and the

thing will be done.  2z
362 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

" Supposing that five blacksmiths should agree to buy a

grinding-stone among them, each paying an equal share of the

price, and that each man should therefore have the use of the
stone, to wear oft' a fifth part of till came to the last man,
                                               F            I it

                                                       it,
who was to wear out the first man should wear the stone
E

        F,
                  I, it

                                            ;
from to the second, from to G, the third, from to H, the
                                                                     G
                                                                                      C.
fourth, from H to and the fifth, from to the centre or axle

" By this easy method, which learnt of Mr. Hutton, teacher
                                               I

of the Mathematics at Newcastle, the area of any circle may

\ye dividedC        concentric circles into any required number of
                by
equal parts. For, into whatever number of equal parts the

radius A be divided, the area of the circle will be divided

into the like number of parts, all equal among themselves."

("Select Mechanical Exercises" pp. 123, 124)
   Dr. Hutton states that Ferguson made drawing on a sheet
                    by

                                it
                                                               it a
of pasteboard, of the method he had given him for solving the

problem in question, and on presenting to the doctor, Fer

guson expressed himself quite delighted with the new solution,
                                               was quite. right. A writer in the
as he had found that
Edinburgh Review referring to this point, remarks that "
                                                                         it

was probably        measuring the radius of each circle, on a scale

to which his figure was adapted, and thence computing the area

(the rule for which he no doubt took for granted), he would find
the difference of the contiguous circles constantly the same.

It a curious circumstance, however, that Ferguson, who had

so strong genius for Mechanics, and so much invention wher

ever machinery was concerned, should have had so singular an
is
            a

incapacity for comprehending the reasonings of Geometry, at          p.
the same time that he had taste sufficient to admire the

beauty of its conclusions."-- Edinburgh Review, vol 22, 95,

1813--1814.

   Tidal Clock for London Bridge. -- In the year 1770,

Ferguson contrived and made a Clock to show the state
of the tides at London Bridge. This Clock was more simple in

its construction than the one he contrived for Captain
Hutchinson, in the year 1764, for showing the state of the
tide at Liverpool. Ferguson describes this new Tide Clock

h(iellruesttrraatnesdcribbeyd,d--rawings) in "Select Mechanical Exercises,"
JAMES FERGUSON.                                         363

   " A Clock showing the apparent daily Motions of the Sun and

Moon, the Age and Phases of the Moon, with the Time of her
coming to the Meridian, and the Times of High and Low Water,
by having only two Wheels and a pinion added to the common
Movement.

    The dial-plate of this Clock is represented by Fig. 1 in the

annexed engraving. It contains all the 24 hours of the day and

night.

Dial-face, Wheel-work, &c., of Ferguaon's Tidal Clock.

S is the Sun which serves as an hour-index, by going round

the dial-plate in 24 hours ; and M is the Moon which goes

round in 24 hours 50£ minutes, from any point in the hour-

circle to the same point again, which is equal to the time of the

Moon's going round in the heavens, from the meridian of any

place to the same meridian again.

    The Sun is fixed to a circular plate (as in Fig. 3) and
carried round by the motion of that plate, on which the 24

hours are engraven, and within them is a circle divided into

29i equal parts for the days of the Moon's age, accounted from

the time of any new Moon to the next after; and each day

XIIstands directly under the time (in the 24 hour circle) of the
Moon's coming to the meridian, the    under the Sun stand
XIIing for mid-day, and the opposite
                                      for midnight. Thus,

when the Moon is 8 days old, she comes to the meridian at half
364 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

an hour past VI in the afternoon ; and when she is 16 days old,

she comes to the meridian at 1 o'clock in the morning. The
Moon M (Fig. 1) is fixed to another circular plate, of the same
diameter with that which carries the Sun ; and this Moon-plate

turns round in 24 hours 50£ minutes. It is cut open, so as to

show some of the hours, and days of the Moon's age, on the
pkite below it that carries the Sun, and, across this opening, at

a and b, are two short pieces of small wire in the Moon-plate.

The wire a shows the day of the Moon's age, and time of her
coming to the meridian, on the plate below it that carries the

Sun ; and the wire b shows the time of high water for that day,

on the same plate. These wires must be placed as far from one

another, as the time of the Moon's coming to the meridian differs

from the time of high water at the place where the clock is

intended to serve. At London-Bridge, it is high-water when

the Moon is two hours and an half past the meridian.

   Above this plate, that carries the Moon, there is a fixed plate
N, supported by a wire A, the upper end of which is fixed to that

plate, and the lower end is bent to a right angle, and fixed into

the dial-plate at the lowermost or midnight XII. This plate
may represent the Earth, and the dot at L London, or any other

place at which the clock is designed to show the times of high

and low water.

   Around this plate is an elliptical shade upon the plate that
carries the Moon M : the highest points of this shade are marked

High Water, and the lowest points Low Water. As this plate
turns round below the fixed plate N, the high and low water

points come successively even with L, and stand just over it
at the times when it is high or low water at the given place ;

which times are pointed out by the Sun S, among the 24 hours
XIIon the dial-plate : and, in the arch of this plate, above
                                                              at

noon, is a plate H that rises and falls as the tides does at the

given place. Thus, when it is high water (suppose at London)

one of the highest points of the elliptical shade stands just over

L, and the tide-plate H is at its greatest height : and when it

is low water at London, one of the lowest points of the elliptical
shade stands over L, and the tide-plate H is quite down, so as

to disappear beyond the dial-plate.

As the Sun S goes round the dial-plate in 24 hours, and the

Moon in 24 hours 50£ minutes, the Moon goes so much slower
                          JAMES FERGUSON.                                    365

than the Sun as to make 28£ revolutions in the time the Sun
makes 29 4 ; and therefore the Moon's distance from the Sun is
continually changing : so that, at whatever time the Sun and

Moon are together, or in conjunction, in 29£ days afterwards
they will be in conjunction again. Consequently, the plate that

carries the Moon moves so much slower than the plate that car

ries the Sun, as always to make the wire a shift over one day

of the Moon's age on the Sun's plate in 24 hours.

   In the plate that carries the Moon, there is a round hole m

through which the phase or appearance of the Moon is seeu on

the Sun's plate, for every day of the Moon's age from change to

change. When the Sun and Moon are in conjunction, the whole

space seen through the hole m is black ; when the Moon is

opposite to the Sun (or full) all that space is white : when she
is in either of her quarters, the same space is half black half

white : and different in all other positions, so as the white part

may resemble the visible or enlightened part of the Moon for

every day of her age.

To show these various appearances of the Moon there is a
N/Fblack shaded space (Fig. 3) as
                                   I, on the plate that carries

the Sun. When the Sun and Moon arc in conjunction, the

whole space seen through the round hole is black, as at N :

when the Moon is full, opposite to the Sun, all the space seen

through the round hole is white, as at F : when the Moon is in
her first quarter, as at /, or in her last quarter, as at l, the hole

is only half shaded ; and more or less accoidingly for each posi

tion of the Moon with regard to her age ; as is abundantly plain

by the Figure.265

   The wheel-work and tide-work of this clock is represented by

Fig. 2, in which A and B are two wheels of equal diameters.
A has 57 teeth, its axis is hollow, it comes through the dial of

clock, and carries the Sun-plate with the Sun (S, in Fig.
                                                      4
has 59 teeth, its axis  C is     solid spindle, turning within the holis
                                                                                 1).
                              a
                                                                             It B
low axis of A, and carrying the Moon-plate with the Moon (M
                       A pinion of 19 leaves takes into the teeth of both
in Fig.
is
                  1).

                  it
2H5 This way of showing the varied Phases of the Moon  simple and in
genious, but will not show the varied phases correctly, only approximately.
only by the rotation of ball, half black half white, in 29 days, that the varied
                       a

phases as shown in the heavens can be represented, and this method Ferguson has
adopted in some of his other astronomical machinery.
366 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

the wheels, and turns them round. This pinion is turned round

by the common clock-work, in 8 hours ; and, as 8 is a third part

of 24, so 19 is a third part of 57 : and therefore the wheel A of 57

teeth, that carries the Sun, will go round in 24 hours exactly.
But, as the same pinion C (that turns the wheel A of 57 teeth)
turns also the wheel B of 59 teeth, this last wheel will not turn

round in less than 24 hours 50£ minutes of time ; for as 57
teeth are to 24 hours, so are 59 teeth to 24 hours 50£ minutes,

very nearly.'"i6

   On the back of the Moon-wheel of 59 teeth is fixed an ellip
tical ring D, which, as it turns round, raises and lets down a

lever E F, whose centre of motion is on a pin at F ; and this,

by means of an upright bar G, raises and lets down the tide-
plate H, twice in the time of the Moon's revolving from the

meridian to the meridian again. The upper edge of this plate
is shown at H, in Fig. 1, and it moves between four rollers
R, R, R, R, in Fig. 2."

   In his recently discovered MS. " Common Place Book," we

find drawings and a description of this Clock, being similar to

what is here given. Along the foot of the Dial-face in the MS.

are the words PEREUNT ET IMPUTANTUR in large pen-

and-ink lettering, being the same motto that we Hud on his
                         246). -- MS. " Common Place Book,"
Card-Dial                                                                             95, Col.
I                                                                            : is p.
                    (p."/Lib. Edin.
   At the conclusion of his MS. description, Ferguson adds,
contrived this Clock in July, 1770."

Ferguson, after concluding his description of this Clock, adds,
" have made one of these clocks to go
an old watch, in the following manner --                  by          the movement of

   2«<>These are                          :            5n9u=mb2e4rs,
describing other                                 ::

                                                      :
                  Ferguson's    old and   well-known      a           already noticed when
                   pieces of   clockwork                     h.        50 m. 31s. 35thds.,
                                          --57 24

the true mi'au apparent period being 24 h. 50 m. 28 s. 22 thds. 42 fourths. The
relative velocities of these wheels maybe viewed as kind of "Mechanical
Paradox," for with respect to any given points in the two wheels being brought
exactly over or against each other, the point in wheel 59 will fall back continu
ally from the point in wheel 57 and while the point in wheel 59 thus goino
                                  ;

back,       also going forward (both wheels turn round in the same direction).
       it                      I
           is
We may here notice that the tnean apparent diurnal revolution of the Moon             is
                  ;d. 3
                            1

                       -
said to be accomplished in 24 50 m. 28 s. 22 thds. 48 fourths, this period ap
pears to be   thds. fourths too slow, which mayh.        be tested as follows       r--edSuucpepdo=se
the lunation  to consist of 29        d.                    88 s., decimally
                                          12 h. 44 m.  2

29 5305887    in that time, the Moon makes 28 5305S87 apparent revolutions
It^HHii' =from

-f-28
       the meridian to the meridian       again; hence,               an(l 29 5305887
                                          24 841202496
       5305887 = 035050104 X 24 =                        h. X BO X 60 X 60 X60        24 h.

50 m. 28 s. 19 thds. 42 fourths.
               JAMES FERGUSON.                                                              367

I" The first or great wheel of a watch goes round in tour
hours.  put a wheel of 20 teeth on the end of the axis

of that wheel to turn a wheel of 40 teeth, on the axis of a

pinion C of 19 leaves, by which means that pinion is turned

round in 8 hours." Two wheels A B of equal diameters, and
having 57 and 59 teeth respectively, are turned by -- " the
        p. A

                                                       B
                                                                                       it,
wheel   in 24 hours, and the wheel in 24 hours 50J min

utes." 2C7--" Select Mechanical Exercises" 3d Edit. London,

1790, 19.

        Plan of the Astronomical Wheel-work of the Solar and Lunar Watch.

Section of the Astronomical Wheel-work of Ferguson's Solar and Lunar Watch.

As there no engraving of the plan of the wheel-work
             is
of this solar and lunar watch, in any of Ferguson's works weis
                                            a it,

                                                                          ;
                                                                             ;

                                                                       if
shall give a vertical and sectional plan of taken from our

own drawings.

SOT Ferguson hero mentions that he "pat a wheel of 20 teeth on the end of the
axis of that wheel," viz. the fuzee wheel.    There must be mistake here                     for
the small wheel 20 be put on said axis,     how could the watch be wound                    up? --

wheel 20 would turn about with the key in the act of winding; and consequently,
would in its turn act upon and turn round wheels 40, 19, 57, and 59, and de

range the positions of the hands. The small wheel 20 must therefore not be
placed on the axis of the fuzee, but made fast to the back
                                                                 of  the fuzee wheel

itself, and then when the key applied to the axis of it, and in the act of wind
ing up, these wheels will not be in the least affected thereby.
368 EXTENDED MEMOIK OF

   Fig. 1 is a vertical or ground plan of the wheel-work. Fig. 2

shows it in section as applied to the watch. Description :--The

t'uzee wheel is assumed to turn once round in 4 hours ; to the

back of the fuzee wheel is made fast by pins a small wheel of 20
teeth, which drives a wheel of 40 teeth once round in 8 hours.

The axis of this wheel of 40 teeth ascends through the frame
D D of the watch (shown in Fig. 2 at c) ; on this axis is made fast
a small wheel of 19 teeth, which takes into and drives round a

wheel of 57 teeth, shown in Figs. 1 and 2 at A ; now as the small
wheel 19 turns once round in 8 hours, it is evident that if 19

be made to turn a wheel of 57 teeth, that wheel will turn once

round in 24 hours; accordingly, the small wheel 19 drives

wheel A (in Figs. 1 and 2), of 57 teeth, causing it to turn

round in 24 hours precisely, which wheel is made to carry
an index, having on its extremity a small ball representing
the Sun; the small wheel 19, also turns a wheel under

wheel 57, having 59 teeth ; consequently, this wheel of 59
must move much slower than wheel 57, (in the ratio of j^l,
so much so, that instead of turning round in 24 hours, with
wheel 57, it will not turn round in less time than 24 hours 50

minutes 31 seconds 35 thirds; the hollow axis of wheel 59

ascends through the hollow axis of wheel 57, and carries an
index, carrying on its extreme point a ball representing the
Moon, as shown in Fig. 2. Thus, by this simple contrivance,
the Sun will make a revolution round the 24 hours on the dial-

plate of the watch in 24 hours, and the Moon in 24 hours 50
minutes 31 seconds 35 thirds. Figs. 1 and 2, in the above cut
will be easily understood, as both figures and letters on them
have reference to the same details.1'6*

   In concluding his description of this Clock and Watch in his

MS. " Common Place Book," he says,

   2« If 57:24 h.: : 59?-- 59 X 24 = 14164-57 = 24 h. 50 m. 31s. 35 thds., which

is a motion too slow by 3 s. 13 thds. The true mean apparent diurnal revolution
of the Moon is accomplished in 24 h. 50 m. 28 s. 22 thds. 48 fourths. (See note
 154).

    We may here mention that the late Mr. Andrew Reid, watchmaker, London,
who died at Hrixton in 1835, aged 85, had often told us that he was on familiar
terms with Ferguson ; was often at his house in Holt Court, Fleet Street, and had
there seen several works of watches titled up with a variety of astronomical mo
tions, uh also strong works noted for their correct time-keeping -- one pair of
 double silver cases suited all the works. These cases, with one of the works,
 came into Mr. A. Rcid's possession in 1801, from whom it was purchased by the
 writer.
JAMES FERGUSON.  369

    "I contrived this Clock in July, 1770, and put the movement of

       an old Watch to it, by means of which it is now going very well

    I J.(March 10th, 1775); the two wheels A and B are only of Card-paper,

       and yet have reason to believe that they will last 30 years. -- F."

    No traces whatever of either this Clock or Watch are now to

be found. --A writer in the " Operative Mechanic " " thinks it
extremely probable " that Ferguson " had the dial of the Clock
at Hampton Court in his eye when he contrived this Clock."

See the " Operative Mechanic, and British Mechanist," p. 495.
We are of a different opinion ; although the Clock at Hampton
Court shows the apparent daily revolutions of the Sun and Moon,
-- it does not exhibit the rise and fall of the tides ; besides,
Ferguson made a Clock in 1747 which exhibited the apparent
motions of t he Sun and Moon. (See pp. 113 -- 120).

   Tide Rotula. --Sometime during this year, Ferguson con
trived and made a Tide Rotula, which consisted of one fixed or

immoveable card of about 8 inches in diameter, having round
its circumference twice twelve hours in Roman characters ;

above this immoveable outer card is a circular moveable card,

having in a broad circular space round its circumference, the

names of many Seaports in their relative positions to times of

High water; within this circle of names of Seaports there are

                                                       3A
370 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

two other concentric circles, -- the first having round it twice

twelve hours in small Roman characters,-- the second, or interior

circle, has round it the 29^ days and other divisions of the
Moon's age, and round the centre of thi* circle there is a black

elliptical shade for producing the varied phases of the Moon

through a small circular opening in the card above, and done in

the same way as in the Clock last described. Above this last-

mentioned card there is a smaller one having a Moon fixed to

and directly under that the small circular opening in which
it,
                    is

                                               is
are exhibited the phases of the Moon as before noticed round
                                                                          ;
                                                                                  ;
the centre  the figure of the Earth and some of its several

circles, surrounded by an ellipsis representing water all which

particulars are shown in the annexed woodcut of the Rotula.is
   Of this new Tide Rotula, the following Ferguson's descrip

tion, from which will be seen that this instrument only
            it                                                            is
                                                                                       a

modification or improvement of the Tidal Clock, for showing the

times of High and Low water at London Bridge, just described.
    " This Rotula," says Ferguson, " only an improvement on
                                                   is

                                                       it
                                                                      in
the Clock just described, by making                show the time of the

Day and Night in the most remarkable places                               the world at

any instant of time at London, or at any other given place,

without one single additional wheel.
As in the scheme, -- (without being made to go by means
if

   it
        is
of a clock or watch, or any other method),--           it                 not useless;

                                                            is

for, you put London to the time of the day or night there, all

the other places will point to the time of the day or night then

opposite to them respectively. If you put the narrow black

slip, under the Moon, to the day of the Moon's age (seen through
the opening) on the middle plate, the same slip will cut the

time of the Moon's coming to the meridian for that day, in the

circle of 24 hours on that plate, and the other slip (directly op

posite to the words, High Wafer) will cut the time of High
water at London Bridge on that Day, in the same circle of 24

hours. And at any time, London be put to that time, and
;

                            if

                                                                   it
                                                                                is
                                                                       it
                                                                                             is
the Moon's slip to the day of her age, you may then know the

state of the Tide at London, by the position of the elliptical

shade the longest diameter of which will be even with the two

XII's. in the outermost circle of 24 hours when                           High Water

at London Bridge, and even with the two VI's when                                                Low

Water. In the intermediate times, the position of the elliptical
                               JAMES FERGUSON.                                                         371

shade shows whether the Tide is ebbing or flowing. --J. F.,

1770." 269

   "Introduction to Electricity," Published.-- In 1770,
Ferguson went to press with a new work --very different from
any of his previous Treatises --viz. an Elementary Treatise on

Electricity, a small octavo of 140 pages, illustrated by three
folding-plate engravings of the Electrical Machine and appara

tus. This work has passed through several editions, --viz. in
1770,-- 1775,-- 1778-- 1790,-- 1823-- 1825, &c. The following

is copy of the title-page. (The edition of 1823 is in Brewster's
Ferguson's Essays).

"An Introduction    to Electricity --in             SEilxecStreicctaiolnsM.achiIn. e.ElecItIrIi.citAy
in General. II. A
                    Description of the

Description of the Apparatus    (belonging to the   MifacthhieneM) acfohrinmeakbe
ing Electrical Experiments.
                               IV. How to know

in good order for performing the Experiments, and how to put it in

order if it be not. V. How to make the Electrical Experiments,
and to preserve Buildings from Damage by Lightning. VI.
Medical Electricity. Illustrated with Copper-plates. By James
f erguson, F.R.S. London : Printed for VV. Strachan and T. Oadell
in the Strand, mdcci.xx. Price 4s."

    Plate 1 exhibits the surface of a large table containing a
variety of apparatus. On one end of it is fixed a Globe Elec

trical Machine, with multiplying motion -- in front are three
large Leyden Phials,-- A Florence-flask, -- A Thunder-house --
and the Conductor is furnished with " A ring of bells,"-- Pith-
balls, -- Star Wheel, --Attraction Plates, -- Feathers, -- Spichar,

&c., probably the same machine and apparatus which he bought
from Mr. Nairne, Optician, &c., Cornhill. Plate 2. View of the
works and Dial-face of an Electrical Clock. ---An Electrical

Wheel-work Orrery. -- A Mill. -- Toothach instrument, &c. Plate
3. View of an Electrical Triple-pump.270

269 A Rotula -- in the autograph of Ferguson -- similar to that described, is in
the possession of William Topp, Esq., Ashgrove, near Elgin, who kindly sent
us a copy of it.
   270 We            a beautifully-executed  Indian-ink drawing, by Ferguson,
entitled   "  have                           with a new Electrometer.                                  In
                    Electrical Machine,
              An               in Aldersgale Street, London;" and in the lower
            Mr. John Lane
vented by     corner of the    drawing we    find,   '*/. Ferguson, Delin." -- also                    a
right-hand  out of card -- it  has 45 teeth  most   accurately cut into -- likewise
wheel cut a
                                                                                                        it,
                                                                                                                                                 a
trundle  wheel of 15 cogs, with three cranks        formed on   its axis, which   appears
to have  formed part of Ferguson's Electrical        Apparatus  -- probably part    of the

model of mill, or electrical pump models.
372 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   As just observed, Section VI. of this work is devoted to
" Medical Electricity." Ferguson, after describing several curi

ous cases and experiments performed on the subject, says,
I" For my oum part, being but a young electrician,
                                                                 can have very
Ilittle to say uith respect to the. Medical part. But, as far as have
Ihad experience,      shall here relate the facts." (Ferguson's Electri

city, p. 120).

   In this medical section, several curious cases arc related. The
following refer to himself and his wife :--

  I" was once, at Bristol, seized with a sore throat, so that
I could not swallow anything. Mr. Adlam, of that city, who

is a fine electrician, came and drew many electric sparks

from my throat, and in about half an hour after, he did the

same again. He staid with me about an hour longer, and
before he went away, I could both eat and drink without pain ;
Iand had no return of that disorder.
                                                   have relieved several per

sons in such cases, but never in so short a time as Mr. Adlam

cured me."        (Electricity, p. 125).           " One         time  my wife  hap
   Referring      to his wife's case, he says,
Ipened to scald her wrist by boiling water.
                                                                 set her upon the

glass-footed stool directly, and took sparks from the wrist.

In a short time I found the redness of the skin (occasioned by
the scald) begin to disappear, and she felt immediate relief. A

linen bandage was then put round her wrist, and in a few hours

Iafter, repeated the operation, which entirely cured her, and

there was not the least blister on the skin, nor any difference in

its colour from what it had before the accident. If it had not

been taken immediately, and before a blister had risen, perhaps

electrifying would have been of little or no service." (Electri

city, pp. 130, 131).
   This concise treatise has been long out of print, and is now

seldom to be seen.

Lecture on Electricity. -- In the Catalogue of his Ap-

In looking over one of our old Catalogues we observe several articles of
Ferguson's Electrical Apparatus, which belonged to a Mr. Desormraux, probably
bought by him at Mr. Ferguson's public sale, ill March, 1777. Mr. Desnrmeaux's
property was sold by public auction by Messrs. .Iordan and Maxwell at their
Rooms,   No.           Strand, on 12th March, 1806. In the Catalogue, is the fol
lowing  Lot:  --33"1  A Set of Ferguson's Electrical Apparatus, consisting of Sundry
Models
        of Mills       and Pump-work, with an electrical model of an Astronomical
Clock, Showing    the nature    of an    Eclipse,  and pointing  out the Moon's age and the
Tides-- this Lot
                  sold for ill    17s.'
                 JAMES FERGUSON.                                        373

paratus, appended to Tables and Tracts, given at pages 344

--347, it will be observed that his Vllth Lecture is on the
Armillary Sphere, Dialling, &c. To the "Introduction to

Electricity," he appends a similar list, with this exception,

that the apparatus pertaining to Lecture VII. is omitted, and a
Lecture on Electricity substituted, thus--

" An Electrical Machine,        VII.

                          with such an apparatus to it as is described
in this Treatise." (Ferguson's Introduction to Electricity. Loud.,
1770, p. 138). See list of apparatus in foregoing notice.

   From this we learn that Ferguson, sometime between the
publication of his " Tables and Tracts," in 1767, and that of
" Introduction to Electricity," in 1770, began to lecture on Elec

tricity. It will be recollected that he purchased an Electrical

Machine and Apparatus from Mr. Nairne, Cornhill, London, in
1761, and it might have been expected he should, long before

1767 -- 1770, have added the subject of Electricity to his Course.

(See page 262).

   Bridge Building. -- The numerous notices already given of

Ferguson's multifarious writings and inventions, show, that his
mind was always ready to turn to anything and everything use
ful or curious.

   In the present case, he leaves wheels and pinions, clocks and

orreries, for Bridges and Bridge Building.

   At the end of his MS. " Common Place Book," he gives a large

pen-and-ink representation of a plan invented by him, about
1770, for building bridges "without Frames under the Arches."

Oil the top of the sketch the following is written :--

      " A new method of building a Stone Bridge, without any support
       ing Frames under the Arches ; and so, that any single Arch shall
      support itself without Abutments at the ends; and would not fall if
       part of the top of it was cut out. Invented by James Ferguson."

   A cut of the bridge will not be required, as the following
extract from his short description of it will be sufficient to show
how he proposes to construct his bridge, --

      " When the Piers are finished, begin with laying the first stone of
       each side of the Arch a little way over its Pier, and cover the Pier
       with stones to the same level, then lay the next higher stone of the
       Arch a little way over the first one, and go on, as before, till you
374 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Ifinish the Arch at top.  never  saw nor heard of anything of this
                                 Place Book," p. 275 (Col. Lib.
kind before." MS. "Common

Edin.).

   From this short note, the reader will see that the arches of

such a bridge would have an odd appearance, and would some
what resemble the crow steps on the gable-end of a house.
Blackfriar's Bridge, London, near Ferguson's residence in Fleet
Street, was opened in 1770, and it is probable that it was while
the complex frames used in the construction of this bridge were
being removed that led Ferguson to design one that could be
built " without any supporting Frames under the Arches."

   Ferguson's Perpetual Motion Scheme. -- An old note in

forms us that, " between the years 1760 and 1780, London
abounded with Perpetual Motion-seekers and their public Ex
hibitions." Ferguson himself, a mechanician and inventor,

would, no doubt, visit many of them, and would see "schemes
ingenious, curious, and specious." He did not believe it pos

sible to produce perpetual motion by any contrivance which
required the motive power to be within itself (all external
agents, such as that of a never-failing stream ; the ever varying
pressure of the atmosphere, &c., being ignored); yet, notwith
standing that, we find him, in 1770, devising a plan for per

petual motion.
   In his " Common Place Book," we find a fine pen-and-ink

drawing of his scheme, which he designates as " the most ra

tional scheme" but at same time declares it to be "downright

nonsense'' At the conclusion of his description of it he writes,
" Whoever makes it will find that it is                    ;" from
this, it may be inferred that the machine  a mere Balance  -- never
                                           was never made

having had any other existence than that on paper.
   The following is a copy of the drawing and description from

the " Common Place Book."
   Annexed to the drawing, in the left hand corner at top, Fer

guson writes as introductory to it--

" This is the most rational Scheme for a Perpetual Motion, which,
notwithstanding, is downright nonsense."
                       JAMES FEIIGUSON.                                 375

                "J. Ferguson, iuv. et delin., Sept. G, a.d. 1770."

Description. -- " The axle at A is placed horizontally, and the

Spokes B, C, D, &c, turn in a vertical position. They are joint

ed at a, t, u, &c, as a common Sector and to each of themit is,
                                                                    is 7,
fixed Frame as R,      S,        &c., in which the weights                8,
b
                          T,                                                a 9,
         a                                                                          1,
                            I                                                          2, is

                                   kB
                                       it
&c., have liberty to move. When any spoke as D, in hori

zontal position, the weight in falls down, and pulls the part

of the then vertical spoke straight out,           I. by     means of cord
going over the pulleys K and to the weight                          is by
                                                             The spoke   a

was pulled straight out before, when was vertical,                           C

                                                                                    c
                                                                    means

of the weight   4, 2,  belonging to the spoke      E         which in the

                                                         e,

horizontal position    5,        and so of all the others on the right

                         6D
                             ;d
hand. But, when these spokes come about to the left hand,

their weights          fall back, and cease pulling the parts

J,              so that the spokes then bend at their joints X,         y,
                                                                             z,
     g,
            h,

          ;i

and the balls at their ends como nearer the centre A, all on the
37tJ EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

left side. Now, as the balls or weights at the right hand side are

further from the centre A than they are on the left, it might be

Isupposed that this machine would turn round perpetually.

have shown it to many who have declared it would ; and yet for

all that, whoever makes will find to be only a mere Balance.
                                  it,       it
a1  leave them to find out the reason." p.       is
     " Common Place Book," 254.

    " To find out the reason "--or to show, why his machine would

  not continue in motion, nothing more necessary than to draw

    line from to (bisecting the centre) and then will become                                                    it
  evident that there are, and always would be, more weight below
            Z
                   Z              To have gained Perpetual Motion, the
                             it.
the line than above

  very reverse of this ought to have been the constant condition

  of the machine.

     Elected a Member of the American Philosophical So
  ciety. -- During the summer of 1770, he was elected
  member of the American Philosophical Society -- an honour
            It
  unanimously conferred on him
                                                       by
                                                              a

                                                                                                             a
                                            that body, in consequence of

  their high opinion of his works, and of his success and celebrity

  as a public lecturer.

     New Terms for Reading his Course of Twelve Lec
  tures. -- will be remembered that we have already given

  a copy of Ferguson's terms for reading his Course of Lectures

  in, and at certain distances from, London (under date 1767).
  He this year, 1770, publishes, on the last leaf of his
  " Introduction to Electricity,"
                                            new set of terms. For

  the same distances of 1767, he in 1770 solicits a greater

  number of subscribers --an indication that he now believed his

  success and reputation would secure the larger as easily as he

  before secured the smaller number of persons to attend his lec

  tures. The following are the new terms alluded to.

  In 767, ill London, before beginning to lecture, there must be 20 subscribed
                    at Guinea each.

  In 1770, there must be 30 subscribers at Guinea each.
    1
                         a
                                                                                 a
                                                                                                             a
  In 1767, within 10 miles of London, 30 subscribers at                                                         Guinea each.
                                                                                                                   do.
  In 1770,  do.          do. 40 do.

  In 1767, within 100 miles of London, 60   do.                                                                 do.
                                            do.                                                                 do.
  In 1770,  do.          do. 80
JAMES FERGUSON.  377

   The difference iu the increase demanded in 1770 would pay
the costs attendant on delivering his Course of Lectures, and
leave him with at least as much as the nett proceeds of the
lesser number. (Vide Tables and Tracts. Lond., 1767, pp.
327, 328, and compare with " Introduction to Electricity," p.
140 ; also under date 1767 of this work).

                                                      1771.

   Death of James Glashan (Ferguson's old Master and
Patron). -- In entering into this year, we have to record the
death of James Glashan, Farmer, Ardneedlie, near Keith, on
9th January ; the news of whose death, on reaching Ferguson,

would occasion him much sorrow. The good old man is now
gone, but his good deeds live after him. Ferguson remembers
them, and as it were, with a golden pen writes them down in
his Memoir for the admiration of future generations. (See note
14, pp. 14, 15, &c.)

   The Reverend Mr. Annaud, the present minister of Keith,
kindly forwarded the following inscription copied from Mr.
Glashan's tombstone :--

   "James Glashan was born 11th December 1686, and died
9th January 1771, in the 85th year of his age."

   On the Velocities of Falling Bodies, and on Apparent
and True Levels. -- The following are copies of two papers, by

Ferguson, which we, in 1831, copied from the original belong
ing to Deaue Walker, Esq., London ; both are written on a sheet
of foolscap, and dated 1771.

    " 1st, Of the Velocities acquired by falling Bodies, and
           the Spaces they fall through in given Times.

   In successive equal parts of time, as 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, &c, the spaces

through which a body falls are as 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, &c, and the
acquired velocities are as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, Sec., continually; so that
the velocities are as the times, and the spaces are as the squares
of the times in falling.

    Thus, in the first second of time (from the instant of begin
ning to fall) the body will fall through 1C feet; in the next second
it will fall through three times 16, or 48 feet, which added to
the former 16 makes 64 feet, the whole space fallen through in

                                                       3B
378 EXTENDED MEMOIK OF

2 seconds of time ; in the third second of time, the body falls 5

times 16, or 80 feet, which added to 64 makes 144 feet, the

whole space fallen through in 3 seconds ; in the fourth second it

falls 7 times 16, or 112 feet, which added to 144 feet, makes

256, the whole space fallen through in 4 seconds ; in five seconds
it falls 9 times 16, or 144 feet, which added to the 256 feet,

makes 400 feet the whole space fallen through in 5 seconds ;

and so on continually, increasing as the odd numbers 1, 3, 5, 7,

9, 11, in 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, seconds of time.

    Whatever velocity the body acquires at the end of the first
second, it will acquire twice as much at the end of the next,

three times as much at the end of the third, four times as

much at the end of the fourth, five times as much at the end

of the fifth second, and so on continually.

   In the following Table, the numbers under T denote the

seconds of time, from 1 to 60, in which the body continues to

fall : the numbers under S denote the spaces, in feet, through

which the body falls in any second from 1 to 60 : and the num
bers under N denote the whole number of feet the body falls

through, at the end of any number of seconds, from 1 to 60.

Thus, between the end of the 59th and 60th second, the body

falls 119 times 16 feet; and at the end of the 60th second it has

fallen through 57600 feet, or 10^ miles.
   In a quarter of a second from the instant of beginning to fall,

a body would fall one foot : at the end of half that second it will

have fallen 4 feet : at the end of three quarters of that second
it will have fallen through 9 feet : and at the end of that whole

second, through 16. The whole spaces fallen through being as

the squares of the times in which the body falls. Qu. -- How
many feet would it fall through in an hour?

   In 60 seconds the space is 57600 feet, and the square of 60
is 3600. But 57600 multiplied by 3600 is 207360000, the num

ber of feet the body would fall through in an hour, in a free or

unresisting  space ; and this number being divided    "byfor52t8h0e,
the number   of feet in an English mile quotes 39272

number of miles, or about ten times the diameter of the

Earth.
                     JAMES FERGUSON.   379

             Table of Fallinq Bodies.

TS     N TS N TS N T S N

1 1 Feet 16  16 31 4096 31 61 15376 46 91 33856

23     64    17 33 4624 32 63 16384 47 93 35344

35     144   18 35 5184 33 65 17424 48 95 36864

47     256   19 37 5776 34 67 18496 49 97 38416

59     4tX)  20 39 6400 35 69 19600 50 99 40000

6 11   576   21 41  7056 36 71 20736 51 101 41616

7 13   784   22 43 7744 37 73 21904 52 103 43264

8 15   1024  23 45 8464 38 75 23104 53 105 44944

9 17 ' 1296  24 47 9216 39 77 24336 54 107 46656

10 19  1600  25 49 10000 40 79 25600 55 109 48400

11 21  1936  26 51 10816 41 81 26896 56 111 50176

12 23  2304  27 53 11664 42 83 28224 57 113 51984

13 25  2704  28 55 12544 43 85 29584 58 115 53824

14 27  3136  29 57 13456 44 87 30976 59 117 55696

15 29  3600  30 59 14400 45 89 32400 60 119 57600

                                                       James Ferguson, London, 1771."
   See also " Common Place Book," p. 188; and " Select Mechani

cal Exercises," pp. 117 -- 120.

"2d, On the Height of the Apparent Level above the True.

                                                                         c

   In the above figure, let A B F be part of the Earth's Spheri
cal surface, C the Earth's centre, B C or F C its semi-diameter,
D B E a tangent to the Earth's surface at B, drawn perpendicu
lar to B C ; and G F H a tangent to the Earth's surface at F,
drawn perpendicular to F C. The line D B E is a true level at

B. But being carried on straight toward D or E, it rises above
the Earth's surface ; aud although it seems to be level as seen
from B, it is above the true level at F, by the whole height

F E ; for, at the point F, the tangent G F H is the true level.
380 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   At the distance of a geographical mile or 6094 feet, from the
point B, the line B D or B E will be 10 637 inches alwve the
globular surface of the Earth ; At two such miles from B, the

same line will be four times as high (or 3 feet 6'548 inches)
above the Earth's surface ; At three miles distance, nine times

as high (or 7 feet 11733 inches) above the Earth's surface;

f /and so on, always increasing in height according to the square

of the distance ; for, if F be twice the distance of from B,
F E must be four times as high as e, if both their tops touch

Ethe right line B e

   At the distance of an English mile, or 5280 feet, the appar

ent level is 7'90 inches higher than the true ; at two miles dis

tance, it is four times as high, or 2 feet 7'60 inches above the

true ; at three miles distance, nine times as high ; and so on,

increasing in proportion to the square of the distance.

   At the distance of a degree or 60 geographical miles, which

are equal to 694, English miles, the height of the apparent

level above the true is 3191 feet and ?6 parts of an inch. And
therefore, a hill, whose top was so far above the level of the

jsea, would be just seen at top by an eye at the surface of the

sea, and 69 English miles from the hill. --J. F, 1771."

    (See also  MS. "Common       Place Book,"  p.  249; and                                "Select
Mechanical     Exercises," pp.
                                115 -- 117).

Astronomical Clock. --Sometime in the year 1771, Fergu

son appears to have improved the model of Ellicott's Clock,

which he made in 1757, by adding wheel-work to it for pro

ducing an apparent revolution of the Moon, thereby rendering

it more useful and complete. In his " Common Place Book,"

in alluding to the model of 1757, he says,
       " To have this Clock complete, the apparent diurnal revolution of
      the Moon ought to be represented, and this I intend U> do God
       will be pleased to let me live) as soon as other absolutely necessary
       business will allow me to carry into execution."
               a
                             is
                                 a

                                          it

                                                       :

                                                                                      (if
He then gives rough sectional plan of his new arrangement,
                                copy --
of which the following

               Section of the Dial-wheels of New Astronomical Clock.
JAMES FERGUSON.                                            38 J

   By comparing this now arrangement with the plan of the clock
on page 221, it will be seen that the only difference in the works

consists in the present plan having three additional wheels for
producing the daily revolution of the Moon, viz. wheel A 61, B

57, and C 59. Wheel A of 61 teeth turns round in 24 hours,

to which is made fast wheel B of 57 teeth, turning round with

it in the same time ; this last wheel turns wheel C of 59 teeth

(the lowermost wheel in the central group) once round in 24
hours 50 minutes 31 seconds 35 thirds, the axis of which ascends

is it                       and on its top carries a hand, with

                     : is
                                                 it,

                                                    is
                                                        a
through the wheel above

a small Moon, round in the time just mentioned. From this

will be seen that wheels 57 and 59 are Ferguson's old fami

liar numbers, so often alluded to in this work. The rest of the

wheel-work described in pages 219 -- 222, to which the reader

   referred. The following                                 vertical plan or calibre of the

wheel-work --

Plan of the Dial wheels of New Astronomical Clock.

  Note. --The several concentric circles in the above plan,is

although of different sizes, represent respectively, wheels of the
same diameter. Thus, wheels 20 and 24 arc the same in
diameter; so are the wheels 73, 61, 59, and also the pair 57
and 61. See "Common Place Book,'" pp. 104, 105.

   Division of the Square. --The following curious illustration

of the Division and Sub-division of the Square, by Ferguson,
taken from his MS. " Common Place Book," and appears to have
been done in the year 1771.
382 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

 "A Square Divided and Subdivided into Halves, Quarters, Eighth Tarts, &c. '

  T

                        EXPLANATION.
l" Let A, B, C, D = (suppose 1 Square Yard of Cloth). Then
o=J; b~\; c=l; d=h ;                  J7=iin ^~vh\ !'= j1j
k = ldlf'> ^= 35*48 ! m = 4uV,
Now supposing unity to be divided in this manner, Query the
                                      f-TJff f 9J5 rr^
sum of the Series £4-^ ^
+3i?4!T+4iiW ' Answer.          tor the dark part (under mc)

which is not reckoned, but supposed to be wanting, is   part

of the whole A, B, C, D."

" Common Place Book," p. 59.

  Wheel-work for a Watch to make Four Beats in a
Second. -- Ferguson, in his " Common Place Book," has the fol

lowing calculations, &c, for a Watch to go 30 hours and make

four beats in a second. They appear to have been made some

time in the year 1771 :--
   " Calculation for a Watch that shall go just 30 Hours, and

make four beats in every second of time. The second wheel of
the Watch to go round in one Hour, and carry the Minute
                           JAMES FERGUSON.                                         383

Hand ; and the fourth (or contrate) wheel to go round in one
minute, and carry a hand for showing seconds.

   The fusee and first wheel must go round in four hours. This

wheel must have 48 teeth, and turn a pinion of 12 leaves, on
whose axis is the second wheel which has 60 teeth. This wheel

turns a pinion of 10 leaves, on whose axis is the third wheel of

60 teeth, which turns a pinion of 6 leaves, on whose axis is the

fourth (or contrate) wheel of 48 teeth, turning a pinion of 6
leaves, on whose axis is the Crown Wheel of 15 teeth, which

gives 30 beats in each revolution.
   Then, as the second wheel will go round in one hour, the

crown wheel will go 480 times round in an hour, and as it has

15 teeth, and makes 30 heats in each revolution, 30 times 480

will he 14490, the number of beats in an hour, which contains

3600 seconds; and 14400 divided by 3600, quotes 4, the num

ber of beats in one second.

    The Fusee must have 7£ turns in its Spiral, to let the chain
go so many times round it ; and as each turn is equal to 4 hours,

7£ turns are equal to 30, the number of hours that the watch
will go after it has been fully wound up.

   The whole calculation may be expressed as follows :--

                   48)12--60), 10--60), 6--48), 6--15.

   This stroke )   placed   between the Pinion and Wheels, shows
that the wheel     turns   the pinion; and this stroke -- between

any pinion and wheel, shows that the pinion and wheel are

upon one and the same axis. The numeral figures show the

numbers of teeth in the wheels, and                     the number of leaves       in
the pinions respectively.271                            James Ferguson."

    " Common Place Book," pp. 82, 83.

   Guthrie's Geographical Grammar. --During the summer

of 1771, we find Ferguson employed upon Guthrie's Geographi
cal Grammar, he having been engaged by the publisher, Mr.
Knox, of the Strand, to write the Astronomical part of that
work, and otherwise to revise it. The astronomical part, by

   2?l The above   ifsoltlhoewsoM:--way  of  arranging  wheel aml pinion numbers; the more
concise way is as
      xjgx&x-fo = laWfW anu 2078600                     =-r- 4820  480, that  is,  in one revolu

tion  of  the first mover 48, tue last mover of 15 teeth  turns 4S0 times          on=it1s44a0x0is0,
and   as  wheel 15 makes 30 beats in turning round        its axis, 480x30

beats, which wheel 15 makes in an hour, as by Ferguson.
384 KXTF.NDED MEMOIR OF

Ferguson, is an excellent epitome of the elements of Astronomy,
with the planetary distances, as deduced from the then late
transits of Venus. The following is an advertisement of this
work, which, as revised by Ferguson, appears to have been re

published about the end of the year 1771 :--
   " A Geographical, Historical, and Commercial Grammar,

showing the Present state of the Kingdoms of the World. By
William Guthrie. The Astronomical part by James Ferguson,

F.R.S. Published by J. Knox, of the Strand, London." 572

   Curious Calculations regarding the New Assembly
Room at Bath.573 --The following curious paper is taken from

the "Common Place Book." p. 185, and appears to have been

written about the end of the year 1771 :--
   "The Dimensions and Capacity of the New Assembly Room

at Bath. Length 105 Feet 8 Inches, Width 42 Feet 8 Inches.
Height 42 Feet 6 Inches. These numbers turned into Inches,
and multiplied into each other, give 331100160 for the number
of cubic inches of air in the Room ; which, being divided by 231

(the number of cubic inches in a wine gallon) quotes 1433334
for the number of gallons of air in the room when empty of
People. And as a gallon of air weighs 64 grains, and 5760
grains make a Troy Pound, the whole weight of air in the room
is 15926 Troy Pounds.

    From the above number of gallons let 4334 be subtracted, on

account of the space taken up by the Company and Candles ;
and there will remain 1429000 gallons of air for the company
to breathe, and the candles to burn. Now, each person consumes

a gallon of air in each minute in breathing, and so does each
candle every minute while it is burning.

    Supposing then, that there are 900 persons, and 100 candles,

in William Guthrie lan old friend of Ferguson) was born in Brechin in 1708.
He went to London in 1730. In 1746, a Government annuity of £200 was con
ferred on him for literary services rendered to the Pelham administration. In

1765 he published his "Geographical, Historical, and Commercial Grammar,"
the 24th edition of which was published in 1818. In 1767 he published his
"History     of Scotland." He      died   in London   on 9th March, 1770,
(Black's  "  History of Brechin,"    pp.  137, 138).                           aged 62.
                                                      find that " the New     Assembly
273 On referring to a Bath Guide-book, we

Rooms at the east end of the Circus were opened       for the reception  "of  Company m
October 1771, Richard Tyson, Esq., Master of          the Ceremonies.         The dimen
                        "Guide" are preciselv the same
sions given  "in   the                                  as noted         by   Ferguson.
(Cruthvells       New   Bath Guide,' for 1790,'p. 21).
                           JAMES FEKGUSON.                                   385

in the room, which in all make 1000 ; they will require 1000
gallons of air per minute to keep them alive.

   Divide 1429000 by 1000 and , the quotient will be 1429
minutes, or 23 hours 49 minutes for the time the company and
candles might live in the room if all the doors and windows
were so close shut as to admit no fresh air ; and at the end of

that time all the candles would go out, and all the company would
die. Hence, each person would lose ^^V'-h part of his life each
minute while he was there, if no fresu air was admitted." 274

Pyramidal Table Clock.- --The following calculations and

details of the astronomical part of a curious pyramidal or rather
pagoda-formed Table Clock, is taken from the " Common Place
Book.'" They appear to have been written in 1771. The details

in the MS. are accompanied by a very fine drawing in Indian

ink of the outside appearance of the Clock. Ferguson says,

" It was given me by a Nobleman, quite out of order, much broke, and

in several detached pieces ; so that it cost me  much    labour  and pains to put
                                                 of the  inside  work so very bad,
all the parts of it together, and I found much
as had made it impossible that over it could have gone, so as to come within
Ian hour of the truth in 24 hours ; and was always apt to stop. These parts
   threw away,   and had   new work put in place of them;  inandmynorwoomit .g--oeJsamveersy
well, and it is  a pretty  ornamental piece of furniture
Ferguson."

    " Calculations of the Astronomical part of my Brass Clock
with four Faces, which strikes the Hours and Quarters; Shows

the Hours and Minutes, the Moon's Age and Phases, the mo

tions and Places of the Sun and Moon, and nodes of the Moon's

orbit, with the days of all the New and Full Moons and
Eclipses, --

8 hours \.r>7 = The Sun's diurnal motion in 24 hours.

Pinion 19/59=The Moon's daily motion in 24 h. 50£ minutes, and from
                             Change to Change in 29J; days.

                           59 = The Sun's motion round the Ecliptic in 3tio d. 5 h. 43 m.
59)40--4)2(3 21)5g = The retrograde motion of the nodes round the Eclip

                                              tic in 18$ years.

   A pinion of 19 leaves is turned, by the Clock movement,
round in 8 hours. This pinion takes into two wheels, one of

which has 57 teeth, and the other 59. The wheel 57 carries a

Sun round a Dial-plate in 24 hours, and on that plate the 24

hours are engraved.

   :!"» We may here remark that each  person  would lose text at first, aml  more at
                                      3C
last, than jjrsjth purt.
386 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

The wheel of 59 teeth carries the Moon round from the
XIImeridian
             on the Dial-plate to the same again in 24 h.

50j m., and from the Sun to the Sun again in 29 days 12 hours.

On the wheel of 59 teeth is fixed a small wheel of the same

number, and concentrical with                                  which small wheel turns a
                                                           is it,
                                                                         is

                                                                                    4
wheel of 40 teeth, on whose axis a pinion of leaves, turning

wheel of 26 teeth, on the axis of which a pinion of 21 leaves
a
          d.turning two wheels, one of which has 59 teeth and the other 56.

                 5;The last wheel of 59 carries a Star-Plate with the Ecliptic
                   h.
                                         ;and its Signs, 366 times round in 365 days hours 43 minutes
                                                           it is                                              ;
                                                                              5

                                                                             is
                                                                                              65
so that, as the Sun goes 365 times round in a year, from the

meridian to the meridian again, and the Ecliptic 366 times

round in the year, the Sun's place shifted every day in the

Ecliptic so as to go quite round                               in 365 days hours 43

minutes but in nature, the Sun goes round the Ecliptic in

365 49 m. so that the Sun's motion only minutes

too slow, in the Clock, in year.
                                               a

The wheel of 56 teeth (turned by the above-mentioned Pinion

of 21 leaves) carries the nodes of the Moon's orbit backward

round the Ecliptic in 18| years, which very near the truth.
   The wheel of 40 teeth, with its pinion of leaves, and wheel
                                                               is
                                                                       4

of 26 teeth (turned by that pinion) with its pinion of 21 teeth,

are hung upon the wheel of 57 teeth, which goes round in 24
hours." " Common Place Book," 90.
                                                           p.

Another Ancient Clock. -- In the "Common Place Book," we

have a description and fine Indian-ink drawing of an ancient

clock which he got in present from Mr. Mudge, Watchmaker,
                                            a

London, in 1771. On beginning his description he says,

" About five years ago, my good friend Mr. Thomas Mudge, Watchmaker
              made me                       a present of   an old German Clock, bearing
in London,  shows Solar                      and Sidereal   time; the motions of the Sun            date a.d.
                                                                                                  and Moon
15fi0. It
through the Ecliptic, with the Moon's Phases; The times of the rising and
setting of the Sun and Moon, and several of the most remarkable stars But
                                                                                       2
                                                                                                           ;
the Moon's motion far from being as exact in as in mine; The Moon re
             is                                                is

volves in 29 days 15 ho. 37 m. 52 s., which                        it
                                                               too slow by ho. 53 m. 4!) s.
in each Lunation, and will therefore require that the Moon be set forward

in the Ecliptic, or according to the order of the Signs, 19 degrees always on
the first of January.''

   The sidereal train in this Clock similar to that of Fergu   is

son's own train. At the conclusion of his long description he           :
makes the following curious observation --
                                 JAMES FERGUSON.                                                              387

    I" confess that 1 was very glad to find I had hit upon the same sort
Iof motions in a Clock, as had been done 215 years ago; but of which knew
Inothing till had seen this Clock ; and it is abundantly plain, that by com
Iparing the wheel-work and numbers of teeth in this and mine, have not

(and indeed could not have) taken the hint from this ancient German.
                                                                   London, Jan. \st, 177<i.
                                                                                Jambs Ferguson."

    Common Place Book, p. 136.

Astronomical Clock. -- In the end of December, 1771, Fer

guson invented an Astronomical Clock for showing, by means of

a moveable horizon, the daily rising and setting of the Sun. In

his " Common Place Book," he has pen-and-ink drawings of the

Dial-face and wheel- work, along with a short description of them,

which is initialed and dated, thus,

                                   "J. F.

                                       Bur. 30«A, 1771."

Under the drawing of the Dial-face is written,
  " A Clock Showing the Hours, Minutes, the Day of the Month, and
  the time of the Sun's Rising and Setting every Day in the Year, by
  means of a Moveable Horizon in the Arch at Top."

    The drawing of the wheel-work of this Clock is very complex.

It does not appear that he ever made it. On January 1st, 1773,
he appends the following note to his description :--

I" On second thoughts, find                                             may be carried

J.cution by a much less number                                             F., Jan. 1st,
                                                othfiswhsecehlesm. --e                     into exe
                                                                                          1773."275

                                                       "Common Place Book," pp. 100, 101.

                                                      1772.it,

   Plaidalli's Perpetual Motion. -- As already mentioned,is

there were in London, about this period, several exhibitions of

pretended "perpetual motions" --few excited so great interest

as that of Plaidalli's, which consisted of a glass globe moving on a
vertical axis ; and along with two balancing arms of brass pro

ceeding from its upper pole, -- the whole was inclosed within a

275 The principal part of this Clock its annual train, which results in 365
days exactly. The wheel, which goes once round in this time, has pin near its
                                                                                a
                                                                                             aa

                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                          is

                                                                                                                     6
circumference, on which the central part of the moveable horizon rests, and by
caused to rise and fall in the arch of                 the  dial-plate, where                          hand re
it                                                          derived from 21     housersc,o--ndvairzy.     pinion

    7
       a
                              7
volves in  24 hours. The         a2n4nhuoaul rstr=ain1
of leaves   turns round in                              is
                                                       day, and turns a wheel of 35 teeth, which
        pinion of leaves          that turns a  wheel       of 42       teeth,
has       which turns a          wheel of 73    teeth        once       round   which    has      p--inioorn   of
leaves                                                                           in 365    days,              thus,

JsXfix-f5 = "rsWns 107810-5-294                        365 days. Several unnecessary wheels arc
introduced for transmitting motion from one part to another. In the transmis
sion of motion three whccls are used, which we find could be as cffoctually done
by one wheel.
388 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

spacious bull-shaped glass cover to keep the instrument from being

touched. Its inventor gave out that the globe and balances

turned round by virtue of the power of Electricity, and it was

kept in continual motion. For a considerable length of time it
was " a great ptizzle" Ferguson went to see
                                                                   I                                   carefully in

spected  it,   and, like the many who had preceded him, came            it it,
            it
away from puzzled too. Referring to the matter in his " Com

mon Place Book," where he has a drawing and description of

it,  he says,

      "On Monday, March 9th, 772, went to see Plaidalli's machine. Its
                                           I1
                                                          1

                                                       II
      glass globe and balance were turning round when went into the

      room, and continued turning while staid there, which was rather
      more than an hour. Plaidalli, the inventor, told me had been

      going for five months.               confess am altogether at a loss to ac
      count for this constant motion of the globe, but have no opinion
      that Electricity the cause of its motion; and do at present con
         it
                                                                see the reason why mine
                   a
                       ;

                               is
      sider as very ingenious deception.                     II
      cannot move but the other moves and cannot see the reason of
                                                                  James Ferguson."
      its motion.-'

   Shortly after Ferguson's visit, Plaidalli's " perpetual motion "
was discovered to be a deception --showing that Ferguson was
right in his conjecture.276 Regarding the " discovery of the
deception," he has another entry in his " Common Place Book,"

viz.

      " March Kith, 1772; am now convinced that was right in con
                                   I                              I

                                                                                is
                                                                                  it
                                                                                                         a
      sidering Plaidalli's Scheme deception, for such indeed is, and
                                           a

      very ingenious one           it      too. The cause of its motion found out,
                                       is

      and Electricity had no hand in it.                          James Ferguson."
                                              " Common Place Book," pp. 255, 256.

     Maze or Labyrinth. -- In his latter years, Ferguson appears

to have exercised his ingenuity on great variety of subjects.
                                                             a

The following copy of his Maze, distich, and description ac
                     it, is
companying                 which appears to have been drawTi sometime
early in 1772. (Extracted from " Common Place Book," 119.
                                                                                                            p.

                                   " Maze or Labyrinth.
                                   A

               " Into      this Labyrinth     one may        go;  know. --J.                           F."
                 But,      how to get out     he never       may

2"6 The past history of l'erpctual Motion Seekers                                                      history of perpetual
               it
                     is

                          a
                                                      a

                                                                  is
                                                                                    is
                                                                                                    a
failures, and may be safely predicted, that all the ellbrts of the seekers in the
present day, as well         as in all time  to come, will end in like                                 results -- in nothing.
The aged seeker               sad spectacle  -- he the representative                                  of misspent time--

hns through life been in pursuit of phantom, and now grown old without having
effected anything; or as Cowper has it,
                             " Dropping lmckets into empty wells,
                             Ann grown old in tirawinii nothing up."
JAMES FERGUSON.  389

   " In this Labyrinth the dark curved lines denote so many

Walls or high Hedges, the white spaces between them are the

Walks. A is the entrance into the Labyrinth ; and B is a round

Pond of water, from which twelve Walks go off. If a person

goes into such a Labyrinth, he must go once round before he
can come to the Pond ; and then, if he turns off abruptly into
either of the eleven other Walks, he may wander on and never

know how to get out again. But, if he takes such a particular
notice of the "Walk a, from the Pond, so as to know it from all

the rest, or hat; a magnet-needle, and takes its bearing from the

Pond, he may by that means find his way out. --James Fergu

son, inv. et delin."

   In Common Place Book, on same page, there is a pen-and-ink
sketch of another " Maze or Labyrinth," similar to the above,
but not so intricate, --annexed to which are the two following
lines :--

                       " Into this Labyrinth one may go
                         And the way out he may easily know."
390 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   Lectures in Derbyshire. -- In the autumn of 1772, we

find him delivering his usual Course of Twelve Lectures on
Experimental Philosophy and Astronomy, to large audiences,
in Derby, and other neighbouring towns. During his sojourn,
he visited the Peak District, and took notes of its many
wonders. The Devil's Cave appears to have interested him
strongly, as he soon afterwards wrote a description of which
was read before the Royal Society on November Kith, 1772,
and was shortly afterwards published in the form of a Tract,
entitled,

          " Description of the Devil's Cave at Castleton in Derbyshire."
                                                       (Vide also Universal Magazine, vol. 17).

   Success of Ferguson's Works --Astronomy -- Lectures on
Select Subjects on Mechanics, and Introduction to As
tronomy. -- During the year 1772, the fifth edition of 'Astro
nomy, Explained upon Sir Isaac Newton's Principles," was
published, being the fifth edition in 16 years. The "Lectures
on Select Subjects in Mechanics, &c, also went to press,
being the fourth edition in 12 years; besides a new edition of
" An Easy Introduction to Astronomy for Young Gentle
men and Ladies," being the third in the space of years --proofs

of the great demand for, and popularity of, these works.
A
                                                                                         it,

a

             :

                                             a
                                                                4

                                                          is
Trisection of the Angle. -- Ferguson, in his "Common

Place Book," has pen-and-ink sketch of method, with brief
directions, showing how the famous problem, " Trisection of the

Angle," may be solved, approximately, which appears to have

been suggested to him in 1772. The following                       copy of the

drawing and directions --

" Simple Mechanical Way for Trisecting an Anglo."
JAMES FERGUSON.             391

   "Let E C D be the given angle which is required to be tri
sected. Draw the right line D CG at pleasure, and about the
angular point C describe the semicircle H F E D ; then stick a
fine pin in the point E, and, on the edge of a Ruler G F E I,
from the end G, set off G F equal to the radius C E, making a
mark on the edge of the Ruler at F. This done, lay the edge
of the Ruler to the pin E, and keeping the end-corner G always
on the line G H C D, slide the Ruler on the pin till the mark
F be in the semicircle. Then stop the Ruler in that position,
and from F draw the right line F C ; and the angle F C H shall
be equal to a third part of the given angle E C D, as was re

quired."

    "Common Place Book," p. 192.

   Meridian Line. -- In several of his works, Ferguson shows
how to find a meridian line. In his Common Place Book he

has a pen-and-ink projection of a new method for finding one,
by Mr. Aubcrt, done in 1774 ; and as it is perhaps the most
correct of his methods, we give it a place, along with his short

description appended to it.

   " A sure and easy way of finding a true Meridian, by Alex

ander Aubert, Esq., of Austin Friars, London. '2'7

" See note 2f>(i, p. 32fi.
392 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   Let * be a star going round the North Pole P, in the circle
e a b g, according to the order of the letters, and passing over
the Meridian P Z S, a little to the north of the zenith Z. When
the Star is at a the line Z a c of its Azimuth is at rest, being
then a Tangent at a to the circle in which it moves. Let the
Star's Altitude be then observed, and the instant of time by a
good Pendulum Clock be noted. When the Star has passed the
Meridian, watch its Altitude till you find it the same at b as it
was at a, and note the time exactly by the Clock ; and then the
Azimuth line Z b d of the Star will be at rest again. Divide
the interval of time between the two equal Altitudes at a and
b by 2, and it gives the instant of time when the Star passes
the Meridian. Or the Azimuthal points c and d being ascer
tained, the angle c Z </ is found, which being bisected in the

point N, draw NZS (which will pass through the Pole P) and

you will have a true Meridian Line.
   As a star that passes over the meridian near the Zenith

changes its Altitude very fast, its Altitude may be taken when
it is but a very little way from the Meridian, either East or
West ; and consequently, its apparent Altitude will not be affect
ed sensibly." (" Common Place Book," p. 131).

   Ten Squares increasing by Unity. -- The following was

drawn and written sometime in the year 1772, and is from the

original in Ferguson's autograph in our possession. It is entitled,

    " Ten Squares, whose areas from the first to the last gradu

ally increase by unity.

                  2.6*5  2 828  3.090
                     C       H
a.oog , 2.gI0                          K

               r

   Thus, in any measure, if the area of A be 1, the area of B is '1 ;
the area of C is 3 ; the area of D is 4 ; t he area of E is 5, and so on.

    The numbers underneath each square, express the length of
the side of each square, against which they are placed ; and they
are the square roots of the areas respectively.

                                                          James Ferguson.

                                                                                          London, 1772."

    (Vide also " Common Place Book," p. 190).
                                     JAMES FERGUSON.

   A Line appearing of the same length, although viewed
FROM DIFFERENT stations. --This curious problem is taken from

the original diagram and explanation of date November 1774
(in the possession of Dawson Turner, Esq., Yarmouth, in 1836).

   " To place a right Line so as that it shall appear of the same
length if viewed from different points of distance.

   Let A B C be a given straight line, whose extremities A and

C touch the periphery of a Circle. If this Line be viewed from
any point of the circle between A and C, in the part A D E F

G H C, it will always appear of the same length, because it will

be seen under an angle of the same measure.

Thus, if the eye be at D, the line will be seen under the angle
IfA D C, whose measure is the arc A b.
                                                                     the eye be at E, the

line will be seen under the angle A E C, whose measure is the
arc c d. If the eye be at F (still farther off), the line will be
seen under the angle A F c, whose measure is the arc ef; and
so on if seen from any point between F and C.

These arcs A b, c  <l,                 being all made with the same

                     fe,

                           g
                                 h,
                                  C
                                   i,

opening of the compasses, will be all found of equal lengths                          by

measurement which shows, that all the angles they measure;

are equal. If the given line ABC be equal to the radius

of the Circle, will be seen under an angle of 30 degrees by an
             it

eye placed in any point of the periphery of the Circle, in the
                  H C.                                               James Ferguson.
part  A  DE F

               G

(Vide also " Common Place Book,"                                 p.           London, Novr. 1774."
                                                                     244).
                                                              D
                        3
394 EXTENDED MEM01K OF                                                                                                                                                                                             it,

  Time Table for Regulating Clocks and Watches. -- In

the year 1772, Ferguson computed a Table for regulating

Clocks and Watches --the following is copy of along with the

explanatory remarks appended (taken from the original in the
possession of the late Mr. Upcott, Islington, London).

      " A Sidereal Table for Reoulatino Clocks and Watches.

Rev. Days. H.                          M                                   Th IV. V.                                                 6 3 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (1 O H  M. 8. Th. rv. V.
                                                 8 4 8.
987 65 43 2 1                  23                     .-,<;                  ti (I 6                                   29                                                                                  11 > 3  55 53 59 31
         9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 (l  23                                                    6 6 5 5 4 1 3 3 2 2 1 1 (i (l 58
                               23                     52                   12                                                                                                                                      51 47 59              8642
                               23                     48 12                18                                         27
                               23                     44 16                24                                         56                                                                                           47 41 58 33
                               23                     40 20                30                                          25
                               23                     36 24                36                                           54                                                                                 15 43 35 58
                               23                     32 28                42                                           23
                               23                     28 32                48                                           52                                                                                 19 39 29 57 35
                               23                                          54                                           21
                               23,                            36                                                      50                                                                                   23 35 23 57
                                                      2d 41                12                                           19
                               23                     Hi 45                18                                         48                                                                                   27 31 17 56 37
                               23,                    12 49                24                                           17
                                                                           30                                         46                                                                                   31 27             5 11  56
                               23                              53          36                                           15
                               23      1 4 8 21                57          42                                           44                                                                                 35 23                   55 39
                               11                 9 51                     48                                           13
 10      1011                  11                                          54                                           42                                                                                 39 18 59 55 10
  11                           11                                                                                       11
         12                    22                                          12                                         40                                                                                   43, 14 53 54 41
  12     13                    11                                          IN                                  111
         14                    11                                          24                                  1O 38                                                                                       47 in 47 54 12
  13     15                    11                                          30
         16                    11                                          36                                  11 36                                                                                       51 41 53 43'_» ti
  14     17                    11                                          42                                  12                                                                                          55 3,5 53 14
         18                    11                                          48                                  12 34
  16     19                    11                                          54                                  13                                                                                          58 58 29 52 45
  16    2(>                    11                                                                              13 32                                                                                       6 j
  17    21                     11                     57                   32                                  14                                                                                                  54 23 52 16
        11                     11                     53                   38                                  14 30
  18    23                     22                     49                     60                                19 211                                                                                              50 17 51 47
         1                     21                     45                              9 !l 8 8                 24 In                                                                                       in 46
  1!)    ,i:<                  2(i                    41              13                                       48 211                                                                                                        1     51 18
 20      26                     17                    37              17                                       36 40                                                                                                           51
 21                                                   33,             22                                       25 ii                                                                                       14 42                   50 49
 22      28                     Id                    29              26                                       54
 23      29                                           25              30                                       56 25                                                                                       18 3,7 59 50 20
 24      39                                           21              34                                       56 54
 25      4!)                                          17              3S                                                  13579                                                                            22 33 53 49 51
 26      99                                           13              42
  27   199                                                            46                                                                                                                                   26 2il 47 49 22
  28   299                                               ->           50
       359                                                            51                   I1                                                                                                              30 25 41 48 53
  29   304                                                            58
 30    365                                                                                                                                                                                                 34 21 35 48 24
 40
 50                                                                                                                                                                                                        38 17 29 47 55
100                                                                                                                                                                                                        42 13 23, 47 26

2(H)                                                                                                                                                                                                       46 17 46 57
300                                                                                                                                                                                                                3 9 1 59
360    'J7                                                 59                                                                                                                                              5(1 11 46 28
365                                                               41 3
366                                                                                                                                                                                                        54 45 59
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5

                                                                               1 0 0 (I 0                                                                                                                  57 56 59 45 30

                                                      22                                                                                                                                                   37 15 59 in 40
                                                      13
                                                      26              25                                                                                                                                   16 31 59 35 511
                                                      53                                                                                                                                                   3,3, 59 11 411
                                                      211             50
                                                      24              4li                                                            13 19 58 23 211
                                                                      30                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                      36
                               o 0 n4                                 56                                                             19 39 29 57 35                                                                                      11 0

                                                                                                                          tI         23 35 23 57                                                                                   3 36

                                                      11                                                                             23 55 27 35
                                                                0
                                                                                                                                     23 58 59 21                                                                                         6

   The first column shows the number of revolutions of the Stars                                                                 in
in a year, and the next columns the left hand division show
               JAMES FERGUSON.                                                          395

the mean solar times in which these revolutions are performed.
Those in the right hand division show the daily accelerations

of the stars, or how much any given star gains upon the time

shown by a well-regulated Clock true to the vr<svTihiTrtimis Part
of a second in the whole year.

   Every star comes to the meridian 3 min. 56 s. 53 thirds 59
fourths 31 fifths sooner on any given day than it did on the day
before ; and consequently, if it gains so much upon the time
shown by the Clock 'tis a sure sign that the Clock goes true ; if

otherwise, the pendulum must be lengthened, or shortened ac

cordingly.

   The Equinoctial points in the heavens recede 50" of a degree

every Julian year, which causeth the stars to have an apparent

progressive motion eastward equal to 50" in that time. And as

the Sun's mean motion in the Ecliptic is only 11 Signs 29° 45'
40" 15"' in 365 days, 'tis plain that at the end of that time he

will be 14' 19" 45"' short of that point of the Ecliptic from which
he set out at the beginning ; and the stars will be advanced 50"
with respect to that point. Consequently, if the Sun's centre

be on the meridian with any star on any given day of the year,
that star will be 14' 19" 45"'+50" or 15' 9" 45'^ east of the Sun's
centre, on the 365th day afterward, when the Sun's centre is on
the meridian ; and therefore, the star will not come to the meri

dian on that day, till the Sun's centre has passed it by 1 min. 0 sec.

38 th. 56 iv. 54 v. of mean solar time ; for the meridian takes so

much time to revolve through an arc of 15' 9" 45"; and then, in
365 d. 0 h. 1 m. 0" 38"' 56 iv. 54 v. the star will have completed

just 366 revolutions from the meridian to the meridian again.
   In the first line of the right hand part, the 3 m. 55 s. 53"'

59 iv. 31 v. might have been put down 3 m. 55 sec. "8998658, or

if it had been put down 3 m. 56 s. 9, it would have been near

enough the truth.
   This Table is better than the Table near the end of this

Book  e. Common Place Book).27s
                             Calculated by James Ferguson."
      a (i.

                is
                   a

                                            a
Sec also " Common Place Book,"                 57.
                                               p.
                                                  h.
                                                                   4
27s In this Table, Ferguson starts with 23 56 m. s. 6thds. fourths 29
                                                                                     0

fifths as being the length of sidereal (lay. In a note we sometime ago received
from G. B. Airy, Esq., Astronomer Royal, he gives 23 9344U9 hours for the
length of sidereal day, which, reduced, 23 56 m. s. thds. 18 fourths 14
                                               is
                                                         h.
                                                              by
                                                                         4
                                                                                  5
fifths, which  value minus Ferguson's period        42 thirds 15 fourths.
is390 KXTENDED MEMOIR OF                                                                      it,
                             it,                                                                         in
                                                   aDeath of Ferguson's eldest Son, James. -- This son was of
a weakly constitution. In 17<>3 his father apprenticed him to
;
Mr. Nairne, Optician, Cornhill, London, to learn the practical
departments of that profession, it being probable that the youth
inherited his father's ingenious turn for Mechanics and Philo
sophy. He had been ailing for some years, but more particularly
during the autumn of 1772. He, shortly afterwards, worn out
by pulmonary consumption, was confined to his bed ; died at 4
Bolt Court, Fleet Street on 20th November, 1772, and was
interred in the churchyard of Old St. Mary-le-Bone on Novem
ber 25. For other references to this son, see pages 1 27 and 278.

                                                      1773.

   Projection of Part of the Sphere. -- Ferguson, in his MS.

'' Common Place Book," page 176, gives an elaborate projection
of part of the Sphere in the latitude of London (written early
in 1773) ; it is entitled,

      " A Projection of as much of the Sphere as is useful in the Latitude
       of London, for showing the Time of the Day, by the Sun's Altitude;
       with the times of his Rising and Setting, and his Amplitude at
       these times on each day of the Year for ever, by

                             , Ja». Ferguson,
                                                                    Finished April 6th, 1773."

   This projection of part of the Sphere does not appear to have
been published. Ferguson made several copies of --we have
seen two MS. copies, in his autograph, besides the one in his
Common Place Book.

   Blind Man's Clock. -- In his MS. " Common Place Book,"
    an Indian-ink drawing and short account of a very an

cient German Clock, which appears to have come into his pos
session about this period. As this Clock has often been re
ferred to as being one of the oldest Clocks extant, we shall give
his description of as also more full account extracted from
Beckrnan's History of Inventions.

   "A Clock, by which a blind Man may know the time of the

Day or Night, and also the places of the Sun and Moon the
Ecliptic made in Germany in the Year 1525, and now in the
possession of James Ferguson, F.R.S. a.D. 1773.

    The Hand goes round the Dial-Plate in 24 Hours, the Sun
goes round through all the 12 Signs of the Ecliptic in a Year;
                      JAMES FERGUSON.  397

the Moon goes round them in 27 days 8 hours, from the Sun to
the Sun again (or from Change to Change) in 29 £ Days, show
ing her Age on every day of the Year in a Circle divided into

XII29 4 equal parts.  is a double knob, and a single one at every

   At the Noon

other Hour. So that, a blind Man, by feeling round from the

double knob over the rest, and counting them till he comes to

the Hour-hand, may by that means know the time : and as two

knobs answer to a whole Sign, and as the double knob is against

the beginning of Cancer, he may count the rest to the Sun or

Moon, and so find their Places in the Ecliptic.

                Diameter of the Dial-Plate 9\ inches."

    " Common Place Book," p. 106.

   The following is Beckman's account of it :--
   " An artist named Jacob Lech, a native of Prague, construct
ed this clock in a.d. 1525, -- the wheels of which are all of iron,

and retain some punched marks of divisions, which appears to
support the conjecture that they were cut by manual labour.
This clock is somewhat different from the one constructed by

Vick in 136-i, being much more improved. It has a spiral

spring, and fusee of soft metal, and a screw instead of notches

at the ends of the double levers of the balance, with tapped

weights of lead instead of a regulator, -- with the addition of

some wheel-work for exhibiting the motions of the Sun and

Moon in an engraven ecliptic, as also a contrivance to strike

one at every hour. A cat-gut was originally the band of the

fuzee, but the introduction of a modern chain unfortunately has
destroyed nearly three out of the eight spiral threads at the
smaller end ; so that instead of going 48 hours (viz. 8 threads
multiplied by 6 hours), the remaining five threads will allow it

to go only 30 hours, which it at present does, though very irre
gularly, with vibrations of about one second each, by estimation.
On examining the wheel-work, the Moon's train of wheels, it is

found to be V x V = %V = 27i days> or 27 days 8 hours for a

periodic revolution of the Moon.579 And the Sun's train of
wheel work ^x^1 = 7^g* = 3C9 days exactly for the length
of a year, being a motion in the Moon's period too slow by 16

279 This fraction  produces the following result, -- viz. 98 i -=-36 -- 27 d. 8 h.
for a periodical revolution of the Moon, the true mean period in round numbers
being 27 d. 7 h. 43 m. ; error in wheel-work period, 17 m. too slow in each revolu

tion.
                           KXTENDK1) MEMOIK OF

minutes 55 seconds 19 thirds, and in that of the solar period by

3 days lb hours 11 minutes 10 seconds.2s0                                 These errors, that

cither the art of calculating planetary mechanism at the time

the clock was made, had not been understood, or that the errors

shown were not esteemed of any consequence. Beckman, in his
" History of Inventions" says, " This clock was the property of
Mr. Ferguson, Lecturer an Natural and Experimental Philoso

phy, Xo. 4 Bolt Court, London, at the sale of whose effects (after
his demise), a Mr. Peckit, of No. 50 Old Compton Street, pur

chased it in the year 1777, and that shortly afterwards, Mr. Peckit

bequeathed it to the British Museum, where it may be seen."
Another account says, " Mr. Peckit, an ingenious Apothecary of

Compton Street, Soho, hath shown me an Astronomical Clock

which belonged to the late Mr. Ferguson, and which still con

tinues to go. The workmanship on the outside is elegant, and
it appears to have been made by a German in 1525, by tbe

subjoined in the Bohemian of the time :

                   Iar. da. macht. mich. Iacob Zech
                    Zu. i-rag. ist. bar. da. man. zalt. 1525.

             The above Englished,
                   Year, when, made, me. Jacob Zech.
                  At Prague, is. true. when, counted. 1525.
1

                                   I is,
      have transposed the words as find them in the original
but war seems to have stood in the place of " bar" at least

Barrington has translated the German word wahr -- true, and
                                                                          is

                                                                                                   ;

we must read,

                      Da. man. ziilt. 525 jar
                      Da. macht. mich. Iacob. Zech. zu. Prag. 1st. wahr.
                                       1
                                                          s
This clock nine and one-fourth inches in diameter, andis
the height five inches." Beckman' " History of Inventions;"p.
also, Henderson's " Historical Treatise on Horolop-y," 2d Edit.

London, 1836,          15).

We may add, that from Ferguson's drawing of this Clock
                                                                          1a
seen that the works are enclosed in a short brass cylinder, some
                                                                                      it
what resembling the brass case of Ship's Chronometer. He had
                                                a                                             : is

another similarly-shaped old German Clock, but of much less

size, without the Astronomical part, with twelve hours on the

2s0 The fraction '^J* gives result very wide of the true period of the year
                      d.
                          6
                              h.

                                           a
                                                              ;
                                                                       a
                                lunar train of                          orthtuhsse,t--ilrlesnuealtrexwr oaupldp=rohxaivme atbieoen-n5-3m%96\ig* hxt
                                83 days nearly
W W \W =had

iS7
have
=    been added       =to  the
   "!!»,V,8^288            36a

been obtained          by the fraction >fY,

3t>5 27 days, or 365            29 m.
                JAMES FKRCiL'SON.

dial, and raised knobs, as already described.   This one is in the
Museum of Banff.

  Projection of the Gkeat Lunar Eclipse of 30th July,

1776. -- We have a fine pen-and-ink projection of this Eclipse,
calculated by Ferguson on 10th June, 1773 (fully three years
before it occurred) ; it is entitled,

      " A Projection of the Great total Eclipse of the' Moon that will full
      on the :iot h of July in the Year of our Lord 1776."

Annexed arc the following particulars of the Eclipse :--

" Beginning (July 30th) at 10 h. 8 m. r.M.
  Total immersion at . 11 14

Middle of the Eclipse,           i12 3
Beginning of emersion,
                                 1 "r2
Ending,
                                 13 ">7

Digits Eclipsed, 19."

Below the projection we find,

                "Calculated June J.10th, 1773, by Ferguson.''

This must be among the last of Ferguson's Eclipse Projections.

   The Arithmetical Triancle. -- We have a curious Triangu

lar Table which appears to have been written by Ferguson

sometime in the year 1773, --entitled,

                   "The Arithmetical Triangle for Combinations."

And annexed, on each side, is the description ofin         commencing
with                                                  it,

"This Table shows every possible Combination    any number of
things, not exceeding 20, &c."

and ending with -- F., 1773.  (See also MS. "Common Place
Book," 87 (Col. Lib. Edin.).
p.

            J.

   The Angle Trisector. -- In the year 1834 we copied from;

the original in the possession of the late Mr. Upcott, Islington,
London, the following drawing and description of an ingenious
Instrument for Trisecting Angles we also observe the same
drawing and description in his " Common Place Book."
400 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   " An Instrument by which an Angle may be either Trisected
or equally Divided into any odd number of equal sides.

   The joint A opens like that of a common Sector ; but the rest

D, E, F, G, are moveable, and so are the legs B D, D E, D F, F G,
G H, and G I. The joints E and F, and the ends H and I slide

along the edges B H and C I. The legs are all of equal length,
and the distance A B or A C, is equal to the length B D or C D

from centre to centre.

    To trisect an angle, set off the length of one of the legs (as
D E) from the given angular point on each of its containing
sides; apply D to the angular point, and the innermost edges

of the legs D E and D F to the sides of the angle ; or, in other
words, make the angle E D F equal to the angle given, and the
angle B A C shall he equal to one third thereof.

   If you want to divide the given angle into 5 equal ones, make
the angle H G I equal to the given angle ; and the angle BAG

shall   be  a. fifth part thereof.  Ninth,  &c.,  part  of the  given  anglo.
       you  want the Seventh or
  If

add as many more legs, as will form so many Rhombuses as the

part exceeds 5 ; and making the last legs form an angle equal
to the given one, the angle BAG shall always be the part
                                                  James Ferguson.
required.

                                                  London, 2&th Jtity, 1773."

See " Common Place Book," p. 192.

Ferguson did not confine his calculating powers to wheel-

work ftlone ; he frequently amused himself with calculations on
                         JAMES FERGUSON.                             401

a variety of curious subjects. The following series of Questions
and Answers relative to the National Debt appear to have

been written by him in or about the year 1773, when the public

debt was estimated at £130,000,000.

" Questions and Answers relative to the National Debt."

   "Qu. 1st. -- Supposing this debt to be no more than 130 Mil
lions of Pounds Sterling at present (although it is really much

more), and that it was all to be counted in Shillings ; that a

man could count at the rate of 100 shillings per minute, for

twelve hours each Day, till he counted the whole. How much

time would elapse whilst he was doing it?

   Answer. -- 98 years 316 days 14 hours and 40 minutes.
   Qu. 2d. --The whole of this sum being 2600 millions of shil

lings, and the Coinage standard being 62 shillings in the Trov

Pound; What is the weight of the whole?
   Answer. -- 41 millions 935 thousand 484 Troy Pounds.
   Qu. 3d. -- Supposing a man could carry 100 Pound weight

from London to York ; How many men would it require to carry

the whole?

   Answer. -- 419 thousand 355 men.

  Qu. 4. -- If all these men were to walk in a straight line, keep

ing at two yards distance from each other ; What length of Road

would they all require?

   Answer. -- 476 miles, half a mile, and 70 yards.
   Qu. 5. --The breadth of a shilling being one inch, if all these
shillings were laid in a straight line close to one another's edges ;
How long would the line be that would contain them?
   Answer. -- 41 thousand and 35 miles; which is 16 thousand

and 35 miles more than the whole circumference of the Earth.
Qu. 6. --Supposing the Interest of this Debt to be only 3£ per
rent, per annum ; What doth the whole annual Interest come to?
   Answer. -- 4 millions 550 thousand Pounds sterling?
QAun.sw7e. --r. --HoBwy
                         doth the Government    raise this Interest  yearly ?
                         taxing those who lent  the Principal, and    others.
Qu. 8. --When will the Government be able to pay off the

Principal?
   Answer. -- When there is more money in England's Treasury

alone than there is at present in all Europe; or perhaps in the

World?

                         3E
402 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Qu. 0. -- When will that bo? Answer. -- Never.
A cubic inch of Guinea Gold weighs 9 ounces 1 pennyweight

1 1 grains Troy, or 4355 grains ; and consequently, a cubic foot

(containing 1728 cubic  inches) weighs 1306  pounds 6 ounces, or
                        the Standard weight   of a Guinea is 129
7525440 grains. -- now

grains; divide 7525440 by 129, and the quotient will be 5833674

for the number of Guineas that may be coined out of one Cubic

Foot of Gold; which reduced into silver money is 61253'57£ (or

61253 Pounds llsh. 4d. 3 farthings). Then, as 61253 57 Pounds

is to 1 Cubic Foot, so is 130,000,000 Pounds to 2122 325 Cubic

Feet, the quantity of Gold equal to the National Debt. And

so much Gold would weigh 2,772,817 6 Troy Pounds. --James
Ferguson, 1773." (See also "Common Place Book," page

112).

   Death of Mrs. Ferguson. --After a lingering illness, and

confinement to her bed, Mrs. Ferguson died of consumption at
4 Bolt Court, Fleet Street, London, on September 3d, 1773,
aged 52 years. She was, according to a correspondent, of " a

fragile constitution -- often ailing --of a timid, quiet, and retir
ing disposition." During the last ten years of her life she was
destined to encounter much sorrow. In 1763 occurred the loss
of her only daughter, -- her mother, to whom she was much
attached, died in 1771, --and her eldest son, a youth of much
promise, died in 1772. Her remains were interred beside those

of her son, James, in the churchyard of Old St. Mary-le-Bone,

on September 6th.
   For a photograph of Mrs. Ferguson, taken from the original

Indian-ink portrait by her husband, the reader is referred to

date 1743, note 73, p. 47.

   Select Mechanical Exercises, Published. --During the

summer of this year (1773) he appears to have been employed
in arranging many of his loose philosophical papers for the pur
pose of forming them into a volume, as also in writing his
Memoir prefixed to it. This work appears to have been pub

lished early in September, -- the following is copy of its very full
title-page :--

       " Select Mechanical Exercises, Showing how to construct different
       Clocks, Orreries, and Sun-Pials, on Plain and Easy Principles; with
                             JAMES FERGUSON.                                          403

several Miscellaneous Articles and New Tables. --I. For expedi
                             Time of New    or Full Moon    within            Limits
tiously computing the        and after the                               the  gradu
of 6000 Years before                         18th century.  -- II.       For

ating and       examining    the usual Line on the Sector, Plain Scale, and
Gimter.         Illustrated
                             with Copperplates. To which is prefixed, A
Short account of the Life of the Author. By James Ferguson,
F.R.S. London : Printed for W. Straehan and T. Cadell, in the
Strand, mdcclxxiii." (Price 5s.)

   This work is an octavo of 272 pages, illustrated with nine
copperplate engravings of Astronomical Clocks. Orreries, Sun-
Dials, &c, and has passed through several editions, -- viz., in

1773,-- 1778,-- 1790,-- 1823. It is out of print, and now diffi

cult to be procured. The edition of 1778 has a likeness of

Ferguson, -- that of 1823 was published by Dr. Brewster (now
Sir David Brewster) in his " Ferguson's Essays."

   This is a very curious work, containing 36 miscellaneous
articles. It has always been a favourite with mechanics in
general, particularly with clock and watchmakers. The papers
composing it are somewhat similar to those in " Tables and
Tracts," from which, in the present work, we have given many

extracts.
    Prefixed to this work is the celebrated " Short Account of the

Life of the Author," comprised in 43 pages, 36 of which give
the details of his Life in Scotland, from 1710 to 1743, and part
only of the remaining 7 pages are made to suffice for the inci
dents of his life in England, from 1743 to 1773, the date when
ho wrote. As previously mentioned, there is every reason to
conclude that Ferguson was employed on his Memoir at the
time of his wife's death, and this will be sufficient to account
for the Memoir coming so abruptly to a conclusion. See note

3, pp. 1, 2.

   John, the youngest son of Ferguson, now in his 14th

year, left London about the end of October, 1773, for Aberdeen,
to attend the Medical and Surgical Classes of Marischal College.
He attended the classes of this University from 1773 to 1777

inclusive.2s1

2*1 We are indebted to John Cruickslmnks, l,L. D , Professor of Mathematics,

and Secretary   of   the College, for the following    entries from the  Alhum  of    Mar
ischal College  :--                                  Fcbruarii, 1774
                     " Under 'Classis Trima, 28

                     Joannes Ferguson, lilius Jacobi l.ondinensis.'
404 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   Syllabus of a Course of Lectures, Republished. --About

the end of the year 1773, Ferguson republished his Syllabus of
a Course of Lectures on Mechanics, Hydrostatics, Hydraulics,
Pneumatics, Electricity, and Astronomy, with a title-page simi
lar to that of the same Syllabus published in 1769.

                                                     1774.

   Cox's Perpetual Motion Clock. --In the latter part of the

year 1773, and for some time in 1774, a mechanical curiosity,
known as " The Perpetual Motion Clock," was "publicly ex
hibited in the Museum of Mr. James Cox, of the City of Lon
don, Jeweller." Thither Ferguson was attracted, or invited, to
inspect this novelty; and at the request of the inventor, Mr.
Cox, he gave, in writing, his opinion of it. But let precedence

be given to Mr. Cox's somewhat inflated announcement, as

follows --: 2s1
                        " The Perpetual Motion

is a mechanical and philosophical time-piece, which, after great
labour, numberless trials, unwearied attention, and immense

expense, is at last brought to perfection ; from this piece, by an
union of the mechanic and philosophic principles, a motion is
obtained that will continue for ever ; and although the metals

of steel and brass, of which it is constructed, must in time decay,

(a fate to which even the great globe itself, yea all that it in

herit, are exposed) still the primary cause of its motion being

           Under 'Tertia Classic, 14" Febr" 1776                                      '
           UnJdoearnn'eCslnFsseirsguQsuoanr,tiafi,liuFscbJar co1b77ii7, Londineusis.
           A.M: Joa. Ferguson.'"
   Dr. Cruickshanks remarks, that "John Ferguson must               bienen17a77St;u"deanntd
"also in Session 1774-5; otherwise, he could not have become  have

adds, by some unaccountable neglect, the class in which       A.M.

in, in 1774-5, had not been matriculated at all."             he would have been

Although qualified as a Surgeon, he never practised.  In 1777, he appears to
have returned to London, and resided there until 1804, when he went to reside

in Keith, Banffshire. He did not remain long there, having left Keith in 180-,
where he resided until his death in 1833. (See page 237; also, Appendix notice
of him).
awnhdichMTwahegishnaivPfeiec,repeenntttuitalPleideM,coe"tisAonoDfaedMsvceercrihptiastnievimsemenItnvainsednttaoJkereywn eoflrlfoemthrey,aSesCmvoeamlrlparqliusEeaxdrtqouinTisriatthceet
Schedule annexed to an Act of Parliament, made in the Thirteenth Year of

the reign of His present Majesty, George the Third, for enabling Mr. James
Cox, of the City of London, Jeweller, to dispose of his Museum by way of Lot
tery. (Growing Arts adorn Empire). London ; Printed by H. Hart, Crane
Court, Fleet Street, for Mr. Cox. mdcclxxiii." pp. 72; articles described in
it,
     56).
                     JAMES FERGUSON.                              405

constant, and the friction upon every part extremely insigni

ficant, it will continue its action for a longer duration than any

mechanical performance has ever been known to do.
   " This extraordinary piece is something about the height,

size, and dimensions of a common eight-day pendulum clock ;

the case is mahogany, in the architectural style, with columns

and pilasters, cornices and mouldings of brass, finely wrought,

richly gilt, and improved with the most elegantly adapted orna

ments. It is glazed on every side, whereby its construction, the

mode of its performance, and the masterly execution of the

workmanship, may be discovered by the intelligent spectator.

The time-piece is affixed to the part from whence the power is

derived ; it goes upon diamonds, or (to speak more technically)

ia jewelled in every part, where its friction could be lessened;

nor will it require any other assistance than the common regu

lation, necessary for any other time-keeper, to make it perform

with the utmost exactness. Besides the hour and minute, there

is a seconds hand, always in motion ; and to prevent the least

idea of deception, as well as to keep out the dust, the whole is
inclosed within frames of glass, and will be placed in the centre

of the Museum, for the inspection of every curious observer.

   N.B. -- The very existence of motion in the time-piece is

originated, continued, and perfected, from the philosophical prin

ciple by which it alone acts."

The foregoing is at best an unintelligible description, of which

nothing can be made. Another announcement by, probably, a

friend of Mr.  Cox   c(oopryby:--Cox  himself),  was  published,  of which
the following  is a

                              "To the Public.

    Among other sn'eat works now introduced at Mr. Cox's

Museum is an immense Barometer of so extraordinary a con
struction, that by it the long-sought-for, and in all likely the

only Perpetual Motion that ever will be discovered is obtain
ed. The constant revolution of wheels, moving in vertical,

horizontal, and other directions, is not only physically produced,
but the indication of time, from an union of the philosophic
with the mechanic principles, is effected. Upon the dial,
besides a minute and an hour hand, is another hand, divid
ing the minute into sixty parts ; these hands are motionless
                      EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

till affixed tu the primary motion, so that the motion of the

time-piece (as Mr. Cox, in his descriptive inventory, judi
                                                      originated, continued, and perfected,
by
                            it)

                             is
                                                                          it

                                                                                         is
ciously expresses

the philosophic principles through which                                                     (solely) ac

tuated.-s3

   The encouragement Mr. Cox has for many years given to men
of genius, and the perseverance with which he has pursued the

great line of utility, have not only given birth to productions that
have astonished all Europe, as well as the Eastern world, but

have at last produced the wonderful machine above described.

Several of the most eminent Philosophers and Mathematicians

in this kingdom, who have examined                    attentively, are of
                                                      a it
opinion, that will lead to farther improvements both in philo
is                                                                          by
            issophy and mechanics and we hear that Mr. Cox intends to

                     p. itdevote a part of every week to the gratification of such gentle

                                                   ;men in the scientific world as wish to be acquainted either with

the construct ion or the mode of operation, the principles of ac

tion, or the masterly execution of so capital performance. This

article the work of many years, during which time, number

less ineffectual and expensive trials were made, which perhaps

would have damped any ardour but Mr. Cox's, and probably

have prevented the world from ever being benefited                                           so valu

able a discovery." (Cox's Descriptive Inventory Catalogue of
his Museum, 2). '

   Still, nothing can be made of the foregoing description; nothing

told to explain its principle of action and internal construction.

Mr. Cox appears, by letter or otherwise, to have invited the

most eminent Philosophers, &c., to his Museum, to inspect this
" w< nuf erf ul machine." Among others, we find that Ferguson
examined it, and having probably been asked by Mr. Cox to

give him his written opinion of its merits, gave what must be

considered very favourable opinion of the unique contrivance.
A
            aFerguson at all events sent him the following letter, which

            aconveys information regarding the motive power employed to

produce the continuous motion.

:!*:> description of the motive power of this Clock, along with illustrative
engravings, maybe seen in "The London Mechanics' Magazine," vol x. 277
vol. xi. pp. 85--88.                                  by
                                                                                                 p.

                                                                                         J.

                                                                                     L by ;
We have beautifully-executed pen and ink drawing of this Clock, done
Keivnson in 1774, on a sheet of paper 19 inches       12, the gift of the late
Hutuerfurd, Esq., Windmill Street, Edinburgh.
                 JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                        407

" Sir,           I have seen and examined tne above described Cluck, which

Ls kept constantly go1ng by tlll! rising and falling of the quicksilver in a. most

extraordinary Barometer; and there is no danger of its ever failing to go, for

there is always such a quantity of moving power accumulated as would keep

the Clock going for a year, even if the Barometer should be quite away from

it. And indeed, on examining the whole contrivance and construction, I
must with truth say, that it is the most ingenious piece of Mechanism I ever
                                     James Ferguson. "
saw in my life.

Bolt Court, Fleet Street,
         Jan. 28iA, 1774.

Since Ferguson, after minutely inspecting this barometric

Clock, has pronounced it to be the most ingenious piece of

mechanism he ever saw in his life, there can be no doubt of its

being a very extraordinary one. For a lengthened description
of with woodeut illustrations, see Ferguson's M.S. " Com
it,
mon Place Book," pp. 85, 88,   89,  133 (Col. Lib. Edin.) also,
   itDircks's " Perpetuum Mobile,"pp.123-- 127, 182, 83, 330--
                                                      1
          is                                                     ;

338, and Lond. Mech. Mag, as noted.

Lectures in London, at Bath and Bristol. --From our

notes,           seen that Ferguson, during the months of January

and February of this year, was in Loudon, and engaged in

delivering several courses of Lectures to parties who had sub

scribed for them. At same time, his friends Bath and Bristol
                 ;

                       a

                                  :
                                                            a

                                                       in

                                                                                                     a
were engaged in getting subscription-list filled up for a Course

in each of these cities.' About the end of March, finding that the

required number of subscribers had nearly been obtained, he

left Loudon for Bath and immediately after his arrival, issued

the following advertisement --

                           " Bath.

Mr. Feruuson, having been favoured with Subscription for Course
of Twelve Lectures on Experimental Philosophy and
poses to begin them on Monday the 4th April next, at  Astronomy, pro
                                                      Twelve o'clock,

at Mr. Oxford's great Auction Room in Bond Street in this City, and to
continue them every Wednesday. Friday, and Monday following, at the

same hour, till the Course be finished. And for the couveniency of those

who cannot so well attend on the aforesaid days, he will re)ieat the same lec
tures on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, to accommodate each re

spective company.

   Subscriptions at One Guinea will be taken at Mu. Fredericks, Book
408 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

seller ili the Grove; at Mr. Balls, Bookseller, Opposite the Old
Rooms; Mr. Texnexts, Bookseller, Milsom Street, and at Mr. Jones',
Draper in the Church Yard." (Bath Chronicle, 31st March, 1774).

   About the middle of May, Ferguson left Bath for Bristol to
deliver his Course of Twelve Lectures on Experimental Philo
sophy and Astronomy to 64 subscribers. This course was
finished on or before May 21st, as will be seen from the follow
ing letter written by him to his publisher.5s4

                                                       " Bristol, May 21st, 1774.
      Dear Sir,

                     I had 118 Subscribers at Bath, -- at Bristol, I have just
finished a Course to 64, and it is likely that I shall begin a second Course on

Thursday next to about 24 Subscribers; but my health is far from being good.

  IConsidering the great success I have so often had in this City, cannot do
less than make a present of all my Six books, in Octavo, to the public Li

brary here; and am, with great respect,

                                      Dear Sir,
                                                  Your most obliged humble servant,
                                                                                 James Feruuson."

   During his residence in Bristol, and in the interval between
his first and second Courses of Lectures, he delivered a popular
lecture on Electricity, to which the following advertisement

refers, and is dated on same day as the foregoing letter.

Mr. Fkruuson                 will  begin   a    " Bristol,  MEaley c2tr\titc,it1y774at  (Saturday).  in
                                              Lecture on
                                                                                         the Bell

Broad Street on Monday next, at Six o'clvck in the Evening, in which, be
sides the common experiments, he will set Models of Mills, Clocks, and
Orreries in motion by streams of Electrical Matter. Show an artificial

fire screw, a natural representation of the Aurora Borealis, an illuminated
Moon, and a Saturn with its Rino ; the method of securing Buildings

from damage by Lightning; and conclude with an account of Medical Elec
tricity, so far as he has found it useful.

          Admission; two shillings and sixpence each person.

He will begin a second course of Lectures on Thursday next at 5 o'clock

in the evening, provided twenty-five persons subscribe their names thereto,

at Mr. Cadell's shop in Wine Street, by Thursday Evening.

   2S4 This letter was copied, in 1831. from the original in the possession of the
late William Lipcott, Esq., Islington, London, and appears to have been addressed
to his publisher, Mr. Thomas Cadell, Strand, London. The late Mr. C. T. Par
                                  Natural
tington,  "LeLcetcutruerres  on    Select    Philosophy, London,   p'u&blcis.,heind   an edition of  Fer
guson's                       on           Subjects in Mechanics,                    182.<,. At the  end

of his preface he gives a copy of this letter, and under Ferguson's likeness,
in the frontispiece, is a fac simile of the three first lines of the letter, given as
a specimen of Ferguson's plain and elegant handwriting.
                JAMES FERGUSON.                   409

         He has this day published, A Lecture on Eclipses of the Sun and
Moon; the true year of our Saviour's Crucifixion; the Supernatural
darkness at that time; and Daniel's 70 weeks : Price one Shilling.''

(Felix Farley's Bristol Journal, 21st May, 1774).

   The second course, to about 25 subscribers, commenced on

Thursday, 2Cth May, and was completed on or about the 10th
June. During this course he presented his six octavo volumes
to the Bristol Public Library.

   Ferguson's Works -- Bristol Library. -- About twenty
years ago, when in Bristol, we visited the Public Library, in

King Street, to get a sight of these volumes. We were cour
teously received by the Librarian, who at once unshelved them.
The "token of gratitude" consists of

     1st, Astronomy -- On Sir Isaac Newton's Principles.

      2d, Lectures on Select Subjects in Mechanics, &c.
     3d, Tables and Tracts, Relative to Several Arts and Sciences.
     4th, Easy Introduction to Astronomy for Young Gentlemen and Ladies.
     5th, An Introduction to Electricity.
      tith, Select Mechanical Exercises.

   In "Lectures on Select Subjects in Mechanics," was found,
on a fly-leaf, in Ferguson's autograph, the following bequest :--

       " As a Small Token of Gratitude to the Inhabitants of Bristol in
        general, for having repeatedly encouraged my coming among them
       to read Lectures on Experimental Philosophy, and for many other
       Instances and marks of their Favour, these Six Octavo Volumes are
       presented to the Library Society, with the Greatest Respect, by

company less numerous subscribed for a second Course. The
short interval between the Courses was filled up by preparing
for publication a Tract on the Eclipses of the Sun and Moon,
and in delivering a popular Lecture on Electricity.

   An Astronomical Lecture on Eclipses, Published at
Bristol. --Sometime about 21st May, he published, at Bristol,

an Astronomical Lecture on Eclipses of the Sun and Moon, the

Darkness at the Crucifixion, and on the Prophet Daniel's

Seventy Weeks,  now a very rare Tract,  of which  the following
                                    3F
is copy :--
410 EXTENDED MEMOIR UF

       " An Astronomical Lecture on Eclipses of the Sun and Moon, the
       true Year of our Saviour's Crucifixion, the Supernatural Darkness
       at that Time, and the Prophet Daniel's Seventy Weeks. By James
       Ferguson, F.R.S. Bristol : Printed by S. Farley, in Castle-Green.
       Price Two Shillings."

   About the middle of June, Ferguson had returned to Lou
don. Shortly afterwards was published the eighth edition of
his 'Analysis of a Course of Lectures on Mechanics," &c.
(the title-page of which is the same as that given under date

1763).

   Murdoch Ferguson, the second Son, appears to have
qualified for a surgeon about the end of 1774. Soon after, he
left London and tried to establish himself in Bury St. Edmunds
He remained there about 8 months, when, finding himself un
successful, he returned to London, and for some time resided

with his father at No. 4 Bolt Court, Fleet Street, and directed

his attention to qualifying for an Army Surgeon.

  Machine for finding the Weight of a Body in any
Latitude. --We have a pencil drawing, by Ferguson, of this
curious machine, which is initialled and dated, J. F., 1774.

There is no description appended to               On referring to "Com
                      a
                                      it.
mon Place Book," we find similar drawing in pen and ink,

with description, which we give as under. The drawing                       is

designated at top as

" machine for finding how much heavier any given weight  is,  when carried into
A

   great North or South Latitudes, than  it       at or near the Equator."
                                              is
JAMES FERGUSON.  411

   It is the power of the Earth's attraction that causes or con

stitutes the weight of all bodies on or near the Earth's surface ;
and as this attraction lays equally strong hold upon every par
ticle of matter, those bodies which contain the greater quanti
ties of matter, must be of so much the greater degrees of weight.

    Bodies are lighter at the Equator than they would be at or
near the Poles of the Earth ; 1st, Because the Earth is an oblate

Spheroid (its equatorial diameter being longer than its axis), a
Body at the Equator is farther from the great seat or place of

attraction than it would be if carried to either of the Poles; for

attraction decreases in proportion as the square of the distance
increases. And idly, Because the centrifugal force of a body at
the Equator, in being carried round upwards of 1000 miles each
hour, by the Earth's daily rotation ou its axis ; and the centri
fugal force being contrary to the attractive, diminishes the
weights of Bodies, most of all at the Equator. But, at the Poles

there is no centrifugal force at all.

   A B C is a Frame, in which the axis of the wheel D turns, a

little way, on a sharp edge, in the round hole above A, like the
axis of a common Balance ; and E is a thin arc of brass divided

into degrees, and third parts of a degree. F G and H G are

two small bars of brass, fixed to the wheel D, and joiued to
gether at G, by which contrivance, they make a Lever, strong,
light, and inflexible. This lever is just counter-balanced by a
leaden weight in the wheel at a. In the edge of the wheel is

Ia groove, in which, one end of a small silk cord is fixed at or
near b, and the other end of the cord is fixed to a spring K L,

whose thick end is screwed fast to k l to the graduated arc E ;
and H is a weight hung on the end G of the Lever, which weight

is counter-balanced, by the force of the spring acting on the
wheel, and tending to raise the Lever and weight by pulling

the cord 1 downward.

    Now, supposing this machine to be in a Ship at the Equator ;
hang the weight upon the end of the Lever, and note the point

or degree on the arc E at which the Lever rests. Then take

off the weight, and when the Ship has sailed into any great
northern or southern Latitude, hang on the weight again, and
observe how much lower the Lever rests ou the arc than it stood
at the Equator, and write down the difference. This done, lay
as many grains upou the top of the weight as will make the
412 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Lever descend just as much more as is equal to the said differ
ence; and that number of grains will be equal to what the
weight M is heavier (by the increase of gravity) at the then

place of the Ship, than it was at the Equator. As the axis of the
wheel bears on its sharp edge in the hole A, there will be little

or no friction on the axis ; and therefore, the least quantity
added to the weight M will move the Lever.

    According to Theory, the weight or gravity of any body at
either of the Poles, is in proportion to the weight or gravity it

would have at the Equator as 289 is to 288."

    "Common Place Book," p. 120.

The One-Wheeled Clock. -- On the back of one of Fermi-

son's papers in our collection (dated 1774). there is a pen-and-
ink drawing of a One-wheeled Clock. There is no description

it,

                                 a

                                                            it

                                                                                                              a
appended to simply these few words,--

" The number of Wheels in  Clock reduced to one, by means of
Double 'Scapement."

We shall give a copy of the drawing, and leave as a prob

lem to exercise the ingenuity of clock and watchmakers.
                  JAMES FERGUSON.                                    413

   On glancing over the pen-and-ink sketches in " Common
Place Book," we find a similar drawing, but still no description,

--merely the few words we have given are annexed to it. (See

"Common Place Book," p. 127).

                                             " The Tulse Glass."

   Pulse Glass.-- The above engraving of " The Pulse Glass "

is taken from the pencil drawing of it on the back of an auto

graph letter of Ferguson's of date 1774. In " Common Place

Book," we find a pen-and-ink sketch       ofis B,          with a description,
                                          with    D it,    the Bulb on one
of which the following copy --                           is
   " This glass consists of a Tube A
                       is                                        dC

                         D
                                       :
end of and the Bulb on the other.
         it,                                                 open at when
              is
the glass         blown, and the whole    filled about half full of

water, or Spirits of Wine, through the small opening at                                             d.

Then, all the air that can be taken out of the Glass taken
                                                                 is

out, through the part  d,  and then that part hermetically   is

sealed, under the Receiver of an Air- Pump, by the Sun's rays

transmitted through burning Glass, which collects them into
            if it

                         is d,
                              a

                                           C, it

                                                                          b
                                                                                            b

                                                                           E
                                                                                      F,
the focal point at and so closes up by melting that part.

       Then, the glass laid sloping upon the piece of wood

b, in  such a manner, that when the surface of the water or Spirits
                  comes to a level, acef, the part of the Tube
of Wine in

may be a little below that level, and the fluid spot at or about
A Then,
                  a person puts the ball of the thumb or finger

/;gently upon the lowest Bulb at the fluid at a sinks down to
       and a very large Bubble goes off from towards             then the

/;fluid rises to a again, and sinks, and throws off another Bubble

toward and so on continually, as long as the finger or thumb

       left upon  and all the while, the empty space from to
c is

             D

         C/
                                    ;

                                           C,

                                                                       if

                                                                                                 C
never grows bigger at one time than another, nor the space

between and less. The same thing will happen the Sun

shines upon the Bulb and not upon any other part of the

Glass.
414 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

      The reason of this pulsation                       that the heat of the finger,
                             a
                                         is

                                                    is,
or thumb, or Sun-beams, raises a vapour or steam from the sur

face of the fluid at a; that this steam presses down the fluid at

      and then goes off' in Bubble to the other end which being
a b,                                                     ;
colder than at a, the steama                 there condensed into the fluid
                                                            6 ; /,
      again, and so returns back fluid, and raises up the surface from

      the level of to a again. It will not do without taking the air
        b
                  ;
out of the Glass and the thinner the Tube and Bulbs are, so

      much the better docs the Glass perform."
         MS. " Common Place Book," 248.
                                It
      Analemma. -- We have one of these little instruments,                                                                         of in
                                     is
      Ferguson's autograph.            made of thick card and consists
      two circular discs, -- diameter of the larger one, inches, of theis 4| p.

      smaller, which  is  partly open,                inches. They are connected

      by pin in the centre upon which they turn on both cards arc

         series of circles and  figures,            "Jas also rules for using them.
      In a space near the       centre                   inscribed,  F, London,
      1774." TM

         Quadrants. -- We have also, in Ferguson's autograph, and                                                                   of in of

      same date, two Quadrants cut out in card. The sides of each

      respectively, are 10 and 10£ inches. On the edge of the arc
                          ^

      of the largest one are laid down the .90 degrees of the quadrant,

      and numbered 10, 20, 30, &cr, within which are the hours

      Roman characters, above which are a series of complex curves,

      which refer to the Ecliptic Signs, and over these are several

      circles, within which are the Days of the Month and Signs

      the Zodiac, resembling the horizon of small globe. In the
                                             it.
      "JF,interior are directions for using               a

                                                                is
                                                         On the edge of the arc are

        1774." 2B6 The second quadrant                               somewhat similar

      in its appearance, but for different, purpose. On the are are
                                a
aitn'o laid down the 90 degrees of the quadrant, and numbereda

10, 2d,' 30, &c, interior to which are double set of Roman hours,a

above tiVse hours are series of curves referring to the lati
tude, &c., ovcr which are written directions for use. At top arc

           X

   2s5 Ferguson apfnc*rs to have made several of" these Analcmmas (orthographic
projection of the Sphi ^rc upon the plane of the Meridian); there one the
Museum of Banff, another' in lo°se condition in his "Common Place Hook."

   2s6 There one exactly tli'"" same as th in the Museum at Banff.
        is
                                         n

                                                                 is
                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                                in
                                JAMES FERGUSON.                                              415

laid down the Days of the Month and Sun's Declination. Each

quadrant has sights at top, formed by cutting into the card,

leaving part to act as a hinge to keep them standing out, dur

ing an observation. In a small space within the arc of 90
"J.degrees is inscribed,
                                FERGUSON, LONDON, 1774." 2s7

                                                 1775.

Astronomical Rotula and Tract. --About the beginning

of the year 1775 were republished the Astronomical Rotula, and

the small octavo Tract of 16 pages.                       The price of the Rotula
and the descriptive Tract was 5s. 6d.                    The following is a copy of

the title-page of this Tract :--

" The Description and Use of the Astronomical Rotula, Showing
the Change and Age of the Moon, the Motions and Places of the
Sun, Moon, and Nodes in the Ecliptic; with the Times and Phases
of all the Solar and Lunar Eclipses. By James Ferguson, F.R.S.
London : Printed in the year mdcclxxv."

   As previously mentioned, these Rotulas and Tracts have been
long out of print, and are now very scarce. We have a copy of
one rotula, and also several copies of the Tracts, which we pur
chased some years ago at an old book and print shop in London.

   Revival of the " Astronomical Chronology," --Contro
versy between Ferguson and the Reverend J. Kennedy.
-- In the year 1762, Kennedy published his " Complete System
of Astronomical Chronology Unfolding the Scriptvres." In
the months of May, June, and November, 1763, Ferguson at
tacked several portions of this work in the " Critical Review,"

after which latter date nothing more was heard until March in

1775, when Kennedy, after a silence of twelve years, came again

before the public in a pamphlet, which, with its appendix, ex

tended to J)4 octavo pages. The following is a copy of its title-

page :--

" An Explanation and Proof of ' the Complete System of Astrono
amnidcaRl eCharlointyoloogyf ,  thuenOforldiginignathle   Scriptures'   In which the Truth
                                                         Luni-Solar    Radix is clearly and

fully ascertained ; first by Calculations a Priori ; then confirmed, to
the minutest Exactness, by Calculations a Posteriori, through an

   2s7 The late Deane Walker, Esq.. so often mentioned, had also a quadrant si
milar to this. We may here note that we purchased the Analemma and Quadrants
from a party in the north who hurl received them from Miss Wilson of Keith,
the daughter of a brother of Mrs. Ferguson.
416 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

     extensive interval of 5800 years. In a Series of Letters Addressed
     to Mr. James Ferguson, Author of A Treatise of Astronomy upon
     Sir Isaar Newton's Principles of Philosophy. (Magna est Veritas,
     et prevalebit) By the Rev. John Kennedy, Rector of Bradley, in
     Derbyshire, and Author of the Complete System of Astronomical
     ChronoloI/y Unfolding the Scriptures. London: mdcclxxv."2ss

    We think any impartial reader, after a perusal of this pro
duction, will be of opinion that, like the author's " Examination
of Mr. Ferguson's Remarks," published in the Critical Review,

May 1763, it exhibits a pretty considerable amount of ignorance,
arrogance, and petulance ; but in charity let it be borne in mind,

Mr. Kennedy was now on the verge of fourscore years.

   The first part of Kennedy's present pamphlet, " Explanation
and Proof," &c., consists of four long letters on some sections

of Ferguson's Astronomy; on Ferguson's Mean length of the
Solar Year and Lunation Period ; on the 1st year of the Mosaic

Creation ; on Ferguson's Astronomical Tables ; on the Calcula

tion of Ancient Eclipses by Ferguson's data, &c. ; and as a mat

ter of course, Kennedy, after examining these subjects in his
own peculiar way, finds, to his own satisfaction, that his " Astro
nomical Chronology " is right, and Ferguson's Astronomy wrong.
                                                    " Examination          "
The  four  letters     take  up  45  pages  of the                       ;
then follows :--
   An Appendix to the Foregoing Letters, containing a
Review of Mr. Ferguson's Remarks upon the Astronomical

Part of my System of Chronology. (See the Critical Review
for May, June, and November, 1763).
   This Appendix occupies 49 pages of       the     publication -- is full
of astronomical periods, tables, and calculations --and abounds

with cavil and puerile criticism.

  It may be here noticed that Kennedy does not commence his
scries of letters with "Dear Sir" or "Sir," but sneeringly with

" Old Friend," and concludes it with " Your old acquaintance
and v.'ell-unsher, John Kennedy." The "Appendix" also

   .'ss Kennedy dates  thu1hen7ist7ipl4pa.a"mFmepbphTrhluhelaeet rty"h,"aOEs1xc7pw7tlo5rai.bnttaeetrniAon1cu1otnhpad,nyed,r1p7Pta7hrr4oitso."fosdfa"LtIened,totoeu"nrriot1tcsowtappaoypsf,ea"dsraoEtmextdeo
former possessor of
Bradley, Sept*. 27th,

have been published
planation and Proofs," in MS., appears to have been sent to Ferguson by a foot-
swltieitferaevn,af"ninf--trdoemwvwitidrhKietetnnaetsnnlye,mduyw",crhiTtfthoreiursndpenrlbeeeytfstiesxorendae(sntoeoifaftrFhlheyeer)ghpuwarsidnaotsneb'sdeleefflnrteiteutwnendirdtshei.nr MKorue.nr ncFeoedprgyyu'sosfotnuthiteiboynpaamallpilrhthlreiyst
                              JAMES FERGUSON.                                                            417

begins with " Old Friend" but, in concluding he has forgotten

to assure Ferguson that he was his " well-wisher," simply ending
   with the initials " K."
is it

                        J.

                                                                                                      ;

                                                                                  it,
                                                                                                is
Immediately after the appearance of Kennedy's pamphlet,

Ferguson made a reply in print. The first of these letters

short, consisting of only four pages the second letter

occupies 28 pages octavo. Under date 1763, notice taken of

this "Astronomical Chronology" controversy, and quotations
given from these letters. To meet the " carpings and warp-

ings" in Kennedy's "Explanation          and Proof" just published
(March, 1775) -- cavils reproduced
                                         in great part from his pam

phlet of 1763, Ferguson conceived that although twelve years

had elapsed since the controversy was closed, the proper
answer was still the same as he had given in the Critical

Review in 176*3 and he accordingly reprinted the article
                              ;

                                                          a
                                                                   4
from this paper in the form of pamphlet of 28 pages, pre

facingit it  with the first letter of pages. Both these were

issued at same time, under one cover, about the beginning of

March, 1775.

As would be tedious and uninteresting to quote from Ken

nedy's sophistical pamphlet, the 'Explanation,"                               will be suffi
                              :

                                                                 is

                                                                  it
cient to give the first letter of four pages entire, with copious

extracts from Letter II. The following                                copy of the title-
pages to these Letters --

" Two Letters to the Rev. Mr. John Kennedy, containing An
Account of many Mistakes in the Astronomical Part of his
Scriptural Chronology. And his Abusive Treatment of Astronomi
cal Authors. By James Ferguson, F.E.S. London Printed for

    Cadell in the Strand, mdcclxxv."
1 it T.                                  I.
                              Letter
                                                                         :

" To the Reverend John Kennedy.

Reverend Sir,

                              You know, that in the Critical Review for May and

June A.d. 1763, gave some account of your System,                     I       Chronology Unfold
             I
                                                                          of
                           a
ing the Scriptures. But although in that Account, adhered strictly to the

truth, appeared by small pamphlet you published soon after that had
                                                                                                         II
incurred your high displeasure. And in order to avoid all further disputes

between us about astronomical matters, in some months afterwards (Nov.
1763) addressed letter to you in the Critical Review; of which, have
found that you have taken no notice of in print.
             it

                           a
But now seems you want to revive the old affair (of 1763) between us;

                                 3
                                      G
418                         EXTENDED MK.MOlli <>F

for, iu the preface to your Letters to the Reverend Dr. Blair, printed in

Ithe year 1773 (which never heard of till a few months ago when they fell

accidentally into my hands), you charged me with having found an eclipse of
the Moon, in the year before Christ, 201, two days before the Moon was full;
and with having miscalculated the days of all the eclipses on record before
the Christian -Era, besides having been guilty of many other ' enormous

Ierrors ' in my tables and calculations. You have likewise asserted (in the

same preface) that am ' an illiterate and incompetent judge ; ' and that, if
there had been a Censor Tabularum among us, ' all my solar and lunar tables,

without exception, would have been interdicted, as unfit for common use.'
You, Sir, have set yourself up for this Censor Tabularum; for you have also

said, in the same preface, that if a proficient was to calculate, even by Meter's
Tables (although, bythe-bye, they were never found to differ one minute of
time from observation), he would find that they are no solar or lunar tables
at all. A very fine compliment to the government under which you live, for

having given Meyer's widow such a large sum for these tobies in manuscript;
and to our Astronomer-royal, for calculating the Nautical Ephemeris from

them, for finding the Longitude.29*
    You may abuse me as much as you please ; but, however illiterate you take

Ime to be, believe I know the meaning of the few Hebrew words at the bot
tom of this page ; which I need not explain to you, who are a good Hebrew

scholar, and too well acquainted with your Bible to be at any loss where to
find them. And, as many who read this may be quite ignorant of the Hebrew

language, I shall neither give the English meaning of them, nor direct where
Ito find them ; because would not willingly raise a general laugh against

you.2"
    The whole reason for your finding fault with my solar and lunar tables is,

that they do not agree with your calculations for ancient times or events.

Indeed it would be a great wonder if they did ; for they are founded upon
astronomical observations, whereas the whole basis of yours is only an as
sumed hypothesis, which you call Mosaic principles, and whereby you pre
tend to have found out in what year of the Julian period the world was

**9 The Rev. Dr. Blair, Prebendary of Westminster, published, in 1773, a
Chronological work, which Mr. Kennedy at once attacked in a series of Nine
                                       In
Letters addressed to  Dr.   Blair.           his  Bplareirfacpeaidto   them he vilified Fergu
son, which Ferguson   here   notices.      Dr.                        no attention to Kennedy's

letters, at which Kennedy expressed himself as neglected, and bemoans his

fate.

   -"inTobias Meyer, tho eminent astronomical calculator, died in 1762, aged S9.
His widow received >k8,000 from Government, being part of the sum which they
hinadia'jionlel'"ewreTdlhigehtotfe--dwisitcHosevhbeorwreswthetwhloaortndgsthiteuadtseetdhaewteitbhaoisntttroomncoemroteafrinthhleiamdpiatsgs.eom"e
                                                                                                                                                    bring out  iFnerghuimson--
                                                                                                                                                      humour

that he could do a smart thing in a very quiet way, and in this case in a way
which he knew to 1m-the best lor arousing public curiosity to the meaning of the
cabalistic letters. The few Hrhrnr trnrds which Ferguson has at the bottom of
ahis page are ;nnN
                            j iV nwn js lnVwa Vdd jjt|
That is, " Ansiccr nolo fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him."
l'roverhs '26 chap, 4 vcr.
                   J AM lis FERUUSON.                                       411)

created. A thing that not only Moses and the prophets have been silent

about, but even our Saviour and his apostles also ; and consequently a tlung

that no man now can know, without an immediate revelation from Heaven,

which we are not to expect. And the late Reverend Mr. Bowen of Bristol

has plainly shown that by calculating ulxin principles similar to yours, he
can prove the date of the creation to be as many years before or after your

date thereof as he pleases : of which he has given Examples in the Christian's

IMagazine several years ago. Indeed am glad that you have condemned my

tables ; for, if you had commended them, they must have agreed with your

calculations ; and then the merest dabbler in astronomy could have proved

them to be false.

   In your Scripture Chronology you have taken a figure from my Book on
Astronomy, and there you insinuate that I had meant by it to amuse or de
ceive the unwary learner. But, in a pamphlet which you published soon

it, I                                                             and said was

       it
           it
                                  ;

                         if

                      I is
                                    it I

                                                                   i:t
                                                                 it

                                                           I a ; it,
                                                                                                                                  a
                                                                                                    it
after, you inserted the same figure : there you applauded

taken from Dr. Long although the doctor has no such figure in his book.

This, remember, was taken notice of by the Reviewers, who called upon yon

to show from which plate of the doctor's Astronomy you copied that figure,

and in what part of the book he describes      but you never complied with
their desire -- for this good reason, that you could not.

With respect to the number of people who can read and judge single

Critical Review can fall only into the hands of few persons and most of

those who have read my above-mentioned letter to you therein may probably

have forgot at this distance of time. therefore now think proper to pub

lish with some additional notes, subjoming                     to this, as fidl answer to

all you have hitherto written or ever can write against me.       know, you did

not like at first, and you dislike still, you must thank yourself for its

second appearance, which entirely owing to what you have mentioned con

cerning me (about the eclipse) in the preface to your Letters to Dr. Blair.

                   am,

                     Reverend Sir,

                   Your humble servant,
                                      James Ferguson.'

The following arc extracts from

                                   Letter II.

                    (First printed in the Critical Review,     Nov. 1763).
                                       Reprinted, March 1775.

" To the Reverend Mr. Kennedy.
      Reverend Sir,

                   As the printer of the Critical Review for the month

of May, 1763, found my paper containing the remarks on the astronomical

part of your System of Chronology, too long to be all inserted in the Review

for that month, and promised to conclude in his next, which he accordingly
did; was reasonable to suppose that you would have deferred your exami
it
                                                       it

                                                              if
nation of these remarks till the Review for June was published, that you

might have had an opportunity of examining, and, you could, of refuting

them all at once.
420 KXTKNDKI) MKMOIR OF

   But, it seems, this was more than you had patience to wait for, and there
fore you thought proper to attack one half of my paper before you had read
the whole of it ; which, in the opinion of the candid, will not, perhaps, be
deemed very fair on your side.

  As I expected you would likewise examine the second part, 1 have now
waited three months for what you had further to say, that I might at once

reply to the whole.

  But as you have disappointed me in this, I shall reply to what you have

published in relation to the first part (so far as it requires a reply), and give
myself no further trouble about anything you may chuse to write against me
for the future; unless I find reason to alter my present opinion."*

                                                                    Letter 2d to Kennedy, pp. 5, 6.

    Here Ferguson, by an asterisk, refers to a foot note, which
shows, that between 1763 and 1775, Kennedy had been using

*****endeavours to bring Ferguson's works iuto disrepute, --the foot

note in question says,

     I"And now think I have very good reason, because, in the preface

       to his Letters to Dr. Blair, he has endeavoured, as far as he could,
        to put an end to the sale of my Astronomy, Tables and Tracts, &c.,
       at once. But this gives Mr. Oadell no concern, who has bought
        the copyright of them all.''

                                                                  Letter 2d to Kennedy, p.
Further on in this letterby
                                                is,

                                                                                                                     ?
                                                                                                                           fi.
" The quest ion between us  whether you, or anybody else,

can calculate the true times of new and full moons and eclipses

by your tables, which you praise so highly, as well as you see
astronomers do theirs, which you altogether condemn This,

Sir, you know, can never be done by your tables, either with

equations or without them. And therefore, however useful

*****your book may be to the mere chronologer, and however exactly

your boasted coincidences may (or rather, indeed must) agree
with the principles upon which you have constructed these

tables, and may thereby dazzle and deceive the superficial

scholar, and conceal from him the imposture of your method,

you can never deceive any one who but tolerably qualified to
judge of these matters." 292
                    is
                                                               is

                                                                   it is
                                                                           it

                                                                                                                                    is

                                                                                                                    it
292 This somewhat strong language, but must be borne in mind that Ken
nedy was the aggressor in t|ns way, in not merely strong language, but in in
solence, and this retort by Ferguson as just a.s was necessary. He had,
                      awkward predilection for calling                their
a"ppKeeanrsn,edya'ns  Tables and Calculations were an     thmgs by   -- the  proper names,
                                                        imposture,"          base supposi
tion; and consequently, "an imaginary starting point will terminate in imagin
ary results," Kennedy appears to have keenly felt Ferguson's remark as to the
                              JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                   421

   "Toward the end of your Candid Examination of my re

marks, you tell me what is very true ; namely, that if I take au
attentive view of your calculations, I shall find no appearance,

or specification, of any radix at all, which, you say, is such a

I Iparadox as shall never be able to solve, unless can cordially,

and with some degree of faith too, follow your directions, which

are comprehended in these three words, Search the Scriptures.

   But since your Mosaic principles are, that the moon was full

upon the third day of the creation-week, just 24 hours before
the Sun was created to enlighten her ; that the fourth day of
the original week was the sixteenth day of the original month." *

    Ferguson has an asterisk here, referring to the following foot

note :--

      " * As we never heard that there were days or nights before the
       world was created, Query, whence does Mr. Kennedy fetch those
       fifteen days which preceded the fourth day of the original or first
      week?" (J. F.)

He then proceeds,
   " And that, on the noon of the fourth day, the sun was created

upon the first point of Libra, which was then vertical to a point

in a meridian in the Great South Sea, 156 degrees west of
Greenwich ; 'm and that you have been able, from these prin-

imposture of Iris method. In the appendix to " Explanation and Proofs," he takes

notice of it as follows: ---" Pray Mr. Critical Examiner, what can you possibly
       bcyalltahnaedloiumedxppofeoscrttuaretjouossfteimefyyinmginclchyooomdufmr esnnuetcx,htavn'Cidlirfyitbiinycgat,hl esrReeepvprioreeawscehnftus(Kl,eInanpndeudbdylic'eskglrya"dEidnxeg
mean   it,                    it                                                  '
terms     ;                                                                                          is
mand                                       p.      84). No retraction of course was made by
planation and Proof," Appendix,

Ferguson he simply gave utterance to what was true and well known. Kennedy,
                  in    thtehaat rtwaoyf--whoeunndeivnegr                 winces
a  great master     in                                     the feelings,  of his  "whveilnifyhineg                "  himself
touched a little                                           retracted any                                             expres

shiiosnrsetroergt!ardinfgormFeerrgupossosne,ssobrutofhoeurexcpoepcytsofFKeergnunseodny'sto"rEextrpalcatnaatniodn  apologize for
             A                                                                                                     aml Proof"

             osnhatlhl equmoatergionneo, f--     several remarks not very complimentary to Ken
"Ifhas written                              p. it

nedy. We
                                                   26, on margin at foot, we find,                                Kennedy's
                              luui not shone forth in every
ignorance of astronomy        ludicrous lyar, as is, call      line       tie writes          wwe ilsl.ho" uldPrehattvye
only branded him as an                                     it     by      what you
                                                               it
                                                                                     a
severe this; but as this was never before published, being only private noting,
it, along with  what follows, shows that the current of                                                                          Ken
nedy in fact,   he had not single supporter --everyone                    opinion was                             ahgiamin--st  news
   ;                          a                                           was against
                                     ;
"papers, magazines, and the public voice, cried him down, but he heeded not.
   W3 Ferguson, in foot note, remarks, thatit a                 He        plaocfesGreheisnwoircihgi--nal,          or fiist
meridian, in the Great South Sea, 156 degrees                  west                                               mere as
                                                                          ;
                                                                                           is

                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                    in
sumption, to make agree with Iris numerical measures and one would wonder
why he did not rather place his first meridian in Paradise, and adapt his numeri
cal measures to answer thereto which would at least have appealed more natural
                    almost opposite to
than to have put  itsays, was one of the           the river   EEudpehnr.a"te--s,(J.whFic.)h  still                  being,
and which Moses                                     rivers of
422 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

ciples, and the farther assistance of the Pentateuch, to deduce
that the precise length of a mean lunation is 29 days 12 hours
44 minutes 1 second 45 thirds, and that the precise length of

Ithe solar tropical year is 365 days 5 Ik mi s 49 minutea194

    Unluckily for these principles, happened to remember that
Moses says, that both the Sun and Moon were created on the
fourth day of the original week, without mentioning whether
the moon was then new or full, or over what meridian or meri
dians these two luminaries were created (Tor his calling: the

294 Regarding the true mean lengths of the tiopical year and of a lunation,
notice has already been token ; (see notes 239, 240, pp. 275, 276) -- the year con
       of 3i>5d. 5h. 48  m. 51 6 s. ;  PalnadceaBlouonkati"onth, ere29  d.   12 h. 44 m.  2-87s.
sists  Ferguson's MS.    ** Common                                      is  a humorous    memorandum

   In                                     for determining
                                          is copy of it : --
by him on Kennedy's      absurd method                                  the length        of the  year.   It
was never published.       The following
     " The true length of the Solar tropical year determined by Scripture data,
                      in imitation of the Reverend John Kennedy,
     l'ut 3 = the Hutchinscmian Elohim, the lirst in order, )
     ,, ti = the Hexameron, the second in order,                            Vin respect of time.
     ,, 5 = the Pentateuch, the third in order,
                                                                            )

       305 = the position altered = the years of Enoch's Life = the days in a year.

                      Divide    Now for the Odd Hours.

                              365 bv 70 = Auni aitatis humanre.

                                          70)3«5(5 hours.
                                                 350

                                            For the minutes,                        both to the units

Cube the number 15, then add the number of Books of Moses,
and tens of the cube number, and divide by 70 as before.

                          15X15X15 = 3375

                                                                             55

                                       70)3430(49 minutes.
                                            280

                                          (;:!"

                                          630

There being no remainder, 'tis plain that the year can neither exceed nor fall
                      5 h. 49 m., which is Mr. Kennedy's true Shanak or Solar revolu
short   of  365  d".  Common Place Hook." on a small half sheet of paper fastened in
tion."      MS.
between pages 70 and 71. As it is not on a page of the book, it is likely that
Ferguson may have carried it about in his pocket-book, to show to bis friends as

a quiet joke.
     In this illustration, the first figure, 3, is   put down               as being equal to "the
II"  utchiummian Elohim --the first    in onier,"     This is a
     Hutchinsonians," of which he      had a very                           hit by Ferguson on the
                                                    indifferent                              In alluding
                                                                            "opTinheion.  utehinsonians   to
                                                    5, he says,                                           do
IIthis body in his "Common Place Hook," p.
indent damn Sir Isaac Newton, but evenfone who attends to demonstrative truth,
alhiw that thsii are the most wrong-headol set of people upon Dvefaux of the Earth,
regarding neither Reason nor Demonstration."
                            JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                                                            42.'3

moon a luminary             is no demonstration to me that she was

created full), and that he has said as little either about the pre

cise length of a year or of a lunation; and therefore, 1 had too

little faith in Mr. Kennedy's directions to induce me to search

Ithe Scriptures for what was preconvinced I should never be

able to find in them ; and so began to think that, instead of a
true Mosaic radix, he had got a windmill in his head."

(Pp.  12,  13).          *                 *                    *                                                                                        *
       *

   I" suppose you remember very well that you told ine, some

years ago, you would not let me know the measure or length of

your Mosaic lunation, because you was sure that if you did, I

would correct all my lunar tables by but that you would soon
                                                  it,
                                                        by
*****publish in a book which would surprise the world, and thatI
you would try your Mosaic lunation;                             some well-vouched
           it
ancient eclipses, the times of which were distinguished by suchit

sure characteristics, that we would be at no loss about them.

But you then told me that eclipses were no part of your doc

trine and yet seems they now are for, in your own way, you
                                              ;

have calculated several of them in your book." (Pp. 13, 14).

   " often desired you to calculate the time of full moon in

September, the year before Christ 201, from your own num

bers, and to let me have under your hand but his was
                            by it                                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                                                                    t

                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                       Ia
request you never thought proper to comply with, although

never denied you any calculation you asked for. But was

not cunning to catch you guile, as you have since owned, you

did me.

   As to the mistake in one of my calculations, in letter which
                                                                                                                                                      a

I  sent you long ago, and of which you have now, with inex
pressible joy, in the l0th page of your Candid Examination,
declared me to be the author, -- this was not very fair, in print,

to expose  a     mistake in a letter of correspondence which was

never printed. You have done all in your power to expose me

for you make the most of you can.                                                                                                                     mistake was
   it                       I                                                                                                                       A

       ;                         it                                                                                                                            p.

                                                                                                                                                                      u it

                                                                                                                                                                                              ;
and am not like you, for do not pretend to be infallible
   I

   29.j The foot note in question says, "     surprising to think how, in our Ku<
                                         i,. It

                                                is
                                                            is
lish translation of the Bible (Gen. c.        v. 16), the Sun and Moon should have
aaberriyecnso, cr anilnoletsdtrHugtmihrtoes.ngtrmfnotrxlicg(ovhn.tvt,e3y) sinseigeginntighfieetshleiglighohtr.itg,--inaanl dF.T"imHOtfn(TLrett\,y. .                   lumin
                                                                                                                                                      which signifies  lumin
                                                                                                                                                       16) signifies
                                              J.                                                                                                      2d, 13).
424 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

either in constructing tables of my own, or in computing from
those of others. You know full well, that my beginning a
literary correspondence with you was solely owing to the request

of a gentleman of distinction, who is now dead.296 But is it
possible for you to imagine that there should be no errors in

the many letters and calculations which I sent you, and which
I could seldom spare time to examine, on account of my busi
Ifness, on which my family's bread depended ? 297 you have pre

served all the rest of my letters, you are welcome to print every
one of them, provided you also print the copies of yours to
which they are answers ; and so to complete the sweet revenge
which you think you have thus begun in your examination of
my remarks on the unastronomical part of your system.

   You tell me, in that little pamphlet, that the last lunar tables

which I published are different from the first ; and therefore,
you say I am ' tossed about with every blast of doctrine, adopt

ing one measure to-day and another to-morrow.'

   Tossed about with every blast of doctrine! No, Sir; for,
notwithstanding all the violent and most magisterial blasts of
your doctrine, which, I daresay, you take to be soTne doctrine,
I am so far from being tossed about as not to be in the least

shaken thereby; nor has all your dust been able to hurt, much
less to blind, my eyes.

  I own that my last astronomical tables are not exactly the
Isame with the first ; for am never ashamed to mend or improve
anything I have formerly done ; and am obliged to every one

who assists me with proper advice and materials for that pur

pose. I do not pretend that these tables are yet perfect, nor

that they can be brought to such a mathematical degree of
exactness as you assert that all your tables and calculations are.

And therefore I must be content with what improvements I can

make from time to time, from the observations of astronomers :

for Moses has given me no assistance at all in these matters.
    But you are a perfect man in all these things. Your measures

of years, lunations, sidereal and solar days, are all so mathemati-

    296 The gentleman here alluded to appears to have been Ferguson's distin
guished friend, the Rev. Dr. Birch, who died in 1766. (See note 255, p. 325V

    297 The Reverend Mr. Kennedy was introduced to Ferguson by the Rev. Dr.
 Birch about the year 1755, when Ferguson had a hard struggle to maintain him
 self and family; and it is a matter of surprise that he could spare time for the
 examination of so many frivolous and absurd calculations as were sent to him hv
 Kennedy.
                  JAMES FERGUSON.                          423

cully true, that the least particle of time can neither be added
to them, nor taken from them, without doing violence to nature.
You will therefore, undoubtedly, abide by your own numerical

Imeasures ; and to them will now bind you down.

   You tell us that the mean time of the new moon in April,
1764, is the 1st day, at 10 hrs. 11 min. 39 sec. 15 thirds, in the

morning ; and that the precise length of a mean lunation is
29 d. 12 hrs. 44 min. 1 sec. 45 thirds. The sun will be eclipsed

at the time of this new moon ; and you lay so great a stress
upon it as to say, ' Should it be found, by a diligent observation,
that we have nearly calculated the middle time of this future
eclipse of the sun,29s in our own meridian, it will then be de
monstrably certain that the calculations were regulated,--- 1.
By a true series of tropical years and lunations, from the au
tumnal equinox at the creation to the vernal equinox A.d. 1764.

2. By an exact quantity of the solar tropical year, and of a
mean lunation. 3. By a true meridian distance.'

    And now, from the mean time of new moon in April, 1764,
as calculated by yourself from your own measure of a lunation,

&c., you are here called upon to calculate backward, so as to

give us,
    1. The mean time of full moou at Alexandria, in September,

in the year before Christ 201 ; which full moon, according to

Ptolemy, rose eclipsed at that place.
    2. The mean time of full moon at Syracuse, in September, iu

the year before Christ 331 ; which full moon also rose eclipsed

*****at that place, according to Ptolemy.
    3. The mean time of full moon at Babylon, in December, in
the year before Christ 383 ; which full moon set eclipsed at

sun-rising according to Ptolemy.

    4. The mean time of new moon at Athens, in August, in the
year before Christ 431, when the sun was eclipsed in the even

ing according to Thucydides." (Pp. 14-- 18).
   " Upon calculating backward, by your measure of a lunation,

from the mean time of new moon in April, 1764 (as given by
yourself, in which you come very near the truth), through all

the lunations up to the above times, I find, that in the first-

  'rasIt will he  remembered that Ferguson, afterwards,    wpph.en290at--L2iv9e6r).pool,  on
April 1st, 1764,  made observations on this eclipsc. (See

                  3H
                    KXTF.NDED MI'.MOIR OF

mentioned of these eclipses, your numbers make the time to
have been almost 21 hours after the full moon rose ; so that she

was then below the horizon, and within three hours of rising
in the morning after the eclipse happened; and consequently,
according t<>your measures, that eclipse could not be visible at

Alexandria.
   In the second of these eclipses, your numbers make the time

to have been fifteen hours after the moon was risen ; and there

fore, for the time of the year, the moon was set, and the eclipse
invisible at Syracuse.

   In the third-mentioned eclipse, your numbers make the time

to have been fifteen hours after the moon was eclipsed ; and
therefore, for the time of the year in which it happened, the
moon, being in a high sign of the ecliptic, must not only have
been risen at Babylon, but even very far advanced above the
horizon, and on a wrong day for her to have been eclipsed.

    In the fourth of those eclipses, your numbers make the time
to have been four hours too late, and the sun to have been below

the horizon of Athens ; so that he must then have been invisibly

eclipsed at that place.
    And, upon trying to rectify your numbers, by applying the

proper equations, I find all the times too late by the following

quantities. The first eclipse about nine hours, the second
almost ten, the third somewhat more than ten, and the fourth,
ten and a quarter. So that your measures will not come near
the observed times, either with or without equations ; and as we
find your mean times are too late, and the further back from
the present times so much the later, this is an evident demon
 stration that your measure of a lunation is too short, seeing it
brings down the times of all the ancient new and full moons
 too near to the present; and manifestly overthrows all your
 lunar astronomy at once. And yet, you would have us to
 believe that you had all your measures from the Scriptures,
 although every one who reads them knows that minutes,
 seconds, and thirds of time are never once mentioned there,
 and very seldom hours ; 'm and hence it is too plain, that a deist,

2" Minutes, seconds, and thirds of time are not to be found in the Scriptures,
                                                                                                            like equivalents to he found: for in
cstearntcaei,nly",  W-mlemomtaelsinnotatf"hineidms o"fthftrehereeqtuwaernientkoslcoincmugreretohnfcinaeng,  eyweh, i"chw,hipcehrhahpass,
                                                                                                                                           answers toonr«w*<'
of time.                                                                                                                                  been estimated at //»

tenth part of a second." The term hour occurs for the first time in the Scripture
                                    JAMES FKRUUSON.

who could persuade any unwary scholar to believe you, might

draw an argument from your book specious                                        enough to make

him disbelieve the Bible." (Pp. 18-- 20).                                                              

          #* # *

" The truth             is,         that, intent upon your chronological studies,

you have forgotten the very elements of logic. By changing the

terms of the question, you bring out absurd conclusions, and

then fix them on others (much like your way of treating Meyer's
tables, as mentioned already). The definition of solar day

as plain as any definition in Euclid and the only question
                                                                  ;

                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                  is, is

what its mean length above the sidereal. This, without any
is
    aproof, you assert to be four minutes precisely, and this assertion,

you call definition; in consequence of which, you aver, that

whatever star comes to the meridian with the sun, on any given
day of the year, will come to the meridian twenty minutes be

fore the sun on the 365th day afterward (but instead of this,
will be minute later than the sun on coming to the meridian);
is                                                      it
    a                                                       is

      I                                                                     is

                                                                                                   it
and therefore so notoriously false, as plain to every ob

server, that need not say anything farther about it. And yet,

according to your own account,                                    the very foundation of your

astronomical tables, from which you could derive no assistance

from the incongruous accounts and observations of astrono

mers.300

in the Book of Daniel, hap. ver. 5th. But before the time of Daniel, about
                                    c
                                                 5,

                                                  It

                                                            is
                                                                                                                                    ?
the year 720 B.C., we read of the Sun-dial of Ahaz. How was time then divided,
           w**hmatomennatme" sandwer''etwitnhkelindgiviosifoanns    an"d     subdivisions    known
and by                                                            eye     does not refer   to time,                                      The
Scripture                                                                                                                            but to

something of sudden import.                         mentioned in history that Alexander the
Great, on his taking Rabylon, in the year n.c. 331, discovered, on slabs of brick,
list of all he eclipses of the Sun and Moon, aml times of their taking place, foi
a
                  a

                     t
the long period of 1,903 years; thus showing that the Babylonians, 2,234 years
B.C., had method lor recordmg divisions and subdivisions of time, which period
reaches backward almost to the understood period of the Deluge.

This assertion of Kennedy's of itself sufficient to show that be had much
to learn in the science of Astronomy.               is

                                                           It
                                                                 is

                                                                                                                    by
                                                                  difficult to conjecture                               what pro

cess of calculation he came to the conclusion that any given star, after leaving
the meridian with the Sun, would, on the 365th day afterwards, come to the

=same meridian 20 minutes before the Sim.'

length of the sidereal day, which, on being

X litio = 8759-600244 h.'=8759h. 36 m.
                                                              He assumed 23 h.    56 m. as the exactis                                  is h.
                                                           decimallv expressed,
                                                        0  s. 52thds. 42 fourths    = 23*933334

                                                                                   14 fifths 364 d.

23 h. 36 m. s. 52thds. 42 fourths 14 fifths, which wants 23 m. 59 s. hds. 17
4                                                                                                                       7
       is 0                                                                                                               t

fourths 46 fifths of the 365 d., but Kennedy                  makes       20 m. exactly!   1 It
be might say to himself, -- why, these 23                     56 m.,  it                                                is  possible
                                                                             4
                                                        ,h. h.            my value of the sidereal day,
=exactly m. less than the solar day of 24                         and this m. X 365 --- 460 m. and
                                                                                                                                     ,

as a day of 24 X60 1440 min., this                  is  minus the 1460 by 2o minutes exactly.

There are 23 h. 56 m.               906 seconds in sidereal day,a               which, when decimallv
                                                                                      m. 56 s. 21 thds. 15
                                        366 = 8761) 015654 = 8760
                        23 -934469d. h. 4                                       h.
=expressed,                              X                                          0
fourths 50 tilths 365                                                                                                       is
                                                 0
                                    Oh. m. 56 s. 21 thds. 15 fourths 50 fifths, which
428 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   With no less absurdity yon assert that all equations of time
are unastronon1ical, and ought to be rejected. For shame!

Mr. Kennedy, blush at these things ; for, however well you may

think yourself qualified to find out Hebrew roots, what (as you

term            the stream     commentators have not discovered
      it)

            ;'

                           of
                                                                                       '

                                                                                                          of
before you yet every novice in astronomy can show how grossly
you are mistaken in this matter; and, without the assistance           #
Hebrew, Greek, or Latin, can prove that you have taken upon                       by
you to write on a science of which you know nothing at all.
You might just as well condemn all theory and observation
the lump, as talk at this rate and indeed appears by the
greatest part of your writings that you are inclined to do so."
                               #;
(Pp. 2*3--25).     *                            '

                                                     *

                                                     it
   " To satisfy the sixth query of your Examination' namely,

'  whether the sun, moon, and stars militate against your system

of Chronology   ?'       answer-- They do. For, the sun militates

                   I        for nothing else than your denying the

                       it
against you, were
equation of time -- the moon militates against you, because your
                :

*****lunar numbers answer not to the times of her eclipses --and       :

the stars in their courses militate against you, because, accorda

ing to your measure of sidereal day, they ought to have a pro
gressive motion of five degrees westward, with respect to the
equinoctial points, every year; whereas, in truth, their apparent
progress eastward from these points, and that not quite the

6Oth part of a degree in year." (Pp. 23 -- 26).
            is
                                 is

                                            a

                                                                   if
   " In the calculation you give at page 252 of your book, 'you

say your conclusion very remarkable, and very singular, be
                                                                       A most
cause no other tables can produce such coincidence.'

wonderful coincidence this! Strange, indeed, that you count

five inches forward from one end of a foot rule, and seven inches

back from the other end, both your reckonings shall end at the
same point! And of this very kind are several others of your

astonishing and most accurate conclusions.

  s. lTthds.    41 fourths fifths mimis Ferguson's    value   in  Table at page 394;
                 arises from our period-- the modern  value  of   sidereal day -- Wing
the difference
(i 4
            40
                    5

                                             4
                                          is
                                                                                              is a

                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                   h.
                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                                     by h.
slightly less than Ferguson's. At top of Table just mentioned, 23 56 m. s.
   Inds. fourths 29 fifths given as the value of sidereal day. We give 23
56 m. s. thds. 18 fourths 14 fifths, being the value communicated to us
O. B. Airy, Esq., Astionomer-Koyal, and winch now used in all similar cal

culations.
                                JAMKS FERGUSON.                              429

   And yet, amidst all this trifling, you have been cautious

enough to keep within such a proper distance of the best deter

minations of the length of a tropical year, and synodical month,

as not to affect the dates of the years in your chronological

accounts, when they are not connected with eclipses : so that,

unless your tables are tried by the sure test of eclipses, you are

sure to be pretty safe."        is         27*).           *      *

              #                       (p.
                    I I I is #
   "As to the twenty-three queries which you have raised upon

my remarks, and which by a strange kind of logic you call an

'Examination of these remarks, they seem to me not to re

quire any answer at all. For, only to query whether such and

such a remark be true, neither a confirmation nor a refutation

of and this all you have done with regard to what you
   it

       :

call an Examination of them; for not one of them have you

                              still abide the justice of these remarks,
offered to refute.                            it by

do you query as much as you please. But,                          any judicious
                                                              if

                                                                         it
astronomer discovers any error in them, and will detect (which

has never been done yet since                        was first published, in 1763),

and put hi* name to what he writes, will as publicly own                     it
                                                      'I
                                                                                ;

but shall take no notice of any anonymous publication.
   I

   The only reasons had for taking no notice of this very Can

did Examination of yours are these which follow                   :          do not
   First,-- because you have therein told me, that
                                                                     iIf

take an opportunity to refute your confident assertions,' you

shall conclude that have given up my ovm tables, and become

  convert to your scheme.a

   Secondly, --because you have therein charged me with pur
loining what you call the most shining paragraph in my vJiole

book of Astronomy from you and which you have the consum
                                           ;

mate vanity to say does credit to my performance.

                                                      is,
   The substance of which paragraph that                   if     could be proved
                                                              it

from the writings of Moses, that the sun was created upon the

point of the autumnal equinox, and the moon in opposition to

the sun, as well as can be proved by these writings that the
                    it

sun and moon were created on the fourth day of the originalit
week, there would be data enough for ascertaining the age of
the world. (But you will have that, on the fourth day, the

moon was 24 hours past her full before there was a sun to

enlighten her). For on account of the incommensurability
430 KXTENDKD MEMOIR OF

of a week to a lunation, and of both a week and a lunation

to a year, we might venture to say that 200,000 years would
not be sufficient to bring all these three circumstances together

Iagain.

   You now ask me ' whether learnt it from my illustrious
master, Newton? or if I happily collected
I

                       it

                                              iIf it,

                                                                         it
                                                                             it
                                                                    as you did, from

your divinely illustrious master, Moses? or                         did not rather

deign to purloin from you, his humble commentator?' as you

say certainly did, and then tell me that, be that as may,

will bear testimony against its cavilling author, in support of

your Chronology, as long as the sun and moon endureth. Vain

man My answer that knew long long before knewis,
;!                                                                                                      it I
you and had no need to collect so plain a thing, either from(if

the writings of Moses, or of Newton, or even to purloin from;I

Kennedy, who a greater man than either of them and who, by5 by
         it
                      is                      it
calling his, and me only its purloiner, has owned himself tois, it it
be the cavilling author. And indeed, know but one author
                                                  it I
who more cavilling                                 possible) than himself and that an                          is
;                                                                        7a

   is is                                                                                      ;
                                                                                                     ;
         if

                is
author who despised both                           him and me.301

It neither to be found in the writings of Moses nor New

ton and                    you have anything of in your book (printed so

long after mine), you have explained as you have done your

(pretended) Mosaic numbers that in such long-winded and

unintelligible manner, that you scarce have occasion for a Dutch
commentator to help to explain into greater darkness --solve

you can.
it
   if

                        a
   Suppose Clock to have three hands, all going round the
same way on its dial-plate, one of them in days, another in

17 days hours 43 minutes seconds, and the third in 365
         5
               7
Ifdays hours 48 minutes 54 seconds.                all these hands set out

together from any given point of the dial-plate, and continue to

go onward, query, How many years, months, days, hours,

minutes, and seconds must revolve before all these hands can

be in conjunction, or together again at the same point? If you

are puzzled about how to solve this, pray collect from the
                                                   it
                                                                    it
writings of Moses, where you will find just as readily as you

found the other.3"2

301 Ferguson here probably alludes ti> llfltp, " ths Author of all Eril."
    3*S    similar c|ue8Uon                        ;md answered     in pp. "253. i!54.                         But the
result   there given, viz.          proposed                                                                   48s., is
         A                   1427651677822            Julian years
                                               is

                                                                    2d. 10  h.                          40 m.
                          JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                                     431

   Thirdly, and lastly, because you cannot pervert me into theI
belief of your doctrine, you have thought tit to tell me, in yourit,
Candid Examination, that ' historical evidence has no more
weight with me, nor makes any more impression upon myI
mind, than the reveries of a sick man's dream; though heaven
may have given a sanction to its truth,' Disingenuous Sir !a

IAlthough you and always differed widely in our sentiments

with respect to astronomy, I had a good opinion of your heart
till now ; and believed you to be a well-meaning man, a searcher

for divine truth, and a sincere Christian. What you have here

said would wound my very soul if it were true. But, as heaven
knows it to be false, and you dare not lay your hand on your

heart and say, before God it is true, seeing you never had the

least ground for either from my actions, my writings, or my
conversation, now look upon you to be below my farther
notice. Nevertheless, sincerely wish you a better mind, and

do bid you hearty farewell.
                                               James Ferguson (1763)."

   After the appearance of Ferguson's " Two Letters," the
reviewers took the matter in hand, reflecting severely on Ken

nedy's conduct. The following extracted from the Monthly

Review for 1775, vol. 53, 354.
                          '
                                    p.

                                               is

                                                                                              '
    '' In the year 7fi:!, Mr. Ferguson published some remarks on the astronomi
cal part of Mr. Kennedy's Complete System of Chronology; these were subI' 1

mitted to the author's perusal before they were printed, and the Reviewer

very candidly subjoined his name to them when they were actually published.
They were so unfavourable to the credit of Mr. Kennedy, as calculator, that
                                                                                       is
                                                                                                 a
he took the first opportunity of commencing correspondence with Mr. Fer
                                                                         a
                                                                             a
guson, which has been since carried on with very unjustifiable degree of

heat and asperity. The original question in debate                                     perplexed and con
                                                              byunkind but unsuccessful attempts to
founded by persnnul reflections, and                                  '

depreciate the abilities and fidelity of our popular Astronomer,' nor indeed
have other names, however justly celebrated, escaped the lash of Mr. Ken
                   know you' (says he, speaking of Mr. F.) to bo extremely
nedy's pen.                                                                            '

deficient in the very first principles of practical astronomy; you suspect not,
                                                                                                    it

because you have not been thoroughly searched into; and the reason why this

is  not generally known and generally regarded, is, because but few, perhaps

not above one in 100,000, earnestly concern themselves about astronomy.' As
to the famous Luna-Solar Radix, or the true position of the Sun and Moon,

with respect to each other at the very instant of their creation, by which the
age of the world to be accurately determined, this, our author informs us,
is
   a

                  '
                                  is

                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                          p.
    mere scriptural datum,' and could 'never have been ascertained by the

w" id6e7l,y40d3i,f2fe8r5e,2nt11,f8ro8m4,72t4hatsoglaivr eonr  in foot note    at page   31 of this letter, viz.
                                                              tropical years  and 125  days," which, although

reduced to Julian years, would he at least 47,000 greater than given at 254.
432 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

arutcst penetration of the human mind! ' non sagacissima ing nii Newtoniani

vi.'

But he has not told us where this unscrutable secret is disclosed, nor does

he seem to possess the true key for discovering it. Mr. F. has clearly con

victed both his principles and calculations of unpardonable errors in a variety
of instances; we are therefore sorry to find that he has yet published only the
first part of his defence, and that more is to follow, on his intentions. Should
Mr. K. resume this involved and intricate inquiry to which no disciple of
Hutchinson seems equal, we hope that he will discover a greater portion of
the true spirit of philosophy, and make some apology for the very illiberal
reflections which he has cast on his antagonist. On his integrity as well as
                                            the following, as Mr. F. has quoted it.
on his judgment,   we  could not     read  Historical evidence has no more weight
without concern   and  indignation.   --'

irith me, nor makes any impression upon my mind, than the reveries nf a sirk
man's dream ; though heaven may have given a sanction to its truth.' Let our
readers peruse the modest Astronomer's defence. ' Disengenuous Sir! al

Ithough you and always differed widely in our sentiments with respect to
IAstronomy, had a good opinion of your heart till now, and believed you to
be a well-meaning man, a searcher for divine truth, and a sincere Christian.
What you have here said w ould wound my very soul, if it were true. But as
heaven knows it to be false, and you dare not lay your hand upon your heart
Iand say, Before God it is true ; seeing you never had the least ground for it
either from my ac tions, my writings, or my conversations,  now look upon
you to be below my farther notice ! Nevertheless, I sincerely wish you a bet

ter mind, and do bid you heartily farewell."

   Kennedy, in the Letters appended to his pamphlet, entitled,
" Explanation and Proof," replied to the foregoing reprint of

1763 ; it is somewhat curious that he did not do so at the time

they appeared. The reply is in his usual fashion ; but here

quotation may be spared. Shortly after the publication of these

scurrilous letters, Ferguson addressed a third letter to Kennedy

on account of his abusive treatment of Astronomical Authors.

This third and last letter to Kennedy was written and published

in July, 1775, in the form of an octavo pamphlet of 16 pages.
The following is copy of its title-page, --we give the letter in full.

      " A Third Letter to the Rev. Mr. John Kennedy, on Account of
      his abusive treatment of Astronomical Authors. By James Fer
                       London : Printed in the year m.dcclxxv."
      guson, F.R.S.          (Dated July 19th, 1775).

   " Reverend Sir,
                            In your two last pamphlets of letters, the

one to the Rev. Dr. Blair, and the other to me, you have been
pleased to call my Lunar Tables and Calculations a mere ridi
culous farce, and shameful imposition upon the intelligent

Reader : you have complained of your great unhappiness in
having such a weak, illiterate, and incompetent Antagonist as
                        JAMES FEIIOUSON.                    433

me to deal with ; whom, you say, must have been either deliri
ous or intoxicated when I calculated from your lunar measures,
Iand found fault with them ; you have told me that have ' a
                                '
scrap of reputation to  lose :     that   you   have   much to reprove
me for, and much to     teach      me :  that         fallen very low in
                                               I am

your esteem ; and that 1 have found an Eclipse of the Moon in

September, the year before Christ 201, hvo days before the

Moon was full ; besides having fallen into many other enormous

errors and blunders, with which whole pages might be filled.

   But it would be well for you if the errors and blunders you
charge me with could not, with the strictest j ustice, be retorted

upon yourself, by every person who understands Astronomy ;

although, perhaps, some of those who do not may be staggered

Iby your bold assertions. However, this am pretty sure of,

that no person, who has deigned to read your two absurd pam

phlets, will reckon me so weak as you have termed me, for having

taken notice of these abusive and illiberal publications ; by which

you have quite debased your own character as a gentleman, a

disciple of Moses, and a Minister of the Gospel of Christ.

Whatever was the matter with you when you charged me

with the above-mentioned error of two days in calculating the

Eclipse of the Moon in September, the year before Christ 201,

I shall not pretend to determine ; but can with truth assert,

that, if you trust to yotir own measure of a mean Lunation,

your charge against me was altogether false and groundless.

For, the whole difference between your measures and mine

amounts not quite to 26 hours in 5770 years ; How then is it

possible that there should be two days between us in 1964

years? If you have wilfully falsified your own measures, in

order to make people believe mine are wrong, as you formerly

did Meyer's and Ptolemy's, by mixing some of your own num

bers with them ; or, if you have calculated the time of that full

Moon and Eclipse from a radix different from that of your ori

ginal Mosaic full Moon, which, according to your account, was

I24 hours before there was a Sun to enlighten her, I cannot help

it. Be that as it may, think proper to inform you that the

time of the said full Moon and Eclipse (which you say is two

days wrong by my calculation) has very lately been calculated
by an able hand, from Meyer's Lunar Tables, published by the

Board of Longitude, and which, from the most accurate obser

                                   3I
434 KXTENDED MEMOIR OF

vations, have been very seldom found to err above one minute
of a degree in the Moon's place : and they make the time of
that very Eclipse to have been but t wo minutes and a half

sooner than I have made it from my own Tables and Calcula
tions. Tis true, that because Meyer's Tables differ from your

measures, you have said they are no Lunar Tables at all.3*0 But
are you weak enough to believe that your bare word will he
taken for this, by any man who has the least knowledge of As
tronomy ; or will it not rather tend to sink all your publications

into a general disrepute ?

    1 hope you are not quite so ignorant as not to know that the
length or measure of a Lunation depends entirely upon the
times in which the Sun and Moon go round the Ecliptic. The

former of these you have asserted to be 36o days 5 hours 49
minutes ; and numberless observations have proved the latter to

be 27 days 7 hours 43 minutes 5 seconds (misprinted 4 seconds
in my book of Astronomy).

   Now, if you understand enough of common Arithmetic (which
I have great reason to doubt of) to enable you to calculate
from these numbers, you will find that the length of the mean

Lunation must be 29 days 12 hours 44 minutes 3 seconds 7
thirds and 2ti fourths, which is 1 second 22 thirds and 26 fourths

more than your assumed and unscientific measure makes it*04

pftS3Siiaideenmp,3cceds0tt.rii"3i,oonnnMAgmrSe24geeytdtumhceh,mtr,eoi'o"sernn"aMATtnrsOoa1dgobnsauftnluem'trirsshsee.etlne--ahPtEnetsliqWtaviMutecfeloaeeotrdotoh,onrtub'ihvsatye"hel E,eMPMsqrPeoiueneaoapyTnrtaFaeoa'rserlbralir'alatLsgeolaxusrt,,TysiPtoauwhanbdAoh'rslerariegci,zl'suhl'aoa;mun"xotites,oaf"ngilwettrsnahdo,itp"ifisicathwhmle,dohdeiftvio,htcwnieehdrhree,"ai"dtchhPael4arrrieneetcrhgt.c,o2eeae.rrbpeefsetohSsai3ueenrecreg;ttfiaso1ornanc4odru-.f

explanation.     this  question, -- Rule -- Multiply the time* together and       divide  the
   304 To solve

product by their difference.    Kennedy assumed the    lwehnegnthdeocfima aslolylarexoprrestsreodpic=al
year to be 365 days 5 hours   4f min. exactly, which,

                       The periodical  revolution of the Moon   is done       in
                       expressed, is    27 '32158565, -- then,
=365-24236111 days.                                                               27 d.   7 h.

43 m. 5 s. ; decimally
  d.                            d.
365-24236111               X 27-3215S565  = 9979-QOO452Q75O94O715
and 27-32158565-365-24236111 = 337 -9207754600000000
                                  = =-92077546OO0OOOO0
9979 0004520750940715-^337                             29 -530591 71 4 days              29 d.
12 h. 44 m. 3 s. 7 thds. 26-7225 fourths, which agrees with Ferguson's period
above, with the exception of '7225 dec. of a fourth ; perhaps the difference arises
from Ferguson having a lower ratio of decimals than we have used. It is not
very likely that Kennedy was equal to the solving of such a question, at least he
never offered to do so in print.
  =Suppose
=and of the
the length             of  the year  to == 865  d. 5h. 48 m. 55 s.       365  24230324    d.,
Moon, 27               d.   7 h. 43  m. 5 s.                         365 d.   -24230324
                                                 27 d. -32158565,--                       =

337 92071759d lor a divisor. 365-24230324x27-3->158565=9989988709749325O6O
                                                     JAMES FERGUSON.                                               435

And herein you differ so far from yourself, as to prove, that, if
you have given the true length of the solar tropical year, your
measure of the Lunation is absolutely false, and can have no
foundation in nature.

   It appears that the late eminent Astronomer, Dr. Pound, did

not find the length of the Solar tropical Year to be 365 days 5
hours and quite 49 minutes ; and therefore, according to him,
t he length or measure of the mean Lunation is 29 days 12 hours

I44 minutes 3 seconds 2 thirds 58 fourths. This measure have

kept by, in making my Lunar Tables, and it is 1 second 17
thirds 58 fourths more than you have assumed for the length of
it; which difference between your lunation measure and mine,

multiplied by the number of Lunations in 5770 years, amounts
to 1 day 1 hour 45 minutes in that time.305 But as, in your
pamphlet just published in this present year, you assert that

there are two days' difference between us in 1964 years (viz.
from the year before Christ 201 to A.d. 1764), which, of course.

=-=-337 92071759                  29.1. -5305929, or, 29 d. 12h. 44 m. 3s. 13 6 thds. ; again, take
=the length of the year at 365 d. 5h. 48 iuin. 57 sec. 365 24232639, and that
39o6f9589th29e1925302s63id35e94r9e=6a4l 033p3e07r3i59o2--d03743o07f7-49th2e0f7o4rM0oa7o4dni=,viso2279r,.1d..an'53d320155398616596-35242=; 32t2h69e3n9d,x. 21722-73h2,.3125414855m865.5635=--s.
8 6 fourths. In this letter, Ferguson mentions that in his calculations he adopted
Dr. Pound's measure of a lunation, viz. 29 d. 12 h. 44 m. 3 s. 2thds. 58 fourths.
It is evident that such a measure was not obtained hy Dr. Pound from any of
these values of a year, but from a period greater than 365 d. 5 h. 48 m. 57 s.

    The mean tropical revolution of the Earth is now found to consist of 365 d.
=5 h. 48 m. 51 -6 s. 365-242264 d., and a sidereal revolution of the Moon, 27.1.
= =7h. 43 m. 4-6675 s.
                                          27 -321582 .lays.           Therefore, 365-212264 X 27-321582
= =99997788999966446655774411664488,-^33a7n-9d2026782-32158=2--2396-553-2045282864days337-920682 foradivisor; thus,
                                                                                           29 d. 12h. 44m. 288s.,

3the mean standard length of the lunation, as used in modern calculations.
          The more accurate observations of recent times show, that a mean lunation
consists of 29 d. 12 h. 44 m. 2 s. 52 thirds 49 fourths. Therefore, Ferguson's
                     .1.                                 thirds       fourths a
                                1                       fourths       877 fourths
                                   4
period of 29 12 h.                                                                      period too    slow of the
average period by                                                                       slow in a     lunation.
                                    44 m.       s.3              =26   it                                          mean
                                     thirds     38 a                       a is 1 is                               Ken

                                                       7                              7
                                                                                                                                       is
tnedy's assumed period consists of                          29 d. 12 h.   44  m.        Is. 45 thirds nett,   =an4d069
 herefore a period too fast in mean                          lunation    by     s.
                                                                                           thirds 49 fourths

fourths fa.it in mean lunation. From thisa                                    obvious that neither Ferguson

nor Kennedy had the true mean average period of lunation.                                             of the
   The true mean               --pertihouds,of       lunation    lies nearly          the middle
Kennedy periods,                                the                           in                              Ferguson-

                   Ferguson's period.                                                 Kennedy's period.
29.1. 12 44 m. s. thds. 26 fourths -4-29 12 44 m. Is. 45 thds. fourths
= =59d. 12 h. 28 m s. 52 thirds 26 fourths-~2 29d. 12 44 m. s. 26 thds.
=13 fourths mean of these two periods, which only 26 thirds 36 fourths minus
5                              3                                      d.                              2
                                    4                                      is                               0
   h. d. It
                                       7                                        h.
           is                                                                             a
                 h.
the true mean average length.                                                                     h.
                   singular that Kennedy should have had such very minute period as
                                                       for   his lunation,    and an abrupt
29    12 h.           44  m.   1  s. 45 thirds       --     period ending     in minutes.             period  of 365  d.
    49 m.            for  his   tropical year
                                                        a
436 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

would amount to 5 days and about 21 hours in 5770 years, it is

plain that you have wilfully falsified your own Lunation-

measure, in order to make the few readers of that abusive pam

phlet believe that I have made this egregious error. But you

have acknowledged, in your Scripture Chronology, that you was

obliged, in one case, to throw off 'a redundant day} without

which, it seems you found it impossible to make your measures
agree with the times. This, in fact, is redundant nonsense :

for, can you possibly imagine that the celestial Luminaries had

no motion throughout the whole of that day? and I believe you

will not say that it was the Day on which the Sun and Moon

stood still at the word of Joshua; for I can swear that I heard

you say your Scheme could not be any way affected by that

event.

   And now 'tis plain, that as your Lunation-measure agrees
neither with your own length of the solar-tropical year, nor
with the Astronomers' length thereof, it has no foundation in
nature ; and consequently (to use your own words concerning
the Lunar Tables of Astronomers), ' can claim no higher title
than that of-- Speciosai Ifugce.'

   But I might have saved myself the time and trouble of prov

ing your lunation-measure to be false, seeing that you yourself
have demonstrated it to be so in your System of Astronom ical
Chronology Unfolding the Scriptures. For, in the Calculation
you have there given of the great total Eclipse of the Sun, in
the year before Christ 603, which put an end to the long war
between the Modes and Lydians (as related by Herodotus), by
over-spreading both the Armies, and frightening them with a
sudden darkness, you make the Sun to have been some houis
set below the horizon of the field of battle when that Eclipse
became total But my Tables (which you altogether despise)
make the time of that Eclipse, at the same place, to have ln?en
at 15 minutes past 11 o'clock in the Forenoon, on the liSth of
 May, the very day on which the said battle was to be fought,
 according to your Chronology. So that, where you keep by
your own numbers, we differ not quite 10 hours in 2300 years.

If you had done so in the former Case, the difference would

have been still less ; although you have called it two days, which
is your own wilful blunder.

     Upwards of fifty years ago, which was long before you wrote
                               JAMES FERGUSON.                           437

for the press, Sir Jonas More and Dr Keili, adopted 365

days 5 hours 49 minutes for the length of the solar-tropical

year, and framed Tables of mean motion agreeable thereto.

And because (as you say) I have mentioned the same length in

my Book of Astronomy, you have had the assurance to tell me
I I Ithat pirated this length from you.
                                                         confess cannot find
Ithe place : and if have done so, it must have been done to

avoid [always] tiring the reader's patience with seconds, thirds,

and fourths; having at Section 251 and 371 mentioned the

length to be 365 days 5 hours 48 minutes 57 seconds.308 But

this is much the same with a former printed charge you brought

against me, about having purloined something from you into

my Book of Astronomy ; although that Book was printed several

years before your Scriptural Chronology was put to the press.307
   Fie upon it! miserable, and desperately bad must your Cause

be, when, instead of endeavouring to defend it by truth (which

indeed is out of your power) you thus descend to falsehood and
Iabuse.
         apprehend that you yourself are sensible it is so;

although the meanness of your soul, and greatness of your

pride, will not suffer you to own it : and now, for these reasons,

I am not,

                      Reverend Sir,

Bolt Court, Fleet Street,         Your humble Servant,
              July 19, 1775."                        James Ferguson."

                               London,

  I" P.S.-- do not find you yet have answered the Scrupulous

Calculator touching your blunders in computing two Lunations
in the Egyptian and Julian Styles, in Lloyd's Evening Post,

No. 2663. Indeed, Sir, there is a vulgar proverb against you.
And although you was afterwards solemnly called upon, for

   306 It is surprising that Ferguson should here note that he could not find out
the place in his Astronomy where he had given 365 d. 5 h. 49 m. as the length of
the tropical year. Such a length is given by him in Section 47 of his Astronomy.
Our copy, the quarto edition of 1764, gives the tropical period of the Earth round
the Sun of various lengths, -- viz.

At page 13 and Section 47th of our quarto edition, the length of the year is stated
                                                                        to be 365 d. 5 h. 49 m.

                       353, the length given is 365 d. 5 h. 48 m. 55 s.
-l197 do.
,", 108  d,o.          246     I>-             d,o.          3o.6.c5 di. o h. 4<8o m. 5r-/ s.
         do.           371     )    published            1756. Kennedy's " Complete Sys
,, 2o5

307 Ferguson's Astronomy was                         in

tem of Chronology Unfolding the Scriptures," in 1762; hence, Ferguson dates G

years before Kennedy.
438 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

good reasons, by the Editor of Lloyd's Evening Post, to let the
world know from whence you took your Quotation of a Letter
(as you say) from Ricciolus to Kepler, cited in your Epistle
to Dr. Blair, you thought proper to be silent ; and why? because
the Scrupulous Calculator has absolutely foiled you.303

  But, I hope you will not refuse to answer the Lover of Astro

nomy's Letter to you in Lloyd's Evening Post, No. 2802, for
Wednesday, the 14th of June this year; because, no doubt, you
think of yourself what you have said of me ; namely, that yon-
have a scrap of reputation to lose. Perhaps you will say
you have not seen this Evening Post ; and therefore, that you

may not pretend ignorance. I shall subjoin a copy of that

Letter."

' To the Reverend Mr. John Kennedy.

   Reverend Sir,
                            As you have hit upon such an exact measure

of a Lunation, that you can thereby ascertain the true time of
any New or Full Moon, past or to come, without any of those
numerous Equations used by Astronomers, which you have
affirmed are unnecessary, unastronomical, and intended by

   30s In  Lloyd's   Evening   Post   for May 13-- 16th, 1774, there is a            long letter
            to the  editor by        Scrupulous Calculator," reflecting on            Kennedy's
addressed                      "A
tre"atmSier,nt of him, --he begins,
           In my Letter published in this Taper, No. 2t515, p. 313, addressed t"
the Rev. Mr. Kennedy, 1 pointed out some mistakes made by him in a pamphlet
lately published, in his Calculations, especially in his Computation of the mean
Full Moon in the month Thoth, anno Nalmnass. 27, as being connected with the
Julian Style, by using a different Radix from whence he intended to compute.
Since which, 1 find a letter inserted in your Paper, No. 2625, p. 395, wherein
the Author does not show the justness or unjustness of my Remarks, but instead

of defending his computation, proposes for me to calculate that mean lunation in
the Egyptian and Julian styles as he has set me an examplc.* This I shall pru
dently decline ; first, because if 1 follow his example, 1 must likewise blunder;

tand secondly, because I am truly sensible, unless I plough with his Heifer, he

will not permit me to be right, and 1 shall undergo the hard fate of Ptolemy,
Meyer, and others, whose mean lunations were in a most astonishing and absurd
manner tortured, tried, condemned, and executed, in his Astron. Chron., p. 252

to 273. I therefore choose to take his advice, and make my appeal to the Pub

lic, and take my chance with other Scribblers for a favourable decision."                                          the
                                                                                     abstruse calculations to      We
   Then    follows three  closely-printed                         columns  "oAf      Scrupulous Calculator."
complete    overthrow of  Kennedy, and is                         signed,
have the leaf of Lloyd's Paper on which this learned letter appears. At loot we
find written, "Mr. Fisher,                                         with an asterisk             to out
                               Athtteorn" eSyc-arut-pLualwou,"s   Calculator."       referring
above, showing that he was

*  AThuicsthaeprpeiuasrtsamto-ehaovfeKbeenennedKye'snne" dwya'sy  way to get out of  a dilemma when pressed,
t                                                                 "--every one was   wrong who differed from 1dm.
                                      JAMES FERGUSON.                                439

Meyer, and the other Table-makers, only to correct the defi

ciency of their mean measures ; you would oblige the purchasers

of your Chronology, and others, if you would send to the Printer
of this Paper, as soon as you can, the true time of Full Moon

in July, 1776, deduced from your own Epocha, Lunation, and

Tables, together with the Calculus, in order to show that you

have not mixed the numbers of any other person with your own.

If your predicted time answers to the Observation as near as

the time deduced from other Tables, it will be the means of

proving the superior value of your Radix and Measures above

all others ; but, if you decline this Proof, your former assertions

will be treated as mere Chimeras.

                                       A Lover of Astronomy.'

    To this Kennedy made no reply.              (See his treatment of " A
Scrupulous Calculator," note 308).
                                               1775, we hear no more of
   And from this date, July 19th,

Kennedy, until his death in 1782.3IJ(J

  The Art of Drawing in Perspective, &c. -- Although Fer

guson was now in indifferent health, he could not remain idle.
During the summer of this year, he wrote and published " The

Art of Drawing Made Easy." This work is an octavo of 124

pages, embellished with nine folding copperplate engravings,
and, like all of Ferguson's other works, this one on Perspective
is written in plain and simple language, and is perhaps still the

best introductory Treatise on Perspective that can be put into

the hands of the young student. The editions of this work are
of the years 1775 --1778,-- 1803-- 1807,-- 1810,-- 1823, &c. ;
that of 1823 was published by Sir David Brewster in his

" Ferguson's Essays." The annexed is a copy of its title-page :--

      " The Art of Drawing in Perspective Made Easy to those who have
       no previous knowledge of the Mathematics. By James Ferguson.

hav3e00bKeeennn"eday,pefrrfoecmt  every source of information we have     arnedceivseedlf,-coanpcpeeiat rs"   to
                                  specimen of arrogance, pride, vanity,
                                               knew little or nothing of                                     :--
                                               master therein ; another
another account assures           us  that he                             Practical  usA, sttrhoantom" yh,e
although he assumed to            be  a great                             informs

was a man most fluent and flippant in speech, never at a loss for a word," and
that "his vocabulary required to be corrected and reprinted."
On applying to the present rector of Bradley for notes on Mr. Kennedy, he
very kindly suplied us with the following, which is copied from the stone cover
M" rT. heKeRnenve. dMy'sr.         at Bradley, Derbyshire,   -- viz.
                            grave  Kennedy Died Feb. 4th,   1782, wied
                            John
Ifing                                                                     84.  He wa» Rertor
of the Parish, of Hradleu 48 yean.
and learned man con»uit his Book."             thou teonldst know more of this good
440 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Illustrated with Plates. London : Printed for W. Strachan and T.
tJadell in the Strand, mocclxxv."

Ferguson's constitution, " always feeble " (according to the
late Mr. Andrew Reid, so often quoted), " now began to show
symptoms of breaking up-- he was now often unwell and con
                        "                                                    " it
fined to  his   room  ;    and   when  he was able  to walk         abroad,

was with an unsteady and feeble step." He was now also
" greatly afflicted with gravel, so much so, that many a night

he was kept from sleeping by the severity of his pains."

Notwithstanding his impaired health, he was always engaged

in some favourite study or pursuit. At commencement of his

preface to this work on Perspective, he thus feelingly alludes

to the state of his health, and its consequent influence on the

mind :--

   " In my infirm state of health, a situation that is very apt to atfect the

Imental faculties, I thought my last book on Mechanical Exercises would have
been the last book should ever publish. But, as I have been constantly

accustomed to   an active life,   and to consider idleness   as an   unsupportable
                of late amused   myself at intervals, as my  usual  business would
burden, I have
permit, with studying Perspective, &c."

   Thus, at intervals of his usual business, and it may be sup
posed when free from pain, he amused himself in writing this

Treatise.310

Equation Rotula. -- During the year 1775, Ferguson made

several Rotulas for showing the Equation of Time; he also com

puted an Equation Table for the second year after leap years.

We have one of the Rotulas, a small one, in an unfinished state

J(on a                     inches); so far as   it goes, it consists of a
                                                within the exterior one
series                     circles-- round and
card 4 by 3£
of concentric
in unequally divided spaces --are the names of the Days of

the Month ; in next circle, the days of the Month irregularly

numbered, against which, in another circle, are the minutes ot

time to be added or subtracted as the Clock or Watch is Faster

or Slower; and in the interior circle are, in unequally divided
spaces, "Sun Faster than the Clock,"-- ''Sun Slotver than the
Clock" -- " Sun Faster," and " Sun Slower," showing how the

Clock or Watch is to be set. The interior of the circle is blank,

   310 This   will remind   the reader of many  recorded instances of men of letters
and science,    who, like  Ferguson, worked up  to the last ;--of Archimedes and hi5

Problem ; of Copernicus and his celebrated work on Astronomy; of Sir Isaac
Newton, Dr. Didtou, &c.
                              JAMES FERGUSON.                                                      441

                              J.

                                       it,
                                                       is
as also a space on the card below evidently intended for Ex
planation and Directions. " F., 1775 "
                                                                       in the lower right

hand corner of the card.

Murdoch Ferguson. --To the kindness of E. Balfour, Esq.,

Secretary of the Royal College of Surgeons, we are indebted for

the following extract from the College Record --

      " Mr. Murdoch Ferguson obtained, on the 6th July, 1775, from the
       Court of Examiners, the Certificate of Qualification of Surgeon to
       Regiment; also, Mr. Murdoch Ferguson, on the 7th November,
       1776, passed as Surgeon to Ship of the first rate."
                              a

                                                           a by :

                                                                                                a
Shortly after Murdoch received his Certificate of Qualifica

tion as Surgeon to a Regiment, we find,                                a notice in the
         a

London Gazetteer, that he was married to Miss Vincent of

Royal Hill, Greenwich, on lfith August. The following letter

from his father to the Rev. Mr. Cooper of Glass, Banffshire,

refers, among other matters, to this union.

Letter from Ferguson to the Rev. Mr. Cooper-- The

original of the following interesting letter from Ferguson to his

friend the Rev. Mr. Cooper of Glass, Banffshire,                       in our pos
                                                                       is
session --311
         :                                                                is

                     I                                                          aa I
" Reverend Sir, -- now take the pleasure of sending you, by my youngest

son,312 an Analysis of my Course of Lectures, my Pamphlet on the Doctrine

of Eclipses, and my three printed letters to Mr. Kennedy, whom 'tis as im

possible to silence as to still the waves of the raging sea.313 On sending him

my printed Letter, he wrote me very abusive and threatening one, the pur
I
  I

        I
            II

                                       (a
                                              a

                                                               ;
                                                                    a

                                            I
port of which you will easily guess at when you read the inclosed copy of the

answer wrote thereto.

   My eldest son Surgeon) was married about three weeks ago, and have
been obliged to give him his Portion, which has left me so little money, that

am afraid shall not be able to send you any Books this year.

thank you for your kind inquiry about my health, which rather better

than when wrote last to you but am still much afflicted with the Gravel,

which, sometimes for fortnight together, does not allow me to sleep quar

ter of an hour at any time through the whole night.

'in " The Reverend Mr. Cooper was inducted minister of the Parish of Glass
in the year 1755, and died in 1795, aged 78, and in the 40th year of his ministry.
He was an old and much-valued friend of Ferguson's." (Extracted from letter
from the Rev. Mr. Duguid, present minister of Glass).
   312 This refers to his son John, who would be about taking his departure at
the time for his Classes at Marischal College, Aberdeen.

   313 About months after the date of this lettor, Ferguson again      wrote Mr.
Cooper, and presented him with his three printed letters to Kennedy.
         it                                                             If Fergu

                   7

                                                    3
                                                        K
son had forgotten he had already sent copies of these letters to his Reverend
friend,  shows that his memory was giving way in the spring of 177(i. (See

page 145 for second letter).
442 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

My Sister is very well here, and desires her best respects to you.314 Be so

good as to send for my sister Elspeth, and slip the three Guineas quietly into

her hand which you will find here inclosed ; and tell her that two of theiu are

Ifor herself, and the third fur her daughter Jeusey. -- am, with great respect.

                                 Reverend Sir,

                                             Your most obliged humble servant,                  515
                                                                              James Ferguson."

No. 4 in Bolt Court, Fleet Street,
        London, Sept. 12th, 1775.

The above shows that Ferguson sent to Kennedy a copy of

his last  printed letter (letter third)  ; that   in return he had
received  an " abusive and threatening         "   that he answered
                                         one
                                              ;

Kennedy's rough letter, and had inclosed in this letter a copy

of the answer for his Reverend friend. We have that copy,

perhaps now the only one in existence-- it is very smart, and

would, no doubt, prove a bitter dose to one so singularly self-

conceited and arrogant It is as follows :--

" Reverend Sir,

                 I received your letter dated the 2d instant, and do
Iconfess, that before I could be qualified to answer it properly,
                                                                   ought to go
a week to Billingsgate in order to learn proper language. I am now called

Poor James Ferguson, an ignorant, illiterate, stupid blockhead and Dunce;

with many other such vilifying Epithets as any one but poor proud John

Kennedy would have been ashamed of.
   You now tell me that you think yourself somebody -- that you have put a

gag in my mouth -- that you shall be a Gad-fly to pursne, gall, and stiug me
--that you will exalt your puissant arm and sharp-edged Sicord, bravely to

fight your way ! ! !

   A Gad-fly to pretend to be somebody! I have indeed heard that that little

pestiferous Insect has a sting in its tail; but never knew before that it had a
puissant arm, or that it could wield a sharp-edged Sicord. A Flapper is pre

paring for this Gad-fly.

  The many errors and blunders I have hitherto charged you with you have
thought proper to pass over in silence --not one of them have you offered to

deny the justness of, or to refute ; but have, aa you say of me, cowardly de
clined, and flown off to some other thing. You now want me to calculate
Ptolemy's Eclipses from Ptolemy's data according to the Egyptian Style.

IWhen you have cleared yourself of what have formerly charged you with, and

have convinced the world that you have truly reduced the days of the Egyp-

   3M This was Ferguson's sister Janet. She appears to have left Banffshire fof
London in July, 1773, to nurse Mrs. Ferguson, who was then unwell, and who
shortly afterwards died. She remained after her death, and had charge of Fef
guson's household affairs till his death, when she returned to the north.

   315 For this letter, and for the copy of the one Ferguson sent to the Rev. Mr
Kennedy, we are indebted to the kindness of the Kev. Mr. Thomson of Fetteresso,
iu Kincardineshire, who, in 1S61, kindly presented them to us.
                                   JAMES FERGUSON.                            443

tian months to the days of the Julian months ; and that, without cooking and

Imutilating even your own numerical measures you can make your Calcula

tions agree with the recorded times of these Eclipses, shall be willing to
comply with your desire.

  IAll that have hitherto charged you with is but little in comparison with

what is yet to come out. The way you have treated the Lunations oi Ptolemy

and Meyer shall be exposed to the public more fully than has yet been done;

and (what is new) the way that you have cooked, mutilated, and tortured your
own Lunation-measure shall be detected and exposed. You have said that

2S( days 12 hours 44 min. 1 sec. 45 thirds is the exact mathematical measure

of a mean Lunation,31« and that the least particle of time can neither be added
thereto, nor subtracted therefrom, without doing violence to nature, as the

Lunations follow one another in an uninterrupted succession, like the equal
Iflinks of a chain.
                     so, what in the name of that Stranger called common

sense could induce you to throw off a redundant day at the end of 49680
Lunations, reckoned downward from your original Radix, and there to make a
short link in your Lunation-Chain I according to this Doctrine of yours, the
whole is less than all its parts put together.

   It shall be proved that you have thrown off this redundant day in your

Practice almost 757 years before the time appointed by your Theory; and

that, by no less than 21 well-vouched Eclipses, your Theory diners from your

coaxed Practice. These Eclipses you will acknowledge to be disinterested
evidence, if you have even the least regard for truth, although they undoubt

edly prove that all your errors and blunders have arisen from your having
tixed your original Full Moon too late, and made your Lunation-measure too

short, and then it will be manifest that the errors and blunders you charge
me with are all your own. The Calculations in your Scripture Chronology

shall be analyzed, and Kennedy shall be set against Kennedy, like a House

Idivided against itself. thought proper to inform you of all this before-hand,

in order to convince you that you have neither gagged my mouth (as you say

you have)--that I have not like a dastardly Coward (as you say in your true
IBillingsgate style) quitted the Field with precipitate Plight; and that am

neither afraid of your Gad-fly sting, nor of your puissant arm and sharp-edged
Sword.TM

  Remember that I shall not answer any written Letter of yours after this date
I-- it is neither worth my while, nor have time to throw away to so little

purpose, who am,

                         Reverend Sir, (I should have said

                                   most Reverend Gad-fly)

London, Aug. 16th, 1775.              your well wisher, tho' not

The above is the Copy of a Letter to                  your humble Servant,
   the Rev. Mr. John Kennedy, Rector                            James Ferc>uson."
   of Bradley, in Derbyshire."

*c.      Regarding the length of the mean lunation, see former notes on Kennedy,

    31"  Ferguson's state of heal  th prevented him   from publishing    his  observations,
         the Reverend Gad-fly"     therefore escaped  the infliction of  the  "flapper."
and "
444 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   Ferguson's Household. --At the close of this year, his
household was reduced to three persons, --viz. Ferguson him
self, his sister Janet, and a domestic servant. His son Murdoch,

then lately married, had an establishment of his own. John,
the youngest son, was attending the Classes at Marischal Col
lege, Aberdeen. And, as previously mentioned, his sister Janet
came to London, in the summer of 1773, to attend on Mrs. Fer
guson, who was then on her death-bed. This sister remained
with Ferguson until his death in Nov. 1776.

                                                     177C.

   Money Bequeathed to Ferguson. --Our first note for 1770

refers to a considerable sum of money which had been be

queathed to Ferguson by a relative who died about the begin
ning of this year, but by whom, and the sum left, we have been
unable to learn. The Artisan or Mechanics' Instructor, vol. 1st, p
235, notes, " that he left behind him a sum to the amount of about

Six thousand pounds." The Practical Mechanics and Engineers'
Magazine, vol. 1., p. 176, says, " he left upwards of £6000 at hi=
death," --and one of the obituary notices in the Appendix, that
"he bequeathed to different Legatees, at his death, above £5000.''

And "A Plain honest man " who defends him (in the Appendix),

and who knew Ferguson, speaks of " the few thousands he left
behind him, which came to him a very short time before he
died, by means of the death of a near relation.'' From the*
accounts it appears that Ferguson, about ten months before his
death, had bequeathed to him by a near relative, " a few thou
sand pounds," but which he did not live to enjoy.3is

Table of the Equation of Time. --In the month of March,

31s If Ferguson received these " few thousand pounds " only about ten months                                                                                           I
before his death, it is  otMbhuvairtodu:oscfohtr.h, aitnHhheeisrmeWucesitilvleh,advheheismbe"eepnnotirpotonisossnetshs"eadtathoetfhaehacdtoinmeseixdpeeornaf dbh*l"e!
sum of his own before                                                          pp. 441, 442), but
upwards of £1100 on                                of date Sept. 12th,          one, ami supplr-
                                                   may have been a
Willmarriage, in August,

it is possible that
                     th1e775"  (pseoertiloentte"r                       1775,
                                                                        small
mented on receipt of the legacy. In the            we find no sum stated as to the

gross amount he had, but £'200 was to be set aside for his daughter Agnes, should
she east up in distressed circumstances. Three of his sisters had £290 among
them. John, the son, on reaching 21, was to get £1100, and then Murdoch ud
he was to get equal halves of the balance, and the three executors had £30 among
them as a mark of    easntedemres; idthuues,"  all these sums (omitting the £1100) amount t«
£1620, -- "the rent                            sum noted was to be equally divided betw«c
Murdoch and John, on the latter attaining his 21st year, in February, I7S0.
        JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                    445

1776, appeared Ferguson's last publication, a sheet Table of the

Equation of Time, probably printed from his equation compu

tations in the previous year.   Along the top of the sheet in a

long line is the following :--

" Table of the Equation of Time, Showing the Equation of Time for
Leap Year, and the First, Second, and Third Year thereafter. By
James Ferguson, F.R.S., 1776."

And at foot of the sheet we find,

" Sold by the Author at No. 4 Bolt Court, Fleet Street. Pric« One
Shilling."

This is a very scarce publication, so much so, that when it is

to be had, from five to ten shillings is asked for                                         The copy
                                     is
which we had long in our possession                       it.
                                     now in the Museum of

Banff.

   The Northcote Likeness of Ferguson Published. --This

likeness of Ferguson, the first ever published, was painted by
Northcote, and published on March 20th, 1776, just about eight

months before his death, when in the 66th year of his age. It

has always appeared to us that this likeness could not possibly

be correct --much too youthful and gay for a careworn man of 66.

When his publisher, Mr. Cadell, brought out the second edition
of Ferguson's " Select Mechanical Exercises," on 1st January,
1778, he rejected this likeness for the frontispiece to this work,
and inserted one taken from the Townsend print, published in
December, 1776. Mr. Cadell having done this, shows that the
Townsend likeness was the correct one. We have copy of this
likeness by Northcote. Within a broad rimmed oval, on an en
graved oblong ground 12$ by 10 inches, the likeness of Fer
guson facing the right, draped in a fur-necked cloak or mantle,
with book in left hand, and another close by lettered " Nevjton

Phil." and underneath as follows --

                   " James Northcote pinx*. -- F. Haward fecit." 319
Published March 20th, 1776, for W. Shropshire, No. 158 New Bond Street.
a
                                                                          :

                                                                       is
                                                                                        a
   319 James Northcote, the celebrated Painter, was born at Plymouth in 1746.
He came to London in 1771, being then in bis 25th year, and was for five years
after that time the pupil of Sir Joshua Reynolds. In 1776, he set up for himself
as Portrait painter. He died in bis house, Argyle Street, Loudon, on Kith
July, 1831, aged 85. Ferguson's likeness, by Northcote, was done in March,

1776. It must have been his earliest, or one of his earliest efforts on his own

account.
446 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

   A half size copy from this likeness is given in the Library of

Entertaining Knowledge, vol. L, p. 208. The publishers of
which volume do not seem to have been aware of its rejection

by Ferguson's publisher. (See note on the Townsend likeness
of Ferguson in the Appendix).

  Ferguson's (supposed) Last Letter extant. -- On April 10th,

1776, Ferguson wrote a long and interesting letter to the Rev.
Mr. Cooper of Glass, Banffshire, regarding the origin of his
Mechanical Paradox, &c., which, so far as known, is the last let

ter extant written by him (being dated seven months before his
death). Instead of placing it here, under the year of its date,
it was made to follow the description of the Mechanical Para

dox, under date 17">0 (pages 145 -- 148); that was considered

the more appropriate place, and to which the reader is referred ;
but as there are some remarks at the beginning of this letter

unconnected with the Paradox, we shall here reproduce the first

ten lines of and give notes on them,--
I it
        is
        I it
                    it,
                                  a
                                 I
                                 I
                                                                        is

                                                                                                                                         a
'' Reverend and Dear Sir, -- am glad that ray last letter came safe into

your hands, and do return you my sincere thanks for delivering the one in

closed in to my Sinter, begging that you will now repeat the same favour,

as exactly on similar occasion, and she may still be in need of small

supply.320  thank God that am now much recovered of my gravel, and in

hope of getting quite well again.3'-1

      herewith send you an account of my Mechanical Paradox,322 and my

three Letters to parson Kennedy,323 who         now very quiet. He has been

sadly trimmed by the reviewers, &c." (See letter of date April 10th, 1776,

pp. 145--148).

Common Place Book. -- This MS. folio, so frequently alluded

  ".120 The last letter " here alluded to refers to the one in our possession, dated
Sept. 12th, 1775, and inserted at pages 441, 442. It probable that other three
      It
           is

                           it,
                                                it
                                                                                                is
                                                                                                        it
guineas would also be inclosed in this last letter for his sister Elspeth, showing
Ferguson's tender regard and attention to her wants without solicitation.
   32l By referring to letter of date 12th Sept. 1775, pp. 441, 442, will be ob

served that about the time he wrote he was in great distress with gravel. In
      mlauscthlebtetettre, rworfittenansdeve"n   months afterwards, he    wexeplrlesasgeas in,h"im--stehlfis
this                                            in hope of getting quite                                      as having
got                                                                                                           hope was
illusory. In June he was again laid prostrate in bed, to which he was mostly
confined till his death on Kith November.
322 This refers to his pamphlet on the Mechanical Paradox, published in 1764,

and noticed at page 302.
  "323 singular that Ferguson should again present Mr. Cooper with copies

of his Three Letters to parson Kennedy," seeing that he sent him copies by his
son John on Sept. 12th, 1775. Probably Ferguson's memory was beginning to
fail, and had forgotten the circumstance.
.iAMKS FERGUSON.  447

to in these pages, and from which we have given so many curi
ous extracts, was, with other two MS. volumes of Ferguson's
(noticed at pages 224 and 235, 236) discovered in Edinburgh
towards the end of 1865, and with them was bequeathed to, and
deposited in the College Library, Edinburgh, shortly afterwards,
by the late James Lauder Rutherfurd, Esq., agent for the trus
tees of the late John Ferguson, Esq., the youngest and then only

surviving son of Ferguson.

   It would appear that this MS. folio, with the other two quarto

MS. volumes, and also a box containing a small orrery, drawings
and writings which had belonged to Ferguson, were, shortly
after the son's death, in 1833, deposited in the Writing Cham
bers of his solicitor, Mr. Balderstone, in Edinburgh, and it was in
these premises, subsequently occupied by his successors, Messrs.
Scott, Moncrieff, & Dalgetty, W.S., that these were found.

    As formerly noticed (note 194), we were early, in 1864, pre
sented with the box and its contents ; the existence of these MS.

was not then known, otherwise they would probably have been
presented to us by Mr. Rutherfurd along with the box.

    The " Common Place Book" is 14£ by 9£ inches, and 1£-inch
thick, is half bound, and appears to have been originally in
tended for either a Merchant's Day Book, or Journal, as it is
ruled throughout with £ s. d. columns, in red ink, similar to such
books, --has 276 pages, with several interleaved ones of a quarto
size, 184 Miscellaneous Articles, and 108 pen-and-ink drawings,
many of which are very beautiful. These writings and draw
ings are not entered on consecutive pages in the order of their
dates, but appear to have been inserted at random, without any
regard to order or arrangement, and many of them are to be
found in his printed works. Near the top of the first fly-leaf
we find, in Ferguson's autograph,

                             " James Ferguson's
                                                             Common Place Book,''

but without date. It does not, however, appear to have been
commenced before 1756. Ferguson died in 1776, so that it

would be his " Common Place Book " for about 20 years.
    To Sir David Brewster, Principal of the University of Edin

burgh, to whom we are indebted for the loan of the MSS., and
for the liberty of taking extracts therefrom, we take the oppor
448 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

tunity here afforded to acknowledge our sense of his kindness,
with many thanks.

   Mu rdoch Ferguson Shipwrecked. --According to a memor

andum, Murdoch Ferguson was shipwrecked in September, 1776,
narrowly escaping with his life.324

   Ferguson on his Death-Bed. --Of the closing scene, we

learnt from the youngest son (John), and also from Mr. Andrew
Reid, so often quoted, that Ferguson was confined to the house
from the end of June till November, 1776, and that during the

greater part of these five months he was confined to bed, occa
sionally suffering great pain from gravel and other ailments.

Death of Ferguson. -- Died at his residence, 4 Bolt Court,
Fleet-street, London, on Saturday morning, 16th November,
1776, at a quarter before Six o'clock, the great Self-taught As
tronomer and Philosopher, James Ferguson, F.R.S., aged 66
years and 7 months. He died as he lived, " an upright, worthy
man, and a sincere believer in the Christian faith." His death was
                                                                                            John, in 1831,
dinefeoprmlyerdegurestttehdatinhtihsisfaatnhdero'sth"eirnctoeullnetcrite, s.durHinigs  son  long confine
                                                                                       his
ment, was clear and unclouded to the last;" that his " last words

were faltering, and in part inaudible ; but so far as they could be

understood, they were in prayer, resigning his soul into the hands

of his Maker." (For Obituary Notices, see Appendix).325

   Ferguson's Funeral. -- " Ferguson was interrod in the

Churchyard of Old St. Mary-le-Bone, London, on Saturday

tbIo"biwmwafnhnonausraaeHr3dtetseed3htr2ctihree2shk4pisefs5,eh--liShiinsiigsEensoAhodndwhvndwpisneaetfaiepaaotrnrwniatolrethtosehaolhteuniitntsnmweodrttdcowerolaise'yxuriftscre.nsos.siolehtwu"fdenaettiLbrehshogrvs--eyasieiceCencctfNaohraahwthapnslui,nteeaiiln,anhsrlbsthuoetgettbeiodsseaochrulolbe?naron'inwtssaodsn,tdantidgtoshwaLaohPeMSaiwteihpatfdevttreshaalehhrel.ietyitgvmisicons,nohiPtrnopJfgdeteMolagttifitSasfnBeehoreasanudr.doonnes.ilebn'cwlt,nAuectljccoeoyurddWeFes,cerieate.srOntr"aemers,uthldlgt,tkuoorttiupeshilWntest.Ternwihooa,nahdo5tahenleotl9Aliteke,Ssss6rdpae,oBnee,drrEiopoulos,feisfi"tttrrpsintqeyeatielamhd.mteqt,--rsohiafutesibirecysbneniisecneeegntttutrfanfltioudtao,ooorvdlerlrkyl1neaelaFseweo8drtobed3nwhwqfhro.1sihgiuehicu,Fonfsuuoxhnreetgotsrtpfnreeao2mgsrahdlutenruaeihemft.s'lsftasifeesitoesnoovrtrirunoe'lcneMeTsecac,dnntchuelhd,celwretmuweeserose:a"shdhkodtdieiobiihic--.hilpidrueensh,i-si;
          vdeiza.thh, imhseelfm, ehnitsionberdothtehratMtuhredroechw,erehisonalyunftouJranpeetrsoFnesrgupsroense, ntanadt  his
father's                                                                                                                   the
death,--

domestic servant.
                      JAMES FERGUSON.                                                                                               449

morning, 23d November, 1776." 328 The following " Order of
the Funeral " is copied from an old manuscript, long in the
possession of the late Miss Wilson of Keith, a near relative of
Ferguson, who, before her death, presented it to Mr. Robert
Sim (lately deceased).

            " The Order of Mr. Ferguson's Funeral.

                    A Hearse and Six Horses with Black Feathers.

                    Three Mourning Coaches and Four Horses each.

                              Pall Bearers.

                    Messrs. Strachan.        Messrs. Mackenzie.

                      Jeffery's.               Nairne.

                      Allen.                   Wyndlow Hodgson.

                    Chief Mourner, --Murdoch Ferguson.

                                  Mourners.
                    Messrs. J. Wilson.
                                             Messrs. P. Wilson.
                                  T. Cowan.
                                                     J. Ferguson.

                      T. CadalL                T. Mackie." »2"

   Shortly after the funeral, an altar-tomb, as here represented
by the woodeut, was placed over the grave, on the south side of
which lie the remains of his wife and eldest son James.

Ferguson's Tomb, Old St. Mary-le-Bone Churchyard, London.

   In the summer of 183o we visited the tomb and made this
sketch of --the inscription was then much weather-worn, so
                    it,

                                             a
                                                             3

                                                      L
                                                               J.

                                                                                                                                (a
   326 MS. Records    of the parish of Old St. Mary-le-Bone, London.                                                              Strachan and
   327 There appears    to have been 13 at the funeral, -- viz. Messrs.                                                                 relative);
Cldell, Booksellers;   Mr. Nairne, Optician;.!. Wilson, Westminster
P. Wilson (supposed to be brother-in-law); T.  Mackie, Grocer; Mr. Mackenzie,
Grocer; Murdoch Ferguson, eldest son; and         Ferguson, youngest son. We

have no note of Messrs. Jeffeiy, Allen, and Hodgson.
450 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

much so, that it was read with difficulty. A friend who visited

the tomb in 1864 informs us that he found the lettering on the
cover-stone so much wasted as to be scarcely traceable. That
it may be preserved, we here give it from our copy taken on
the occasion of our visit.32s

                                                      Here

                                   is interred the body of

               JAMES FERGUSON,

                                              F. K. 8.

                     Who, blessed with a line natural Genius,

                    by unwearied application (without a Master),
                                        attained the Sciences.

                         Astronomy and Mechanics he taught

                         with singular success and reputation.

                    He was modest, sober, humble, and religious,
                                                       and

                      His works will immortalize his Memory,

                        When this small Monument is no more.

                              He died 16th Nov. 1776, aged 6G.

On the south side of this Tomb lies interred the body of
 Isabella, his wife, who died 3rd Sept. 1773, aged 53.

                  And by her side lies the body of
        James Ferguson, their eldest son, who died

                   20th Nov. 1772, aged 24 years.

»28 In the year 1864, Mr. George Page, of 30 Wardour Street, Soho, London,
                  made for      a very neat model, in
at our request,  the foot.  us  rests on a broad base  beech, of the tomb, on a  scale
of an inch to                                          of wood which is covered  with
                            It

gree*n cloth. The inscription is printed on paper, and pasted upon the cover.
                             JAMES FERGUSON.                                                               451

   Ferguson's Residence, 4 Bolt Court. --The following is a

south view of the house No. 4 Bolt Court, Fleet Street, London,
the residence of Ferguson from 17C5 till his death, November

16th, 1776.

                                                                                                                 «

   This view is from a photograph which was taken at our
request, in 1862, from near the centre of the Court, about
30 yards to the south of the house, which, in the view, is
shaded, to distinguish it from houses adjacent.35*

329 The house, No. 4 Bolt Court, in which Ferguson so long resided, and died,
is the property of Lord                    and is  naoswthteeirna"ntSehdefbfiyeldMeWssarrse. hoHuesner."y  Wil
kinson & Co., Sheffield,     Culthorpe,  by them                                                            Mr.
J. Brashier, their           and used

arrangement, for     agent,  sent us the  thfoalnlokws:in--g  "paBretliocuwlatrhse  regarding the internal
there is a Kitchen  which    we return                                              level of the
                                                                                    -- two rooms  pavement
                    and Cellar-- two rooms on basement Door                                       on second
floor -- two on third floor-- three bed-rooms on fourth floor, and two attics, in all

13 apartments. The two windows on right hand above the door, and large win
dow on same level in gable wall, looking into the Court, is generally supposed

to have been Ferguson's principal parlour.
452 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

  Ferguson's Will. -- The following is copy of Ferguson's

Will, taken from the original in the Wills' Office, Doctors'

Commons, London.

     IIN THE NAME OF GOD Whom I humbly adore, and

into whose merciful hands resign my Soul hoping to be saved
by the attonement of Christ my Redeemer; being at present
weak in Body but perfectly sound in Memory and Judgement,

I make this my last Will and Testament, as follows ; first, --
I desire that my funeral charges and just debts may be duly
paid,--secondly, -- I give and bequeath to my Sister, Elspeth

Ferguson, Twenty pounds sterling, and the like sum to my

Sister, Elizabeth Ferguson, to be paid within a month after my

decease ; or to their heirs, if they themselves or either of them

die before that time ;--Thirdly, --I give and bequeath to my

Sister, Janet Ferguson, now living with me, two hundred and

fifty pounds sterling, with all my household furniture, including
any one of the Clocks that she likes best, and as many of my
Books as she chuses to take ; but no part of the machinery 330

Ion which have read Lectures on Experimental Philosophy

and Astronomy ;-- The rest of my Books, Clocks with my two

Watches I leave to be equally divided according to their value,

between my two Sons, Murdoch and John Ferguson, --absolutely

prohibiting my said sons from selling or giving away or print
ing any of my manuscripts, because they are not sufficiently

Icorrect to bear printing; --fourthly, -- desire my Executors

after named, to lay out Two hundred pounds Sterling of my
money, in the three per cent, annuities or any other way where

they think it will be more safe, which I give and bequeath to

my Daughter, Agnes Ferguson, with the Interest that may
 accrue thereon, in case she shall demand the same within seven

years after my decease ; but if she doth not demand it within
that time, my Will that my Executors do equally divide the

 said two hundred pounds with the Interest thereof, equally

between my said two Sons, Murdoch and John -- Hoping that
                                    is,

                                       a

                                                    It

                                                                   is
                                                                                                     ;

                                                                                                                                          is
830 All Fergusou's sisters, so far as known, are here named, excepting Mar
                                    was then dead.           remarkable that his brother John
gnoatreti--n ptrhoebaWblyill;s--he  he was small    farmer  in 1776; and, as previously noticed,

died at Relashes (Rothiemay) in 1796, aged 8S.
                                     JAMES FERGUSON.                                               453

they will have humanity enough to assist and support her after
wards, if she applies to them and they be assured that she is in

necessitous circumstances ;-- fifthly, -- I desire my Executors to
sell all the machinery on which I had read my Lectures on Ex

perimental Philosophy and Astronomy as soon after my decease

as may be ; and to put all the moneys arising from the sale

thereof to what money of mine remains in their hands, after all

the above deductions are paid ;-- I reckon all this Machinery to

be well worth Two hundred and ninety pounds exclusive of the

Globes and Universal Dialling Machine ; but my Executors are

not hereby restricted from selling them for a less sum,                                            1

desire that they may be first tendered to Doctor Buchan 331 at

Edinburgh for One hundred and ninety pounds, and if he will

give that sum for them, let him have the Machine for showing

that a Mixture of all the Colours makes a White, and the Uni

versal Dialling Machine and Brass Quadrants into the Bargain ;

although I have not used them in my Lectures ;-- Sixthly, --
I request that my Executors will accept of Ten Guineas each,

not as a Reward or compensation for their trouble,-- but as a
small token of my respect and esteem ;--seventhly,-- as my said
Son, Murdoch has had full one thousand one hundred pounds

sterling of my money since his education was finished, and as

Imy Son John has as yet had nothing from me, but what have

paid for bis maintenance and education which is not yet over, --
my Will that after all the above mentioned deductions are
I
             is,made by my Executors, the remaining money arising from the
                     is
                                  ;
sale of my machinery, togetlter with the rest and residue of all

                                            by
                                                                     by
that die possessed of be put out to Interest                              my Executors,

which Interest to be applied                them towards my said Son

John's maintenance and education till he arrives at the age of

Twenty one years and then, my Executors are to pay him One

thousand one hundred pounds of the principal to be entirely at

his own disposal, and that then, whatever money of mine still

remains in their hands they are to divide equally among my         it
said two Sons Murdoch and John Ferguson, Share and Share

   331 Dr.  William Buchan, author of  the  c1e7l1e9b,ra--teddiedwoirnk,   " Domestic Medicine,"
was born    at Ancrum, Roxburghshire,   in
                                                                          London, 25th February,
                                                                 dheelivdeirdingso,le--ctmuroesst
            76.   In 1775 he, seems,   contemplated                                                on Natural
            in   Edinburgh, but        not known                                                   likely not.
1805, aged                           it
Philosophy                                it
                                                is

                                                               if

Ferguson's apparatus in whole, or in greater part, was disposed of by public sale

in March, 1777.
454 EXTENDED MEMOIR OF

Ialike, --my papers Vouchers in the same parcel with this my

last Will and Testament, will show what money die possessed

of; -- Eighthly; I nominate and appoint Mr. Thomas Cadell,
Bookseller in the Strand, -- Mr. Thomas Mackie, Grocer, in

Princes Street, Soho, and Mr. Thomas Cowan, lately a Grocer,

in Oxford Street, --all now living in London, to be the Execu

tors of this my last Will and Testament, which is written, signed
and sealed by my own hand, --on the fifteenth day of August,

in the year of our Lord, One thousand seven hundred and

seventy six  James Ferguson."

                                 25th November 1776.

   Appeared personally George Adams, of the Parish of Saint

Dunstan in the West, London, -- Mathematical Instrument
Maker, -- and James Wilson of the Parish of Saint James,
Westminster, in the County of Middlesex, Gentleman, --and

respectively made oath that they, these Deponents, knew and
were acquainted with James Ferguson, late of the Parish of
Saint Dunstan in the West, London, deceased, for several years
preceding, and to the time of his death, which happened in the
present month of November, as they, these Deponents have been

informed and verily believe, --and also with the deceased's
hand-writing, and way and manner of subscription, --having

had frequent occasion of seeing the deceased write and subscribe

his name, --and they, these Deponents, having carefully viewed

and perused the paper writing hereunto annexed, purporting

to be the last Will and Testament of the said deceased --begin

Ining thus, " In the name of God whom 1 humbly adore, and into

whose merciful hands resign my Soul, hoping to be saved by
the attonement of Christ my Redeemer, being at present weak

in Body but perfectly sound in mind memory and Judgment, I

make this my last Will and Testament, as follows," -- and ending

thus "Eighthly. I nominate and appoint Mr. Thomas Cadell.

Bookseller in the Strand, -- Mr. Thomas Mackie, Grocer in

Princes Street, Soho, and Mr. Thomas Cowan, lately a Grocer
in Oxford Street, all now living in London, to be my Executors,

of this my last Will and Testament, which is written, signed,
and sealed by my own hand on the fifteenth day of August, in

 the year of our Lyrd, One thousand, seven hundred and seventy

six," and thus subscribed " James Ferguson " --do depone and
               JAMES FERGUSON.                                       455

verily, and in their conscience believe, as well whole scries,
Body, and contents of the said Will, as the name " Jainos Fer

guson" appearing thereto, set, and subscribed, to be in the

handwriting and usual manner of subscription of him, the said

James Ferguson, deceased.233

   George Adams, --James Wilson ;--Same day the said George

Adams and James Wilson, were duly sworn to the truth of this
affidavit before me Geo. Harris, --Surrogate :
                                                Present Mark

Holman N. P. PROVED at London 27th Nov. 1776, before

the Worshipful Andrew Coltee Ducarel, Doctor of Laws, Surro

gate, --lawfully constituted by the Oaths of Thomas Cadell, --

Thomas Mackie and Thomas Cowan the Executors named in

the said Will to whom admon was granted, having been first

sworn duly to administer."

                            Stamp'd Office Copy

                                                  Court of Probate.

 l-458 Bellat

fol. T. M.

Will332 As mentioned in note 318, the sums named in the  amount to
£1620; but the rest or residue is not named, although it must have been con
siderable, besides what would be received from sale of apparatus, household

effects, &c.
APPENDIX.

                   3M
                    APPENDIX.

       NEWSPAPER OBITUARY NOTICES OF FERGUSON'S DEATH.

" On Saturday Morning, died at his house in Bolt Court, Fleet Street,

of a lingering illness, the justly celebrated Mr. James Ferguson, Lec
turer in Natural Philosophy and Astronomy, one of the greatest

geniuses in Mechanics that ever appeared                    tiensttifhyi,s--orinanyadodtihtieorn                  country,
as his several publications abundantly                                                                               to the

above, with a very sagacious mind, and the most engaging and primi
tive simplicity of manners, he possessed an uncommon share of good
ncCoahmtruisirnteiganaonfdfwaihthhaut--mhilseitoyp.trhoafteHsistiesdmwahhyiombleseeljdfuespttoolyrbtmes--aeindat
                                                                                                                   was indeed highly be
Israelite iwleed in whom there icas no guile.'                                                                    sincere believer in the
                                                                                                                  of him ' that he was an
                                                                                                                  " -- The New Morning

Post and General Advertiser, London, Monday, November 18th, 1776.
The Caledonian Mercury, of date Edinburgh, November 20th, 1776,

has precisely the same announcement; as also many other newspapers

during this month.

" On Saturday morning, about 6 o'clock, died at his house in Bolt
Court, Fleet Street, Mr. James Ferguson the Astronomer. Mr. Fer
guson was more than 66 years of age; and though generally thought
       in distressed circumstances, has
to be   £5000." --The Gazetteer and                          bequeathed to different                               legatees
above                                                       New Daily Advertiser,                                 London,

Monday, 18th November, 1776.

1776. -- "Died on November 16th, Mr. James Ferguson, Lecturer

in Natural Philosophy and Astronomy, an excellent mechanic, and
no bad miniature painter, at his house in Bolt Court, Fleet Street.

Ho was a man who, by mere force of genius, made considerable pro

gress in mathematical arts and sciences, wrote several useful works,

amnedntbsotahndpromjeacctheidnesa.n" d--eDxoedcsulteeyd'sa  great number of                                       ingenious instru
                                                            Annual Register,                                      vol. 19, p. 194 ;

Gentleman's Magazine, vol. 46, p. 397.

       Posthumous Detractor and Defenders.

   " Mr. Urban,

                              The posthumous fame of Mr. Ferguson has suffered
much from his affectation of poverty and distress, while he was se
460 APPENDIX.

cretly possessed of thousands.     His seeming humility was as much

put on. Many mistakes may be found in his Lectures on Physical
Subjects to which he was in no wise adequate. Some of these were
pointed out to him privately, that the sale of his works might not be
hindered, and the errors amended in a future edition ; but he always
          these private intimations with ill humour,    3a3n3d--reGjeecntetdlemsaunc'sh
received  corrections with disdain, &c. ---W. L."
friendly

Magazine, Dec., 1776.

" Mr. Urban,
                            The strictures of W. L. on Ferguson's Select Lec
tures, so far as they relate to science, gave me pleasure ; because, it is

from the joint efforts of a number of individuals only, that we can

ever hope for any tolerable degree of precision. But really the sar

castic, invidious manner they are introduced in, gave me pain; be
cause the censure seems wanton and unprovoked. What have the

public to do    with  the moral    rectitude of a man,  --whose       only preten
sions were to   read  lectures on  Natural Philosophy                 How are we
                                                        ! or,

to judge of the truth or consistency of the accusation! He affected

the appearance of poverty, yet he died possessed of what some would
call a competency. Did any one give a supernumerary guinea] Verily

they had their reward, in having relieved supposed distress. But are

Ithere not family circumstances that might apologize for such conduct ?

Such may be suggested, and am told actually did exist. He wore

the mask of humility, but rejected well-meant counsel with disdain.
Is it at all strange that a man, who merely by the strength of his own

genius raised himself to deserved estimation in the walks of science,
should be sensible he possessed superior talents 1 Or, is it not pos

sible that amendment may be proposed in such a manner as to give

just cause of offence to the most abject? Lideed I think it may ; and

that W. L.'s Essay is one proof of it ; ' many mistakes are to be found

in Ids Lectures on Physical Science,' and so there are in most, if not

all authors ; this, therefore, is no proof that he in particular ' was in

no wise adequate.'

  I II would not wish to write a panegyric on Mr. Ferguson, yet thus

much thought due to the merit of a man, that, so far as know,
         to have filled his  station in life                          of clearness
seems     that has seldom    been exceeded    --wSitihmpaledxe.g"ree                and

utility

   " Mr. Urban*,

                   IIt was with the greatest concern that read in your

Magazine for January a most malignant abuse of a good man, an in
genious and sound philosopher, Mr. James Ferguson.

333 We have looked into a great many Newspapers and Magazines for Novem
ber, 1776, for obituary notices of Ferguson, -- all pay the highest tribute of
respect to his worth and genius, with the exception of this vituperous writer
under the cover of the initials W. L. Can it be supposed that these initials came
into existence   through the agency of the  pen of the pugnacious     Rector of Bradley
--the vilitier  of Ferguson-- the Reverend  John Kennedy?
                                          APPENDIX.                                    461

   ' His posthumous fame ' (says this writer) ' has suffered much from
his affectation of poverty and distress, while he was secretly possessed
of thousands. His seeming humility was as much put on. Many

mistakes may be found in his Lectures on Physical Subjects, to which
he was in no wise adequate. Some of them were pointed out to him

privately that the sale of his works might not be hindered, but he
always received these private intimations with ill humour, and reject
ed such friendly corrections with disdain.' And this worthy gentle
man, however, it seems, wishes to point them out publicly, after his

death, when he is no longer able to defend himself ; but Ids efforts are
as futile and contemptible as they are ill-timed. His insinuations are

false, and only show how much malice and venom this animadverter

adds to his ignorance.

  I was well acquainted with Mr. Ferguson for many years, and altho'
I knew that he was oftentimes really in great distress, notwithstand

ing his honest labours and industry, owing to an unfortunate connec

tion, yet he always took pains to conceal his misery and was backward
and scrupulous to receive the benevolence of his friends who wished
to contribute to his necessities. And when His Majesty was graciously
pleased to bestow upon him a pension of fifty pounds a-year, he ex

pressed himself as under the deepest obligations of gratitude, and
always spoke of as making him easy and comfortable. And, as to
a
             it,

                     a
the few thousands he left behind him, can very truly affirm, they
came to him only very short time before he died, by means of the
death of relation, from whom he had never before received anything.it
As to his humility (which this writer would give us to understand was
merely affected and hypocritical), all who were acquainted with Mr.II

Ferguson know was on the contrary most unfeigned and so exces
            it                                                         ;

                                                                                   it
sive, as to have been, in some instances, very prejudicial to him, when
he met with minds ungenerous enough to take advantage of to his

detriment.

Justice to the memory of an old departed friend demands this vin
dication of his injured character; and hope, Mr. Urban, you will
with your usual impartiality insert in your magazine, especially after
having given place to such an unprovoked and virulent abuse of his

good name and character.

    Base indeed must that mind be which can find no better employ
ment than to load with reproaches the memory of man deceased,
who was in his manners most simple and irreproachable, and in the
                                                                       a
                                                                               is
pursuit of his studies, one of the most useful, candid, and ingenious

men of the age in which he lived, and to whom the world indebted
for great improvements in the science of Astronomy, and for great and
teiloengsa.n--t elucPildaaitnionhoonfest
A                                         and for  many  most  useful  mechanical      inven
                                          Man."
                        it,

ap*'acPgqTeluhaauii4nsn,6te2Hd,tohenawselelisutthdteMwFaoetnrogwu"rssitooienmnr,se,pnaa"orsttuiicwcneuefsollalrrtt,huaensaw"Dtherou.nffHwoaormatusuillnsytfaootnrec,omncionannenncyhteiiocsytneino.a"onist,"icweTbheuaelltt
does not refer to its source. We are sorry to note that appears to
                                                                       it
462 APPENDIX.

point to Mrs. Ferguson. The following notice from the Mirror has
been frequently alluded to and quoted, and it therefore requires to be

rep"roJadmuceesd  Fheerrge,usaolnth, oFu.gRh.Sw. e--hSaovme eswomheerescarubpoulets   as  to its correctness.
                                                                                     the  year 1770, whilst

Ferguson was delivering a lecture on Astronomy to a London audience,
his wife entered and maliciously overturned several pieces of his ap
Iparatus. Mr. F. observing the catastrophe, only remarked the event

by saving, ' Ladies and Gentlemen, have the misfortune to be mar

ried to this woman.' It would seem that Mr. F. and his wife lived
unhappily together. She is never alluded to in the excellent Memoir
written by himself.334 Mr. Ferguson seems to have been somewhat

penurious in his habits; for it is on record that ho used very frequently
to borrow small sums of money from his friends for the purpose of its
being understood that he was in poverty, and so elude the chance of
his friends borrowing from him.386 He died in 1776, with property
and money to the value of about £6000. Shortly after the death of

Mr. Ferguson a Scotch publican had the philosopher's likeness put
over his door, and the house went by the name of ' The Ferguson's
                                    seen one of Mr.
Head,'    where was long to be      Saturdav, 25th                         Ferguson's large  orreries.
         S."-- Mirror, London,                                             February, 1837,   vol. 2i),
-- W.

No. 822, p. 128.

Dr. Houlston ok Liverpool on Ferguson. -- * * * * " Mr.

Ferguson was universally considered as at the head of Astronomy and

Mechanics in this nation of philosophers, and he might justly be styled

self-taught, or rather heaven-taught; for in his whole life he had not
above half-a-year's instruction at school. He was a man of the
clearest judgment, and of the most unwearied application to study;

benevolent, meek, and innocent in his manners as a child; humble,

courteous, and communicative; instead of pedantry, philosophy seemed

to produce in him only diffidence and urbanity, a love for mankind
and for his Maker. His whole life was an example of resignation and

Christian piety. He might be said to be an enthusiast in his love of
God, if religion, founded on such substantial and enlightened grounds
as his was, could be called enthusiasm. After a long and useful life,

unhappy in his family connections, in a feeble and precarious state of
health, worn out with study, age, and infirmities, he was at length
permitted to attain that heaven on which his thoughts and views had
                            which is the ultimate reward of
long been   fixed, and      -- Annual Register, vol. 19, 1776.                            learning,  virtue,
patience,  and piety."
                                                                                           336

Capel Lofft, Esq., on Ferguson. -- "Mr. Ferguson died on the

his334"  It is needless to  in; f"ormeventhealrtehaoduerghthahte  Ferguson does allude     to his wife in
                                                                   had not, it would      have signifieJ
         excclient Memoir

nothing.
   335 we rather think
See note on Murdoch ;         that   this    moaf y"  rSefiemr plteoxth"e  adnoding"sA    of Murdoch the son.
                            also,   letters                                                Plain Honest Man,"

in the Appendix.
   336 Dr. Houlston, an eminent surgeon and author, one of Ferguson's most in
timate friends, resided m Chapel Street, Liverpool. Died about the year 1784.
                                      APPENDIX.                                                             463

sixteenth of November, 1776, having struggled with a constitution

naturally infirm longer than could have been reasonably expected.
* * * Some manuscript tables, diagrams, and a philosophical
correspondence of this heaven-taught philosopher are in my hands,

I Iwhich were given by him to my Eudosia before our marriage ; nor

can reprove myself for the pride which often feel in reading over
his letters to Miss Emblin, written to her before our marriage." 337

   Sir David Brewster. on Ferguson. -- " Mr. Ferguson may in some

degree be regarded as the first elementary writer on Natural Philo
sophy, and to his labours we must attribute that general diffusion of
scientific knowledge among the practical mechanics of this country,
which has in a great measure banished those antiquated prejudices

and erroneous manners of construction that perpetually misled the
unlettered artist. But it is not merely to the praise of a popular writer
that Mr. Ferguson is entitled ; while he is illustrating the discoveries
of others, and accommodating them to the capacities of his readers,
we are frequently introduced to inventions and improvements of his

own ; many of these are well known to the public ; and while some of

them have been of great service to experimental philosophy, they all
evince a considerable share of mechanical genius. To a still higher
commendation, however, our author may justly lay claim ; it has long
been fashionable with a certain class of philosophers to keep the
Creator totally out of view when describing the noblest of his works.
But Mr. Ferguson has not imbibed those gloomy principles which steel

the heart against its earliest and strongest impressions, and prompt
to suppress those feelings of devotion and gratitude which the struc
ture and harmony of the universe are so fitted to inspire. When bene
volence and design are particularly exhibited in the works or in the
phenomena of nature, ho dwells with delight upon the goodness and
wisdom of their Author ; and never fails to impress upon the reader,

what is apt to escape his notice, that the wonders of creation, and the
various changes which the material world displays, are the result of

tetohxaehtritseudnEedrfriotirniogtnhewoiscf doFomemrfgouratsnodann'sbdo"uhnLadeplceptsiunsreessgsoooodnfnemSsesalencw."th--SicuBhbrjeeawcrtesst.eu"rn's3c3esParseinfagclye

" Ferguson's Personal Appearance." -- The following remarks

on Ferguson's personal                appearance were                            oRbeliidgin--glsyo  sent in a letter of
date June 7th, 1833,                                                                                 often referred to.
                                      by Mr. Andrew
He was well acquainted with Ferguson ; and as previously noted,
d1i7e"7d4P.i"enrs1o8n3a4"l ,Maarpg.peedaFre8ar4ngcueyseoanras.ndhaDdreassveorfy
                                                                                 Mr. Ferguson about    the  year
                                                                                                      face  and
                                                                                  sedate appearance,

337 The author of Eudosia, or a Poem on tivt Universe, so frequently alluded to.
333 The name of this philosopher is universally known. He, in 1805, edited
an edition of Ferguson's Mechanics ; in 1811, an edition of Ferguson's Astronomy;
a"ndFerignus1o8n2'3s  collected  and                                             other works         under the title
                      Essays."        published  Ferguson's                                                           of
464 APPENDIX.

brow a little winkled ; he wore a large full stuff wig, which gave

him a venerable look, and made him to appear older than he really
was. He usually wore a white neckerchief, especially when deliver
ing his lectures. His coat had no neck, was of large dimensions,
reaching down below the knee, and coining full round in front ; was

decorated with large buttons, and of course had the usual huge pockets
and double folded-up sleeves fenced with shirt wrist ruffles. His

waistcoat was also large ; had likewise no neck ; large pockets ; and
reached down to near his thighs. He wore knee breeches, generallv
of black velvet, or plush, and fastened at the knee with silver buckles;
generally wore black stockings, full shoes with buckles. When walk
ing about he wore the cocked hat of that day slightly trimmed with
lace ; and, in these, the latter days of his life, he walked about with
the aid of a staff."

   Likenesses of Ferguson. -- There are at least fuur original aml
large likenesses of Ferguson extant ; from two of which miniatures

have been taken :---

The Beatson Likeness, No. 1. -- The earliest likeness of Ferguson

De1x9ut,faftnaotnw,dnis,onnboywth<Cerianbigatehclkelacpihsoisest,ehseBsiaopnnaffisnohtfeirreM'sr:--sn. aImTtheiosmaonsndoncadnaovtfea,sNev2ti3hz.e,irnc"CheJlousnhbyny,

Beatson, 1 756." Mrs. Thomson has very kindly sent us a photograph
                                                               seeinnc--hesa. lmoTsthirsusitsic.a
flirkoemnetshse--othrieginpalal,ineinstanof oavnayl  we   by                                       very plain
                                                         have                                        The face,

with its fine high and massive brow, looks to the left ; the part of the
coat and vest shown represent garments of a very common description.
This bears not the slightest resemblance to any of the other likenesses.

As it is dated in 1756, it is                        likely  "thAasttriotnwomasy  painted shortly after
Ferguson published his great                         work,
                                                                                   Explained upon Sir

Isaac Nmvton's Principles," which was first issued about midsummer

1 756. The publication of this work greatly increased Ferguson's fame

and popularity, and might                have induced Beatson,                    and perhaps other
painters, to take portraits              of " the rising man."                    In 1756 Ferguson

was about 46 years old. (See also date 1756.)

The Uasborne Likeness, No. 2. -- Is a likeness of Ferguson done
in chalk, within an oval of 22 inches by 17. This likeness was
by him given to a lady of title at Windsor, who, in her turn,
              to Mr. Emblin              of"         Windsor, the father                   of Miss Emblin,
presented it    of Ferguson's                        Young Gentlemen                       and Ladies' As
the Eudosia
tronomy," and is now in the possession of Mrs. C asborne of ,New

H" oEuusdeo,siaP.a"kenhAasmt,hisBuornye  St. Edmunds, the daughter of Ferguson's
bable that he esteemed                                       tloikeFneersgsu,s--ona, ndit
                                          belonged                                         is extremely pro
                                         it a good                                         worthy of being

presented to a titled friend. Mrs. Casborne remarks that it is so

faded that a photograph cannot be taken from it. There is neither

name, initials, nor date attached to this likeness.
                                         APPENDIX.                                             4(i5

   The Nouthcote Likeness, No. 3. -- is a large engraved likeness of
Ferguson, from Northcote, engraved in March 1776, about 8 months
before his death, as mentioned in note 319, p. 445. This is a three-quar-
ter face likeness ; is too youthful, both in the face and in the dress,
for one of 66 years. It is singular that the publishers of the
" Library of Entertaining Knowledge" should have selected it for one
of their embellishments, when Ferguson's own publisher rejected it.
For particulars of this likeness, see p. 445.

The Townhend Likeness, No. 4. -- This is esteemed the best of all

the likenesses of Ferguson ; the appeurance in every way is quite in
keeping with his age at the time it was done. From this one

his publisher, Mr.          Gadell, had  "a SereledcutceMd ecehnagnriacvailng          for the frontis
piece of the second          edition of                                              Exercises," pub

lished on January 1st, 1778, the only difference being, that instead of

looking to the right as in the original, the face looks to the left. It
is a front likeness (very nearly) ; the head is covered with a large and
full bag-wig, the face careworn and venerable ; part of the body is
visible, enveloped in the huge dress-coat and vest of last century.
                                                          Underneath is in
The right hand rests on a celestial globe.

scribed,

John Townsend, pinxt.                                 Published Dec. 7th 1770.

                                  James Ferguson, E.R.S.

Printed for Robert Stewart, Engraver and Modeller of Portraits in
Wax. No. 15 Milhnan Street, Bedford-row, Holborn.

   This   ltikheeneesnsgraisvinvge,r--y  scarce ; we  have a copy framed and glazed.
Size of                                  the oblong   part of the ground, 14| by 10

inches; the oval upon the ground, and within which the likeness is

engraved, 13} by 10 inches. Partington has a frontispiece from this
likeness in his edition of Ferguson's ' Lectures on Select Subjects,'
published in 1 825.
   We may notice that a likeness, apparently from either the Towns-

end or Gadell one, was published by "W. Lent, London, Dec. 21st,
1785." We have another, within an oval, quite a caricature, be

neath which is the surface of a table on which arc representations of

an armillary      sphere,   a  "mLeercidtuiarnesinosntruAmsetnrot,nodmiagyr"amandof   a Solar  Eclipse,
and a book        entitled                                                           over the  top are

"James Ferguson, F.E.S." This engraving is from some magazine.

It has no indication to show what book it had embellished, neither

has it a date.

   Family         of Ferguson's Parents. -- As far    as can now be ascertained,
the family         consisted of six children, -- two  sons and four daughters.
John appears to have been the eldest son, and Margaret the eldest
daughter. We shall write down the sous' names first, and then give the
hnaismeWs iollf,
                  the daughters,  following each other, as Ferguson                    has     them in
                   which is most  likely in the order of time of their               ages.      Before

tabling the children's names, it may be mentioned that it is not known

                                         3N
4fil> APPENDIX.

when Ferguson's parents were born, consequently their ages at their
marriage and deaths are a blank. It is, however, very probable that

they were both born sometime about the years 1666 or 1667. They
were both alive in 1736, as Ferguson in his own Memoir tells us that

he about this period, when in Edinburgh,      had                      saved a  little money :
out of which he was enabled to spare, he      says,                    " what   was sufficient

to help to supply my father and mother in their old age" At this
period his parents would be about 70 years old ; and it appears they

were both dead before 1742. They died respected by all who knew

them. It is not known where the parents were buried; probably at

Rothiemay.         father's name was John Ferguson, his mother's name
                   Lobban -- and, as far as is now known, had the follow
    Ferguson's
was Elspeth
ing children :--

    John Ferguson, the eldest son, born 12th March, 1708. 339
    James, (the subject of this memoir,) born 25th April, 1710. 340

    Margaret.341 "|
    Elspeth, 342 1 Not known when horn nor where interred ; probably
    JElizabeth,343 f
                             at Rothiemav.
    Janet. 344

    The     following is extracted from the    fly  --leatfheofenatripeosckaeret   Bible
which      belonged to Mr. Ferguson about     1758                                in his

autograph. This Bible, so often referred to, is now in the possession
of Doctor George at Keith. We may here note, that Ferguson gave
this Bible to his son James about the year 1758; that James gave it
to his sister ; that she presented it to her aunt Janet, after whose death
in          it came                           of the late              Miss Wilson of Keith
--   1773  gave it     into   the possession  physician,               Dr George of Keith.
    who               in a   present to her

(See note 121, p. 72).

33" A daughter of John Ferguson, named Isabella, was married to Alexander
Humphrey, in Pitlurg,        a few miles south of Keith.               John                      or
croft, in his latter days,                                             north  Ferguson's farm,  He
                             was at Kelashcs, about 1j mile                   of Kothiemay.
was long an elder of the parish of Rothiemay. After a life of toil, he died at
Kelashes, 1796, aged 88, and was buried in Rothiemay churchyard.
340 James died in Bolt Court, Fleet Street, London, 16 Nov., 1776, aged 66

years.   Margaret  Ferguson: -- The  Rev.  Mr. James Maekic,           minister of Alves, near
    341

Elgin, informs us, that Margaret Ferguson was his great-grandmother, and that
                      daughter of the   fahmisilyW. illW, hneanmesshe   died is not known ; pro
she was the   eldest   as Ferguson, in                                 his other sisters Elspeth.
bably before   1776,

Elizabeth, and .lanet, hut no notice is there taken of Margaret. Margaret died

at Kothiemay, and was buried there.
34'- Nothing is known of Elspeth Ferguson. It will be remembered that
"Ferguson, in his letter to the Rev. Mr. L'ooper of Glass, sent a present to her of

two guineas, and also a guinea to her daughter Jensy."
343 Of Elizabeth Ferguson nothing is known.
344 Dr. Cruiekshanks, University of Aberdeen, informs us that Janet Ferguson
was married to James Brown, a small crofter at Barnhills, near Kothiemay, that
he knew both Janet and her husband, and that she died suddenly in 1793, leav
ing three daughters, named Margaret, Isabella, and Janet. This sister appears to
have been a favourite of Ferguson's. He left her more money than any of his other
                                                APPENDIX.                                                   467

   What follows, refers to the family of Ferguson's father-in-law,
Geo"rgGeeorWgeilsoWnilsoofnC, aCnatlnetyle, yn, emararKreieidth.to345Elspeth Grant, daughter of
Amrcahr"r1ia-geGrtahnetreowf eErdei--n Valley, the 28th of August 1712 ;»«* of which

Alexander,    born Sunday y" 5th of June 1714.
              ,, Monday 27th July
Margaret,                                                             1717.  Died 3d Sept. 1773. m
Isobel,                                                                      Died 12th July 1745.
William,      ,, Monday 21st Decemr. 1720.                                   Died 6 Oct, 1763.
              ,, Tuesday 23d January 1722.                                   Died 8th March 1764.
Peter,        ,, Monday 15th February 1725.                                  Died 20 March 1739.
              ,, Monday 17th June                                     1728.
George,       ,, Friday 2d April
James,                                                                1731.
John,
Robert,       ,, Wednesday 26th June 1734.
              ,, Friday 6th August
                                                                      1736.

\George, the father, died 22d March, 1742, at past 9 p.m., aged 63
years 6 months. Elspeth Grant, the mother, died 29th January,

1771."                               of
                                     of
autO"ongTrhatehpehp:fr--leyselenatf      the Bible, are the following entries in              Ferguson's
                                         James Ferguson to his sister, Agnes                   Ferguson,

FFerir"dgauTysho,isnA'sBpirhbilalen7dit)sh: ,--the17p5r8es;"entanodf  underneath this  is written, (also in
                                                                      Agnes Ferguson,  to her uncle James

Wilson, 19th April, 1760."
On the back of the title page of the New Testament of the Bible,
are the following entries, (also in Ferguson's autograph) :--

   " Ferguson's Family. -- James Ferguson and Isabella Wilson were
married on Thursday, May the 31st, 1739, and had the following
children:"-- 84s

sisters, lwisides household property. She resided with Ferguson for the last three
years of his life, and was with him when he died on 16 Nov., 1776, after which
she appears to have returned to Rothiemay, Banffshire.
   345 As mentioned in a former note, the Wilson family were interred in the
churchyard of Granok. On the monumental stone of the family there, we find --
"Sacrum Memoria, George Wilson, nuper in Cantly, qui mortem obit 22d die
                                                          Hoc amoris et (loloris monumentum Uxor
Mortis, a.d.  m1o7e4r2e,nsietpaotsisnistu. s"e  64*o.  this extract, we are indebted to the kindness
superstes et                                      For

of the liev. James Allan, present minister of Grange.
348 The Archibald Grant here mentioned was an ancestor of the present Grunts
of Arndilly, about 10 miles from Keith.
347 As recorded in a former note, "Isobel," the second daughter and third
child of this marriage, became in 1739 the wife of Ferguson.
   34s As noted elsewhere, James Ferguson the father, was born at the Core of
Mayen, near Kothiemay in Banffshire, on 25th April 1710; died in No. 4
Bolt Court, Fleet  Street, London, on                                 16th Nov. 1776, and
St. Mary-le-Bone   churchyard, London                                 :-- His wife, Isabella  was interred   in Old
                                                                                              Wilson, was   born at
Grange, near Keitb, Banffshire, on 21st Dec. 1720; died in 4 Bolt Court,
Fleet Street, London, on 3d Sept. 1773, aged 53, and was interred also in the

churchyard of Old St. Slary-le-Bone, London; beside their oldest sou James.
4<J8 APPENDIX.

         Agnes,                      born   Thursday 29th Augt.,                  1745. 3«
         James,                             Tuesday 1 1th October,
                                        ,,  Friday 3d Nov.,                       1748. 3fto
         Murdoch,                       ,,
         John,                          ,,  Tuesday 27 Feb? .                     1752. N.S. 351
                                                                                  1759. N.S. 352

349 Aonks Ferguson: -- As recorded in the foregoing list of births, Agnes
Ferguson was born in London, on Aug. 29th, 1745.                    S"heabwoaust  remarkable for her
beauty and intelligence; "she suddenly disappeared
                                                                                   the end of July
or early in August 1763, and was never more seen by her parents. Our late
researches regarding her show that she was decoyed by a young nobleman and
taken to Italy. He abandoned her, and she, being probably ashamed to re
turn to her parents whom she had disgraced, to maintain herself, wrote ar
ticles for the Magazines. She afterwards became an actress, for a brief period.
She ultimately led an irregular life, and died in poverty in a miserable garret,
in Old Round Court, Strand, (now removed) in January 1792, aged 47 years.
(See pp. 72, 279--285.)
   3!i0 James Ferguson, the eldest son, as shown in the foregoing list, was

born in I/mdon on 11th October 1748. Little is known of him; it is highly pro
bable he inherited a share of his lather's mechanical genius, as he, in 1763, was ap
prenticed to Mr. E. Nairne, Optician and Philosophical Instrument Maker, Corn-
hill, London. He died of consumption (4 Bolt Court, Fleet Street), on 20th
November 1772, aged 24, and was buried in the churchyard of Old Mary-le-

Bone,    London.  F(Seeregupps.on12--7,(t2h7e8,        396. )  son) -- according  to the                foregoing list,
    s5i  Murdoch                                     second

was  born        in London    on 3d November 1752, new style.       Nothing is                          now known of
his  early       years; --he  studied surgery and medicine lor      one session                         only at Edin

burgh University in 1767; where he completed his studies is now not known.

In July 1775, be obtained from the Court of Examiners of the late corporation
of surgeons      1o7f75L,onhdeonm, arhriisedCeartiMficisasteVoinfcQenutaliofifcaGtiroenenwofichS,ur--geaotntemtopateRdetgoimseetnttl.e
In August
in Bury -St. Edmunds as a Surgeon, but did not succeed. He entered the Ser
vice of the Royal Navy as Surgeon, in H. M. S. Thunderer, on 30th May 1778.
Discharged 30th January 1779, being superseded.                     He next entered H. M. S.
                 --25stuhpeNrsoevdeemd b;eran1d78l0a.stlyD, isocnha1r9gtehdJa1n6utahryJu1ly7821,78h1e,
Emerald, on                                                                                             to Sixth Quar
ter at Hasels                                                                                           entered H.M.8
Africa as Surgeon. Discharged and superseded on 2d July 1783, after which
d"atLei,stthoef  War Office    authorities inform us, his       name is  not in their lists. In a
                 Officers in  His Majesty's Fleet, with        the date  of their Commissions --

British Museum, p. 2486," we,                        aR--nhodowKwe,henisvtS'espSri,teLanoflitinnoicddrliodtynsM, uiDsrfidordroeaccthe1tod7r8yF92e--1.r"sg--twuseMIonanfirn"cd1ihn7"91t2M7h,8eu1r.d1L--7ois9ct3Ihsn,
as surgeon in 1796, 1797, 1798,
looking into that rare publication
Ferguson, Surgeon, Paternoster
                   1797, 1798 and 1799, Murdoch resided in                        Burr Street, St.
1794, 1795, 1796,                                                                 of St. Catherine
Catherines beyond  Tower Hill." -- In the Books of the Parish
Tower Hill, it is recorded that Murdoch Ferguson was summoned for poor-rates
in arrear for the house in Burr                      iSt truepe. t--, iMnutrhdeoclahttedrieydearab(o17u9t9)t,hewyheeanr  he declared
                                                                                                                          1803, aged
his  --inaInbil1it8y36,towpeaya, ccainddengtaavlley  met a gentleman in London who knew Murdoch
51.
-- he informed us that he and his wife were rather given to intemperate habit-s,
and that he sometimes delivered lectures in a school-room in the East end of
London. It would seem that Murdoch feigned, poverty when he had plenty and
to spare -- and that several of his own friends, and friends of bis father, on the
esbI"nuexMfpaopmruveoroidsnl.iohatciitosvihonindiieF.taehotrahpfg.thu;ih--ss4oe1nap1wnapaidroesafrassit,nNtthiihscettehrwipoarealistsrse'eonxdnpeiLsedictnieonscervaiperrcaryeuhrtedmAsmtwhtnaaaaesnitcncdhtbeaeousitnr,weieesasdd,su,.pcpwoaoemnArdtpffetianedardrathtliihamvthiesstelyfodbefruwoarslteliohoeam,wdlteihonayntgti.mt--a--hene
                                                     found to have died rich. -- This would lower any
expence of       --hisafnrdienidns,    and since     to this volume, we find "Murdoch Ferguson a
character"                           the Index
Miser. "-- It is not known where Murdoch was interred -- neither is it known when
                                   APPENDIX.                                                  * 469

   Sale   of Ferguson's Effects.                    -- Nichols, in his      " Literary Anec
                                                    valuable Library        of Mathematical
dotes,"   states that " Ferguson's

or where his wife died; nor if she had any family. (See pp. 177, 353, 410, 441,
4483,52aJnodh4n73F.)erguson -- as recorded in the foregoing list--was horn in London
on 27th February 1759, new style. Nothing is kiuown of his boyhood. He
attended the medical classes, &c., of Marischal College, Aberdeen, during the

Sessions of 1773-4, 1775-6, 1776-7. It is not known what course John pursued
after completing his College studies. It is certain that he never followed out the
medical profession. His father, at his death, left him a large sum of money,
which, along with other sums bequeathed to him by his maternal uncle, Lieu
eTtenhnaebarlenedtisJahamimbelasntokWiniolsdfou2nl6g, eyeaaifnrtsetrihnhaittshef'ainltihfdeeorloe'sfndJtoeheaanths;e,--'piunntotwhhihimnicghinwhheeaastsyeovcemirrucicushmknsdtoeawlnignchetosef,dha. in--md
from the time he left college in 1777 until the year 1803. In 1803 we find him

residing in Keith, Banffshire, and conveying by a title-deed certain houses and
                             west  side of the New  S"tr(ebeetining  the  Kirkton of Keith,
gterronuanldsc,ouosnin,the"  Miss  Margaret Wilson                   the  houses and grounds  to his                    ma
                                                                                              which                      her
relation had left by will to him). How long John continued to reside in Keith is
not known. According to several of our memoranda, John, early in the present
century removed from Keith and took up his residence in Edinburgh. In his
latter years he resided with the Misses Moir, 10 Windmill Street, Edinburgh,
and there he died on Sunday, 13th October 1833, aged 74 years and 8 months.
For a considerable length of time before his death, John was very frail and con
fined to his room and bed. On Saturday, October 12th, his death appearing
evidently at hand, he              desired his    Will to be   drawn                          which was
                                   a copy of it:  --          Street,       up and attested,  resolved to
don"e,I,  the following is          residing in   Windmill                  Edinburgh, being
          John Ferguson,
settle my affairs as to prevent all disputes after my death, in regard to the suc
cession to my moveable means and estate, do hereby nominate and appoint
Christian Moir, Charlotte Moir and Sarah Moir, all residing in Windmill street

aforesaid, to be my Executors and Universal Legataiies, hereby leaving and be
queathing to them, the whole goods, gear, debts, sums of money, household fur
niture and other moveables whatsoever, that may pertain or be resting owing to
me, at the time of my decease, together with all bonds, bills, promissory notes,
and other vouchers and instructions, of the said debts, and all that has followed

or may be competent to follow thereon. But always with and under the burden
of the payment of all my just and lawful                              sick  --bewditahndfuflul npeorawlecrhtaorgtehse,
also of the Legacy heroin after appointed           debts,           paid:                                              and
                                                    to be                                                               said

Christian, Charlotte and Sarah Moir, to intromit with the whole of my foresaid
moveable Estate, to give up Inventories thereof, to confirm the same, and gen
erally to do everything in the premises competent to Executors. And ordain
my said Executors to pay and deliver the sum of Three hundred pounds sterling
to Miss    Margaret Wilson my Cousin, residing in                    mKeyitdhe,ceaisne.th--e   County of Banff,
which     Legacy shall be payable six months alter                                            And I consent to

the Registration hereof m the Books of Council and Session, or others competent,
therein to remain for preservation, and to that effect constitute
my Procurators. In witness hereof, 1 have subscribed these presents written by

Alexander Brand, Clerk to Messrs. Scott and Balderstone, Writers to the Signet,
also, the marginal addition hereto, likewise written by the said Alexander Brand
at Edinburgh the twelfth day of October, Eighteen hundred and thirty-three,
before these witnesses, William Brand, also Clerk to the said Messrs. Scott and

Balderstone, and the said Alexander Brand, writer hereof."

" By desire of the said John Ferguson, who declares he cannot write,

   by reason of bodily infirmity, and he having touched my pen, and
  authorized me, I William Scott Notary Public do subscribe for him the
   above written Testament with the Marginal addition thereto, the
                                    APPENDIX.

Books, Manuscripts, and Instruments, was sold by auction by Leigh
and Sotheby, Xov. 15-23, 1802;" and as this has frequently been

        same having been previously read over to him, by me in presence   of

        V»the said Witnesses        Scott, N. P. W"i Brand, witness.
                          Signed <
                            ( Alexr Brand, witness."

John Ferguson was interred in Old Grayfriars burying-ground, Edinburgh.
cT7oh5re"nyeeJforoahlrolsonf:w--SiFtnaeRgrrekgc'uiossrsdoeeGnxd,rt,orauE\cns5tdqeth.udi"rOferc,otmTohbdeeiterrhdee18aiG:st!3rna.Wo--yfirnPsiatldaoremns.eeipllotaofrSiIstnmrhetaeerrtre,kmcoe\trnhWdte. icllaoOssctetortbeoestrthien1g8n3-op3rl,tahc-aeegaeosdtf
John.

  James J. liutherfurd, Ksq., of 10 Windmill Street, Edinburgh --(the house in
which John Ferguson lived and died) was well acquainted with John. In a letter
received, of date 1861, he says, "John Ferguson was of sedate temperment, courte
ous in his manners, and steady in his friendship; as is shown by his domestica
tion with the old Ladies, the Misses Moir, with whom he resided from about the
beginning of the century to his death in 1833. He paid them a very liberal
         and                       carriage for  their express use:  --ofbuhtisbyperasondaellayproin-
board,  they  ultimately  kept a     of several  thousand pounds
perty         received a  bequest
making his 117//, his heritable property, which was said to be considerable --
went to a second or third cousin in Aberdeenshire. Whatever property the As
tronomer his father may have left John, was chiefly derived through his mother
and relations of hers. -- With a considerable knowledge of History, and a slight
tinge of Latinity, and also an appreciation      of several   of the   most elegant of  the
French writers, John probably never even         read his    father's   popular Work    ' the

Young Gentlemen and Ladies' Astronomy,' for he had no taste for Mathematical
Science -- and was indifferent to all matters of Arithmetical computation. --
There never was seen in his house a single work of his father's." One of our

notes mentions, that "John Ferguson was a very amiable gentleman, and highly
respectable, but eccentric and of no great calibre of mind." A friend who knew
John Ferguson intimately -- mentions that he, (John) had often told him,
that his father used to attempt to teach him the Problems in Euclid by models
cut by his own hand in wood and in card; -- but in vain !-- I think," (our friend
adds) "that    I  see John                       sad pinch of snuff as a                his
confession."      Another   just now taking a                             wind-up to    de
              --            friend informs us,   that "John Ferguson      had a gieat

light in playing on the flute-- and that during his latter days it was his sole

amusement."
   In the autumn of the year 1831, when in Edinburgh, on bearing that a son of
the great self-taught astronomer was living at 10 Windmill Street, we lost no time

in going to see him. We took leave to introduce ourself, and was cordially re
ceived; he told us he had just been playing a favourite air on his Bute. Besides
having the pleasure of seeing the only surviving sou of so celebrated a man as
Ferguson, we were then desirous of obtaining information, to put a few questions
to him regarding his father and family, as also regarding several pieces of appa
ratus, &c., which had belonged to his father, liegarding his lost sister, he ap
peared to know nothing. As to when and where his paternal grandfather and
grandmother died, their ages and where buried, he could give us no certain in
formation; he however thought that they would be interred in the churchyard of
Kothiemay. He produced several articles which had belonged to his late father,
such as a small orrery, an astronomical dial on a large thick oblong card, as

tronomical and mechanical drawings, writings, &c. He informed us that he had
sent several articles as presents to his cousin, Miss Wilson of Keith (now dead),
viz., a telescope which his father had made during bis younger years, also scales
and compasses, astronomical quadrants, on cards, Ac. Several articles of his fa
ther's which we had seen, were mentioned, of which he had a clear remembrance.

During our short stay in Edinburgh at the time mentioned, we had two inter
views with him. when he communicated many little incidents, which might have
been otherwise lost, and which are now interwoven with other details in the pre
                                      APPENDIX.                                                 471

noticed by writers when referring to Ferguson, we shall here show

that Ferguson's effects wore sold by auction shortly after his death,
in 1777, and not in 1802, a date 26 years after his death.
                                      Nichols'
   When we first read                 research  note, we were of                    opinion  that it was
wrong, and subsequent                           continued it --

     1st.  John T. Graves, Esq.,                Cheltenham,            --soimt eis  years ago,  kindly-
sent to    ns the catalogue of this             sale of 1802                        entitled

" A Catalogue of the valuable Library of Mathematical Books, Manu

  scripts, and Instruments of the late James Fergusson, Esq., F.R.S.,
  Astronomical Examiner, which will be sold by auction by Leigh
  and Sotheby, at their House, York Street, Covent Garden, on
  Monday November 15th, 18()2, and seven following days at 12
  o'clock."

    The  name Ferguson                in the above   is  printed       Fer"guAsssonA--straonsopmelilcinagl
never    adopted by the                subject of   our   memoir.

Examiner," Ferguson never used such a designation ; but there was
a James Fergusson, teacher of Navigation and the Sciences in Her
mitage Row, Tower Hill, who spelt his name Fergusson, and adopted
the title of "Astronomical Examiner." Date 15th Nov., 1802, is a

date 26 years after Ferguson's death.
   2d. In
            looking    over           ttoheposcsaetsaslo--guaes   we    find  many books which
Ferguson   was not   likely                                      also  many   that were published

after his death, and therefore could not belong to Ferguson.
3d. We have a pamphlet entitled

" Observations on the present state of the Art of Navigation, by
  James Fergusson: London, 1787."

   This is a date 11 years after Ferguson's death, and is the pro
duction of James Fergusson of Hermitage Row, just noticed. From

all which it is evident that the sale of 1802 was the sale of the effects of

James Fergusson, mistaken by Nichols for the Ferguson of our Me

moir.
delAagya--int--he
                   Ferguson in his will orders his               effects to be sold without
Beckman's
                   e"xHecisuttoorrys  would never wait 26        years to do so; we find in
                                       of Inventions," that       the sale of the effects of

Ferguson took place shortly after his death, in 1777. See p. 398 of

the Memoir. Therefore, Ferguson's effects were sold by public auc
tion in 1777, and that of James Fergusson in 1802.

   It is somewhat singular that two persons nearly of the same
name, and of nearly the same profession, should be living in London
at the same time ; we have in our researches frequently come into
contact with this duplicate, and occasionally have had considerable
trouble in unraveling references which may have pointed to either

party.

sent extended Memoir. (For notes on John Ferguson, see pp. 237, 403, 404,

448.)
   The articles which he sent to the late Miss Wilson of Keith are now in the

Banff museum.
472 APPENDIX.

Ferguson's Limnings. -- The oldest Limning by Ferguson ex
tant, is a miniature likeness of his early friend and patron, William
Baird, Esq. of Auehmedden, now in the possession of F. G. Fraser,
Esq., Findrack, Aberdeenshire, (his great-grandson). As formerly
mentioned, this likeness is still in excellent preservation. Mr. Eraser,
"J.in his note, mentions that the Indian ink portrait of Mr. W. Baird
is 6 inches long, by 4k inches broad, and that                  it  "  F. pinxt,"   is in
the lower right hand corner, in front, and under                       William     Baird
of Auciimedden, Summer of 1733." The portrait is placed in a
wooden frame with a gilt border round it. (Seo date 1733 and the
photograph of this portrait).
The next oldest set of Liinnings by Ferguson extant, we take
to be those now in the possession of Cosmo limes, Esq., Professor of
Universal History in the University of Edinburgh. The set con
sists of nine portraits            of these,  of former                            Edin
burgh University.         ; seven   them are   dated --        Professors of         that
                                                             but it is certain
                         None of

they were done by Ferguson between the years 1736-1743. Mr.
Innes, in his note regarding these portraits, intimates, that they are
those of

John Stewart, Professor of Natural History, University of Edinburgh.
Mathkw Stewart, ,, of Mathematics,
Robert Hunter,               of                          ,,
John Stevenson,              of  G" rPeheiklo,sophic^,"
Okoroe Stewart,          ,,                              ,,
William Wallace,         ,,  of Humanity (Latin),        ,,
James Balfour,               of History,
                         ,,  of Moral Philosophy,           ,,         mottoes -- " Idem
                                                            ,,
                         ,,                                 ,,
                         ,,                              with
James Boswell and Temple, reading Cicero;                       the
velle atque idem nolle ea demum fermia amk:itice est;" and, "Unius

amor erat pariterque musarum amice.''   of    the        Court  of Session -- (an  un
   R. Dundas of Aroiston, President

finished head).

   These portraits are arranged in one frame, and may be seen at Mr.
Inncs's house, Inverleith Iinw, Edinburgh.

   The next Limning by Ferguson known, is a miniature portrait
of Simon Lord Lovat, done in the year 1740, now in the possession
of A. T. F. Fraser, Esq. of Abertarf, near Inverness.

   This unfortunate nobleman was out in 1745, and in consequence, his
estates were confiscated. He suffered on Tower Hill, London, early in 1746.

Mr. Watson, Preston Place, Edinburgh, informs us that he has
several miniature portraits in Indian ink by Ferguson. Drawn, pro

bably, between the years 1736 and 1743.

The miniature portrait of Mrs. Ferguson appears to have been
done by Ferguson, in London, somewhere about the year 1750,
when she was in the 30th year of her age. This portrait is noticed
under date 1743, along with a miniature photograph from the origi

nal. It now belongs to Mr. Gordon, Leith. (See date 1743,
note 73, pp. 46, 47).
    The miniature portrait   of George  Wilson           of     Grange,  near Keith,

father-in-law of Ferguson, is in the possession of the Editor, (gifted
                               APPENDIX.                                                            473

by theBev. Dr. Bowie, Kinghorn, in May 1865). This is a very fine
portrait, Indian ink on vellum, pleasant countenance, broad fore
head, with large powdered wig, and in his right hand an open Bible ;
mounted in a black ovul frame. George Wilson died in 1742; this

portrait must, therefore, have been taken before 1742, between the

years 1733-1742.
         miniature portrait of Murdoch                    Ffrguson,   second son of                 Fer
    The  is in the possession of the Rev.                  Dr. Bowie   of Kinghorn.
guson,                                                                                                It
represents Murdoch, when a child about three years old. This is
an exquisite miniature ; nothing can exceed in beauty the face of this
child. As Murdoch was born at the end of the year 1752, this por

trait would be taken sometime in the year 1756. It is mounted in a

black oval frame.                                                     of " A
                                                                      -- (See
Dr. Bowie has also two line pen-and-ink drawings                               Npe.w2C86ra)n--e

awsithalfsoourofdif"feTrheent  powers, Invt. by James Ferguson;"      James Ferguson."
                               Quadruple Pump Mill, made by

These drawings are about 12 inches by 8, in black frames and glazed.
   The miniature portrait of the Rev. Anthony Dow of Fettercairn,

in the Mearns, and of his daughter Jane Dow, are two beautiful por
traits, and are now in the possession of the Rev. Dr. Robert Trail, Free

church minister at Boyndie, Presbytery of Fordyce, Banffshire ; (the
great-grandson of the Rev. A. Dow, and grandson of his daughter
Jane); the daughter, Jane, died in 1805, aged 78, showing that she
was born in 1727; the portrait
have been done when the lady                     has  a   youthful    a--ppseaayranacbeo, ut  and   must
                                                was        her teens                           the   year
                                                      in

1741, when she was in her 15th year.

Ferguson's Orreries: -- After Ferguson's death in 1776, the Lon

don Philosophical Instrument Makers made many very superb orreries,
all in                                                                 in plates VI. and
        brass,  o"nStehleect   plan as laid     down by Ferguson
VII.    of his                   Mechanical      Exercises." Such      orreries in brass-

work are now generally thought to have been made by Ferguson ;

but they were not so; they are "according to Ferguson's method,"

but   not  wmitahd. e--bTyhheimf.olloTwhienrge  are now few Orreries made by him to
bo   met                                        is a list of those we have seen and

heard of.

   1st. The small Orrery made in Edinburgh, early in the year 1743,
and which he, shortly after his arrival in London, sold to Sir Dudley
Eider. The Earl of Harrowby informs us, that this Orrery is still
in existence at his spat, Sandon Hall, near Stone in Staffordshire,

but that it was much damaged by the fire which destroyed Sandon
Hall in 1846.
2d. At the public sale of the Mathematical and Philosophical In
struments of Thomas Hawys, Esq., late of Charterhouse Square, Lon
don, there was sold on Tuesday, October 13th, 1807, by Messrs. King
                                                      38 King Street,
and Lochee, at their great Rooms,                                      FCeorvgeunston.G--ard(eSene,
Lot 68, A large Orrery, with glass                    shade, made by

pp. 320--322, and note 257, p. 341.)
3d. Mr. Bartlett, watchmaker, Maidstone, had in his possession,
                                                3o
474 APPENDIX.

long before 1841, a large wooden orrery made by Ferguson -- the
same sort of orrery as                                                                                                of
Ferguson's Astronomy    is  commonly represented                                          in  the frontispiece
                            the horizon was also                                          of  wood, divided           by
                        --

hand; and the names of the signs, months of the year, &c, were
done in a very neat manner by Ferguson's pen. On a visit to
Maidstone, in 1841, we were shown this orrery by Mr. Bartlett.
                                                                           bought it in
                        that                                      he had   from a dealer  iOn l"d
                        years                                     before,
£iHe then informed us

Soho, London, many
                                                                                                   Compton Street.

                                                                                                   Philosophical In

struments" and Curiosities, and that the price he paid for it was
14s. 6d. We wished to buy it from Mr. Bartlett, but at that time he was
not disposed to part with it. Many years afterwards, we wrote Mr. Bart
lett, inquiring if he was yet disposed to part with the orrery. In his
reply, he informed us, that he had some years before sent it as a pre
sent to the Committee of the Anti-Corn-Law League Bazaar, Man

chester, as his contribution to it. On our applying to the secretary
for the name of the party who purchased it at the Bazaar, we were
informed that the sums received for articles were alone entered in

their books, not the names of the purchasers.                                             So, all trace of this

orrery is for the present lost. (See p. 45.) 353
   4th. Professor Millington, for sometime a Lecturer on Astronomy
and Natural Philosophy in London, had a large wooden orrery which
was made by Ferguson, and which he frequently exhibited in his lecture-
room. It showed the rotation of the Sun, the motions of Mercury,
Venus, the Earth and Moon, as also the, retrograde motion of the

Moon's orbit, and consequently, all the eclipses of the Sun and Moon.
Athbis5otuhot.rrfeoIrnrytywthyieteharysheiamagr.o--,18t(5hS1eee,
                                                                  Professor emigrated     to America and              took
                                                                   page 45.)               of Port Louis,               be
                                                                  Mr. Ceorge Walker

queathed a brass orrery, made by Ferguson, to University College,
                     of which                                     araendgivOernreinrypaugnesite3d2:1--, 3T2h2i.s
London, particulars   Paradox                                                                                     is  a small
   6th, Mechanical
orrery, made by Ferguson in 1760, and which was in the posses
sion of Ferguson's son, John, until his death in 1833. In conse
quence of some dispute about the son's Will, this orrery was sent
by the Executors, along with other items, to the office of Messrs.

  :>"*;iIn the Auti-C'orn-I«iw Bazaar Catalogue, entitled, -- " Catalogue of Paint -
insjs, Models, Articles of Virtu, Curiosities and Specimens of Natural History, on
saw at the Anti-Corn-Law Bazaar, Manchester, October 1845," No. 221, pages

12-13, we find--

  2-1 " Orrery, made by Ferguson, the celebrated Astronomer.

       This machine shows the motions of the Sun, Mercury, Venus, Earth, and
      Moon; and occasionally the superior planets, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn,
      may be put on. Jupiter's Satellites are moved round him in their pro
       per times by a small winch, and Saturn has bis five Satellites and his
       Ring, which keeps its parallelism round the Sun, and by a lamp put in
      the Sun s place, the King shows all the phases described in the 204th
       article of the volume accompanying the Orrery."

   This is the same Orrery, which was, after Ferguson's death, exhibited by the
Scotch publican in the London Inn, called "The Ferauson'fi Head." (See pp.
45and 462\
                                      APPENDIX.                                                   475

Scott and Balderstone, W.S. (now represented by Messrs. Scott,
Moncrieff, and            Dalgetty,   W.S.,    Edinburgh.) See description                        of
tlns one, under           date 1760.  -- This  orrery has just been presented
                                                                                                  to

us, by    James    Lauder      Rutherfurd, Esq.,                 10 Windmill Street, Edin
burgh,              with     several pen-and-ink                  drawings and writings by
         -- along

Ferguson.-- (See pp. 193--200.)
   We have made several inquiries after the large wooden orrery which
                    with  assistance, made in 1744-1745, but without any re
sFuelrtg. usoInt,  would  appear that he presented this orrery to a daughter of

the Right Honourable Sir Stephen Poyntz, about the year 1756.

(See Tables and Tracts, p. 167; also note 111, pp. 162, 163.)
   We    may here remark,     that Ferguson had                        several   emine nt  rivals
in the   art of constructing  orreries ; of whom                      may be    mentioned
                                                                                           --

   1st. Edward Wright, Optician and Mathematical Instrument
             Maker : London.
   2d. John Neal. 1745: In which year he published a description
                   of his Patent Planetary
         J.        Fiddler, Mathematical    Machine, 40 pp. and                 4 plates.
                                            Instrument Maker.
   3d.   Randal Jackson, Clockmaker, 8 Chapel Row,
            London, was also a maker of Orreries, and made
   4th.                                                                         S"pCa-oFmiepldlest,e

                   Orreries, Planetariums, §c, as invented by Messrs. Fergu
                             Moafrt1i4n."pp3.5, 4onJaac"ksNoenw
                   son and                                       was the    author of  a   small
                   pamphlet                                       invented   Orrery."
   5th. George Adams, Optician, &c., Fleet Street, London, made a

               many fine Orreries and Cometary Machines.

   6th. Benjamin Martin, Optician, Orrery Maker, &c., Fleet Street,
                   London, was the maker of several complicated
                   and in 1771, published an Octavo pamphlet                    O" rrOenrietsh,e  &e,,
                                                                                                  De

                   scription and Use of an Orrery" 28 pp. and 1 plate.
   The learned Rev. Dr.       William Pearson, the writer                       of the article
"  Planetary Machines"       in the Edinburgh Encyclopedia,                      in reviewing

the wheel-work results of Orreries             made   "duthriengsmthaell    last century, gives
the preference to Ferguson's : he              says,
                                                                             Orrery of Fergu
son is more correct than any of its predecessors."
   Since Ferguson's time, the Rev. Dr. William Pearson in England,
and M. Antide Janvier in France, stand in the front rank of makers
with accurate, and also equated motions. The late David Forrester,
Teacher, Kirkcaldy; and John Fulton, shoemaker at Fenwick, near
Kilmarnock,                                                           cmaatakleorgsueo, --f c"omMpr.licaBteend
Orreries and       may also be mentioned       as                the
                   Planetaria. According       to                Us

jamin Gorrill, Orrery Machinist, 15 Edward Street, Parade, Birming

ham, makes at the present time, very accurate Orreries at prices from

£25 to £100 and upwards."

   The following is a list of Belies of Ferguson, collected by purchase,
between the years 1830 and 1861, by the Editor of this Memoir,

   854 This advertisement is taken from the title-page of Jackson's pamphlet,
from which it is seen that this was one of several manufactories where orreries
according to Ferguson's plan were made.
470 APPENDIX.

and disposed of by him to the Committee of the Banff Museum in

1864.

   1. An Astronomical Clock. --This clock is in the form of a ship's

chronometer, on which is mounted a small terrestrial globe, on an

axis inclined at an angle of 23A degrees, on which it daily turns from

west to east. The clock has a dial-plate on its cover having 12
hours, and an index connected with the works points out the time
of the day. Also, under the globe there is an oblique-lying dial-

plate, and an index on the inclined axis points out the hours on it
(this dial-plate has 24 hours engraven on it). This time-piece is
about 5 inches in diameter, 3 inches thick, and 7 inches in height
from the base to the North Pole of the globe. On the inside of the

winding-plate are    engraven    t--hevizfo.,lloJowhinngT.naDmeessa, guslhieorw, inLgL.Dto.,  whom
it had successively   belonged,                                                                1729,
Lect. on Nat. et Exp. Phil., London; Benjamin Franklin, LL.D., 1757
(the American statesman and philosopher) ; James Ferguson, F.R.S.,
1766 ; Kenneth M'Culloch, 1774 ; and the initial letters G. W.
    2. An Old Watch, double silver cases, with silver turn-piece over
the key-hole of inner case. The works are very strong, and still in
                         the inside of the rim of
good going order. On    names: --James Ferguson,                the outer case are
engraven the following                                          1746, and Andrew

Reid, 1801.

   3. A Wheel-cutting Engine, with which Ferguson cut the teeth of

the wheels of his orreries, and other astronomical machinery ; full of

dotted circles for almost any number, odd or even ; strong, and in

good condition.                                                                               It has

   4. A Telescope, made by Ferguson about the year 1732.

three pulls or draws, is about 12 inches long when closed, and 33

inches when in focus. It appears to be made of parchment or sheep

skin, is ornamented with horn rings, and covered with a black sort of

skin.

   5. An Enamelled Case, gold mounted. --This is a small tubular
case. In the inside, it is inlaid with tortoise-shell ; on the outside, it

is  ornamented with  four gold hoops  oSrcarlein. g--s ;Thuese   unknown.
    6. An Old Black  Case and Brass                             case contains
                                                                                              a thin

brass scale graduated, and has a brass slider ; supposed to have been

Ferguson's dialling scale.
   7. A Large Engraving of Ferguson's First Astronomical Rotula,

published at Edinburgh in 1741; part wanting; --an exceedingly

scarce print.
   8. An Autograph Rotula by Ferguson, most beautifully written

and figured, consists of three large moveable circles in thick Bristol
board, quite tilled with a mass of figures and small perforated circles,
and, according to its title, ' shows the times of all the new and full
moons and eclipses for 12,000 years.' This is the original Rotula

from which Ferguson published his subsequent ones.

   9. An Autograph Tract by Ferguson, finely written, descriptive of
the Rotula, being original manuscript from which he published his

Rotula Tracts.
                             APPKNDIX.

   10. ' The Universal Analemma,' in the autograph of Ferguson ;
made of strong Bristol board ; moveable horizon, &c.
   11. An Autograph Astronomical Quadrant, made of thick Bristol
board, full of curve lines and figures in Ferguson's autograph.

   12. A Printed Astronomical Rotula ; three moveable circles.
  13. Ferguson's Last Publication, entitled 'A Table of the Equa
tion of Time, London, 1776.'
   14. Ferguson's Likeness. --A fine large print, by Townsend, with
Ferguson's left hand resting on a celestial globe. Proof before

letters.

   The following articles are in a glazed gilded case: -- (1) a Boxwood
Wheel of 33 teeth, cut by Ferguson, being the wheel which carried
round the second satellite in his Satellite Machine
' Tables and Tracts,' p. 158). (2) A Hollow Paper          (see Ferguson's
                                                           Axis, being the
axis of one of the wheels of the Satellite Machine. (3) The Boxwood
Handle or Winch which set in motion the wheel-work of ditto. (4)
A  Semicircular    Graduated Card, in the autograph        of Ferguson. (5)
A  Wheel of 45     teeth, made of thick Bristol board,     beautifully cut by
Ferguson. (6) A Trundle Wheel of 15 cogs, mounted on a triple
crank axis, which was driven by the above wheel of 45 teeth; both

belonged to Ferguson's Electrical       Apparatus.          (7) The    Apogee
Pointer of Ferguson's ' Mechanical                 '       Ferguson's  ' Select
                                    Paradox          (see

Mechanical Exercises,' p. 45.)

   Relics of Ferguson in the possession of the Editor: -- We

have the numerous papers,    Mpeenm-aonidr-;i--nk    drawings, rare prints, tracts,
                                                   Also, the Mechanical Paradox
rotulas, &c, noticed in the                                            G20eo0r;ge24W4--il

Orrery,   the MS.   Card Sun-dial and miniature    poprpt.ra1it93o--f
son of   Grange,   Ferguson's father-in-law. See

246, and 474.

    Sundry  other relics, mentioned in the Memoir.
                          mKbyoatdhFeieebrmgyautysh,oenha.es--tsroaIynnso--ma el"er t--AtebrforoulmattetahlyrJeaemreecmseoivnFetodhrssfyrtaohgm,o
   Snuff    Box, made
            Mr. Moir of
the Rev.
             a snulf-box
I received

whose father's mother was Anne Ferguson, eldest daughter of John

Ferguson, the astronomer's brother. It is a very curious piece of
workmanship. It is mounted in silver. The box is composed of
              of black horn and bones
small staves  small quantity of cotton  alternately. The   snuff-box                                           con
tains a very                            with the seeds in                                                      also,
                                                              -- and
aa
                                                       a

                                                             is
                                                                                  a

                                                                                                            a

                                                                                              it,
                                                                                                     is
   small quantity of wool of a brown colour which Ferguson said' to

have procured at Forres, where there was manufactory for making
cloth of the colour similar to that of the wool in the box. James

Forsyth stated that the box had been in the Ferguson family from
the days of the astronomer." This certainly great curiosity, and

   most interesting relic.

   Goi,o Signet Ring. --We have been informed that Mr. Gordon,
Innkeeper, Keith, has gold signet-ring which belonged to John
478 APPEN'DIX.

"Fe3r.gufs.o"n,cuEtsq0.11--a  the youngest son            of   Ferguson.           It has the initials
                               Cornelian stone,               in a jointed
                                                         set                       gold frame, which

scibseoarlsbvoheluysorw, tanhss,eliagghhllaaitdzilerydtootiofncvgoeFevred,errgawuansidotrhenuce--ngsdsrei.efry,stoOha,enndtghtlhaepsenlsalititideshdis"betahiinsrlgeiteato-lefpmoeldnhoeasdti"r',--iontvhtfeeerareyrseltciipgnershgost

and valuable relic.

Astronomical Rotula, in Culloden House, near Inverness (p. 40.)

  Tide Rotlla, in the autograph of Ferguson, in the possession of

William Topp, Esq., Ashgrove, near Elgin (p. 371).

   Lunarium Rotula, in the autograph of Ferguson, in the posses
sion of Mr. Robert Sim, Keith.

Letter: -- The Letter written by Ferguson to the Rev. Mr. Cooper
of Glass, relative to the origin of the Mechanical Paradox, in the
possession of Mr. Robert Sim, Keith
                              ;                                        145, 146).
                                                                  (p.
Letter: -- The Letter written by Ferguson to Rev. Alexander Ir
vine of Elgin; now in the Museum of Elgin (p. 225).

   Letters: -- The Letters written by Ferguson to Rev. Dr. Birch, in
the British Museum also, the letters in the possession of the Editor, &c.

of WEdaintcbhurgMhov--empuebnlti:sh--edIninthe18c6a3ta--loagtuepagoef     the  Antiquarian Society
                                                                          76   and No. 89, we iind
" Astronomical Watch Movement, said to have been made for James

Ferguson the Astronomer."

   The Beatson Likeness: -- in oil --in the possession of Mrs. Thomp

son, Nethercluny, Mortlach, Banffshire (p. 215).

   The Casborne               Likeness: -- The Likeness done in chalk, in the
possession of Mrs.            Casborne, New House, Pakenham, near Bury St.
Edmunds (p. 13).

Bible: -- The Bible, so often referred to, now in the possession of
Dr. George, at Keith
                              72).(p.
                                             p.
   Manuscript Volumes: -- The                          th2r2e4e,--MS".AVstorlounmoemsy, ,"  viz.:   "Astrono
                                                                                               pp.   235, 236,
mical Tables and Precepts,"

and the "Common Place Book, pp. 446, 447; in the College Library,

Edinburgh.

The Ferguson Prize; Grammar School, Keith: -- In letter re
                                                                                            a

ceived from the             Rev. Dr.   F.                   Gordon     osafysS, t.reAganrddrienwg'stheEppirsiczoep: --al
Chu" rchi,nsGtitlaustegdow  -- native  of
                              a                        Keith, --he
                                                     S.

I                           the prize in 1862, to be competed for at the yearly

examination by the Presbytery of the Parochial School of Keith, my

native town, and where was early taught. give £1 annually, for the
                              1                                        I
                                        is
encouragement of natural talent in Mechanical Art of any kind," &c.
   With Dr. Gordon's letter one received by him from Mr. Smith,
                                            APPENDIX.                                                        479

teacher of the              school ; the following is    copy  of part of                                it  referring
                       --  have been able to comply      with  your wish                                 in  the mat
to  "thAetplraizset :
                       we

Iter of the Ferguson prize, as regards mechanical models. Some six

months before the examination, intimated to the scholars that you
wished it to be understood that in competing for the Ferguson prize,
any model or mechanical contrivance would, in future, be preferred
to trials in Geographical or Astronomical problems; informing them,

at the same time, that the prize would accordingly be given for a
model, provided three candidates appeared. In a day or two, no less
then twelve gave in their names, and on the day of examination
they all appeared with their models ; consisting of harrows, ploughs,

boats, ships, one wheelbarrow, one locomotive and tender, (model
of the outside appearance only), one steam mill, (not in working or
dcleors)e, da;n--d   a working   model of a                   machine, with a fan in
                    The Judges   unanimously       thrashing  the prize to the maker of
                                                    awarded

the last-named article, made by             James        M'Connachie from Nether                              Bal-
lendy, Glenrinnes. This model                 is a
                                                       very perfect one -- well got                          up--
and done principally with the boy's knife. Several of the visitors
expressed a wish to purchase
    :                                              but the maker seemed unwilling to

                                              it,
part with it. The successful candidates from the commencement of
the first trial                         in
under --               for  the  prize      18G3   to  the present year (I860) are as

    1863. --Robert Mantach from Rothes, aged 14. Subject, Drawing

    1864.  --       Maps.        Gordon,    Fife-Keith,  aged  15.  Subject, Geogra
                    William

    1865.  --       phical Problems.        and Robert   Munro, Keith,                                   equal, aged
                    Charles Wilson,

                    respectively, 16 and 15. Subject, General Arithmetic

    1866.  --       (prize  divided).       from       Glenrinnes,  aged 14.                                 Subject,
                    James    M'Connachie                            Thrashing                                Machine
                    Mechanics, -- for working model of
a
                    and Fan.
             it
                                                                    James Smith,
                                   a    Grammar School, Keith, 9th April 1866. "355
                                                   i. a

                                                               a
                                                                                       is

                                                                                           p. a a
                                                                                                      a
    We cordially wish that success may attend this praiseworthy
scheme; may be the means of bringing out modern Ferguson.

Might   not some            of the  future models be made to show the motions
of the  Earth, the          Moon,
                                    or those of other celestial bodies? --matters in

which Ferguson so much delighted, and was so great master.

   Eucmd, Prop, xlvii. b. -- Under date 1743, 60, will be found
   mechanical or rather ocular demonstration of Euclid, Book 1st.,

Prop. 47th, being copy of card which Ferguson kept, cut out into

    355 In this communication the school of Keith designated the Parochial
School, and the Grammar School, but                they both refer to one and the                        s"amabeoustchthoroele.
                                                   in or shortly after 1717, had
It will be remembered that Ferguson,
montlu)'" instruction at the Grammar School of Keith. (P. 7.)
480 APPENDIX.

sections for showing to his friends. Subjoined are two other demon
strations, equally simple, taken from an old M.S. Euclid in our

possession.

   In Fig. 1. let the sides of the right-angled triangle on which the

small squares are to be raised be to each other as the numbers 3, 4,
                                                                                   in the
afignudre5;--thaennd,  upon     such   sides, raise the divided squares as shown  side or
                       it will    be  obvious, that the square raised on the

hypothenuse 5, will contain 25 equal squares, and the two squares
traised on the sides 3 and 4 will contain respectively 9 and 16 similar
squares. Hence 9                16 = 25 squares, the sum of the squares 3 and

                                          Fig. 1.

                                          >«

                                      «7           IO

                                                         it &

                                      *U

                                          Fig. 2.
                                       APPENDIX.                                                                                       481

4, which      are equal   to the  sum of the    squares                        contained in the square
raised on       side 5,           hvpothenuse.       (See                       also " Common Place
                         -- the

Book,"    p. 189).                        -- Let the hypothenuse,                                                                      or base A,
    Fig.  2. shows another illustration
or base of the triangle be of any given length -- on the length fixed on
dlCeen:s--gctrhiTb,oeadsaeismnquotanhrseet.rafitgeuLreoetc--utlahtrheleysn, idtuehpsaotonfthtthheeeasrteridiaaenosgf lreathiseeBse  and C be of equal
                                       area of the                                                                                  the squares 13 and
                                       horizontally                                                                                   two small squares

are precisely  --edqruaawl  to  the                   larger                   square                                                  below, on the
hypothenuse                 a   line                   across                   them,                                                  dividing them

into two, through their diagonals, as shown. Then divide the large
square through the diagonals also, and it will become evident that

the large square has by the process been divided into the four
equal triangles, 1, 2, 3, 4, and that they are of exactly the same
size as are the four triangles, 1, 2, 3, 4, contained in the two squares

above, described on the sides B. tJ.

  Remarkable Fish ; (see p. 278.)--The following letter from Fer

guson to Dr. Birch, relative to a singular fish caught in King Road
near Bristol, in 1763, is extracted from the Philosophical Transac
tions, but was received too late for insertion under its proper date.

                                                           Bristol, May 5th, 17U3.
   Reverend Sir,

                        I herewith take the liberty of sending you a drawing of
a very uncommon kind of fish which was lately caught in King Koad,35li a
few miles from this city; and is now shown at Hot- Wells. 357 It fought violently

against the fishermen's boat after they got it into their net, and was killed with
                                                it
                                                              is,
great difficulty. Nobody here can tell what fish it only some say                                                                      a Sea
                                                                                                                                       it
                                                                                                                                           is
                                                                                                                                                   it
Lion but to the best of my remembrance answers not to the description or
is ;figure of the Sea Lion, that given in Lord Anson's voyage. took the drawing
on the spot, and do wish had had my Indian ink and pencils, by whichI is                                                            I

might have been better shaded but hope you will excuse the roughness of
                                       ;  I

the draught, as  it      the best ever made with pen. The length of the
                     is           I                                         a
                                                                                 a
fish four feet nine inches, and the thickness in proportion, as in the
                                foot in width and of
figure. The mouth           is  ;a                                                  squarish form                                      ;;        has

                                   it                                                                                                     is it
three rows of sharp small teeth, very irregularly set, and at some dis
                                                                                                                                                 all
tance from each other                  has no tongue, nor narrow gullet, but

the way down, as far as one can see, like great hollow tube in the          a
back of the mouth within, there are two openings like nostrils, and about

nine inches below the jaw, and under these openings are two large knobs,
                                                      little below which, on the breast
from which proceed several short teeth          ;
                                                   a

side, another knob with such teeth. On each side within, and about
is                                                                                                                                               a

foot below the jaws, there are three cross-ribs, somewhat resembling the
straight bars of a chimney-grate, about an inch distant from each other,
through which we see into great cavity within the skin towards the breast;
and under the skin, these cavities are kept distended by longitudinal ribs
                  is a
                                     a

                                                   3
                                                  p

                                                                         a
356 Hot-Wells-- well-known locality about mile below Bristol, on the banks

of the Avon, and in the immediate vicinity of St. Vincent's Rocks, and new Sus

pension Bridge.          nearly 10 miles below Bristol, in the river Severn, near to
   357 King Road

where     it  receives the waters of the Avon.
Ml APPENDIX.
plain to the touch on the outside. I put my arm down through the mouth
quite to my shoulder, but could feel nothing in the way, so that its heart,
stomach, and bowels must lie in a very little compass near its tail, the body
thereabout being very small. From the neck proceed two small horns, hard
and very elastic, not jointed by rings as in lobsters; and on each side of the
back there are two considerable sharp-edged risings of a black and long sub
stance; between each eye and the breast there is a cavity somewhat like the
inside of the human ear, but it doth not penetrate to the inside. From each
shoulder proceeds a strong muscular tin, close by which, towards the breast,
is an opening through which one may thrust his hand and arm quite up
through the mouth, and between these fins proceed from the breast two short

Sketch i,f the Remarkable Fish from Abrid. Phil. Trans.

paws, somewhat like the fore-half of a human foot, with five toes joined to
gether, having the appearance of nails; near the tail are two large fins, one
on the back, the other under the belly; the skin is of a dark brown colour, but
Ifdarker spotted in several places, and entirely without scales.35s
                                                                     you think
Ithis in any way deserves notice of the Royal Society, shall be very glad of
p.                     and am, with the greatest esteem, Reverend Sir,
      ayour communicating

                   it,your most obliged and humble servant,     James Ferguson.

                                                    isAbrid. Phil. Trans., Vol. MIL,

170; year 17fi3.

Ferguson Memorial Pillar: -- It has of late been frequently sug
gested that Memorial Pillar or Obelisk ought to be erected at Core-

of-Mayen on the site   of   the cottage                  where  coFuenrgtyus--ontakweasthbeosrnta. rt  Let
the men of Banffshire      Ferguson's                   native                                         and
                       --

   3f>s As noted at page 278, this tish                 the Lomj Angler of Pennant, or SoIyhicus
Couubicus of Shaw.
                                            APPENDIX.                                                48a

the lead in this meritorious object: let them form a working com

mittee and issue circulars soliciting subscriptions, and the call would
                                                                               We shall be happy
no  doubt be    responded            --to swhioduelldy       and liberally.  remain, it might be
to  contribute    our mite:                                  any surplus

expended on     --ren(Soeveatipnaggesthe440to, m4b50)i.n       Old    St.    Mary-le-Bone       church
yard, London.

    Biographical Notices: -- Since his death in 1776, Biographi
cal notices of Ferguson have appeared                                 --oinnpattrhhteeicuUlEannrilcvyyecrsloienp, a--ethdNeiaiscEhdoainlnsd'
                                                                      Library, -- Chambers' Lives
other works in this and other countries
        ofEnBcoywclyoepra, e--diaM,i--tchEeul'dsosiSac,otasmpaonem's
burgh
Life

oucoimffseeEhsm--i.s"i--nfoeeunIxnntcdeelS1ldec8no5tt7osnmmMetehrn.me, o&eHiacre,.rlnyprByrleiuffeMtixaaeoydlflhFtehtewoergnuhposisutoibcn"eli--ssSheaeelrednecttistaliemnMdpeilcny"htaeTanrhebiecsraitdilSngtgmoEreyxvneotorslf

the Peasant-Boy Philosopher."

Theological Papers. -- At pages 200 and 241, are inserted Papers
on Theological subjects ; in the former page other papers are men
                                                                                                it evidently
tioned,     atondthaeltsheoriuegs.h--tIhte  Lsfotlalokewninfgromone"  is not named,             Book," p. 5.
belongs                                                               Common Place

   "The Mosaic account of the Creation (Gen. shown to agree
with the Newtonian Philosophy.

   This denied by many, because Moses tells us the first thing that
            is                                                               ;
                                 is
was made was light, and that there were three days and three nights               i.)

before the Sun was created, which was not till the fourth day of the                      :
original week. They cannot reconcile this with true philosophy, be                           a
cause all our light from the Sim, our day being turned toward him,

and our night from being turned away from him and therefore, they

say that Moses must have wrote his account from tradition only, and
not from Revelation, so that from this part of Scripture the Deists

ridicule the whole.
It recorded in the last verse of the 24th chapter of Exodus, that
        is

Moses was forty days and nights in the Mount with God (probably
our Saviour). And although we have an account of great many
instructions which were given him during his long stay there, (see
from ch. 24th to ch. 32) yet, undoubtedly, there was time for many
more. May we not therefore suppose that he then received an ac
count of the Creation, which was upwards of two thousand years
                                                                             account of
        that time? My                                                        follows --
        philosophically
      is                                                     that Moses's                       the  Crea
                                                          is,   explain as

                                      I
before                               opinion
tion                                 true, which

In the beginning, God brought all the particles of matter into be
ing in those different parts of open space where the Sun and planets

were to be formed, in sufficient quantities for each body, and en
dued each particle with an attractive power, by which these neigh
bouring (and at first detached) particles would in time come together,
in their respective parts of space; and so would form the different
bodies of the solar system.
The particles which now compose the body of the Sun would shine
484 APPENDIX.

when separate from eaeh other, aml give as much light all rouiiil
them, as when they were afterward collected into oue body by their
mutual attractions, which might require four days. So that, if these
were the first particles of matter in our system which were brought
into being by the Almighty Power, light must have been the effect of
that powerful word, before the Earth or any other planet existed ;

and three days before these shining particles were collected into a

globular body called the Sun.
On the first day of the creation week, before the particles which
now compose the Earth had come together, so as to form a regular
                                                                    mass of
solid  globe (Gen. i. 2),  the Deity  gave   the whole unformed    come to
them   a rotatory motion:  -- and as  they  could not all at once

gether into a solid mass, they would, by their rotation, acquire a spher
oidal figure or shape, such as the Earth has had from the beginning
of time. The planet Jupiter, by its quick rotation, is also a

spheroid.
   The earthly mass having received its rotatory motion on the first

day of the creation week, and being enlightened by the detached solar
particles of matter, day and night would begin immediately thereon,
and continue to be successive on all sides of the Earth.

On- the fourth day of the week, the luminous particles were col

lected together by their mutual attraction, into one globular body ;

and then they became the Sun.

The attraction of all the solar particles taken together, would be as

great before they were collected into one body as afterwards; and con
sequently, would reach through all the bounds of the solar system.

It is therefore highly probable, that, to keep the earthly mass from
being drawn toward these particles, the Deity impressed the annual
motion upon the Earth on the first day of the original week, when ho
gave the Earth its rotatory motion; and so, the day, the week, and

the year began together.
   As these particles of the earthly mass gravitated toward its centre,

the light aerial particles would swim above on its surface, and form
an atmosphere all around it; and the Sun would exhale moist va
pours from the earth into its atmosphere, which would then divide the
water on the Earth from those which had risen above it. These va

pours would form a mist in rising (Gen.      6), and afterwards descend
in dew, to water the surface of the ground.it
          It

                    I
                                   i. ii.
                                                                  it
                                                                                       is
   By the firmament, called heaven (ch. 6), which Moses tells us
divided the waters from the waters, imagine he meant only that
atmosphere which bears up the watery clouds till they fall down in
rain; for we usually say, rains from the heavens.

    On the whole, then, appears that Moses wrote from Revelation,
and not from tradition, seeing that his account of the creation so

strictly conformable to the Newtonian Philosophy, (and who can say
that Newton was not God Almighty's scholar?)359 although                                 was
written upwards of 2,000 years before Sir Isaac Newton was born.360
                                             James Ferguson."
                                         APPENDIX.                                             485

    The following is        copy of       a   "Geometrical        Card" received          too  late
for insertion under         its date.
                                         --  It is entitled

             A plain proof, that the three angles of any plain right-lined
                                    Triangle contain 180 degrees.

   The explanation          -- in  Ferguson's autograph -- on the back                    of the
Card, is as follows         :--      " Explanation.

   Cut  a common card into any right-lined triangular                            shape, as
                                                                                  by three
ABC,    (Fig.               at random, and mark the angular points
      a
letters, as in the figure.1.)

Then, cut off the angle at A, any how, by pair of scissors, as
                                             e                                   2,
                                                                                                 in
                                               d. B
                                                           Ca
the line bee, and separate the angles and from one another, by

cutting them asunder, as in the line
This done, lay all the three parts (so separated from each other)
upon semicircle, divided into 180 degrees, as in Fig.                             so as the
                             C, may meet at the centre F; and you will
angular points A,           B,
find that the three angular pieces will just fill the semicircle. For
                               p.                   foot note which says -- " The
359 Ferguson, by an asterisk here, refers to5.      a
Hutchinson ians do indeed damn Sir Isaac; but every one who attends to demonp.
strative truth, allows, that they are the most vrronghcaded sett of people
the face of the earth; regarding neither reason nor demonstration."                       J.   uYp. o--n

"Common      Place Book,"                   (See also foot note,       422).     -- (See  Moderr
   360 This        singular, and       original exposition of     the Creation.
             is
               a

Theories of the Earth, Ac.)
486 APPENDIX.

the piece Abe of Fig. 1. will make Abe of Fig. 2. The piece
B deb of Fig. 1. will make R d eb of Fig. 2, and the piece G c ed
of Fig. 1. will make C c ed of Fig. 2. And moreover, if the angular

points of Fig. 1. be made the centres of arcs, the radius of each equal
to the radius of the semicircle, all these arcs will join when the pieces

are put together as in Fig. i, and will just make a semicircle, Q. E. D.

                                                              James Ferguson, 1756."

See Euclid, B. 1st, Prop. xiv. and xxxii. ;-- also, " Common Place

Book," p. 186.                Cards --see pp. 60,               170-175,  and 361.
   For the other Geometrical

   Ferguson's Visits to     Kew, &c. -- At              pages   353, 354, notice   is
taken of Ferguson's visits  to Kew and St.             James's  :-- Dr. Houlstou,  in

his Obituary Notice of  IFIeI.rg)us"ofnreqiunenthtley  Annual Register, informs us
that the King (George                                  sent for, and conversed with
him on curious topics." -- Dodsley's Annual Register, vol. 19. 1776.
This should have been
   Mr. Partington, the  copied into the letter at p. 462.                 " Lectures
                        editor of an edition of Ferguson's
on Select Subjects," mentions in his addenda to the autobiographi
cal memoir prefixed to the edition, that ---" for some years prior to his
death, Mr. Ferguson was in the frequent habit of visiting the royal
residences at Kew and St. James's, his late Majesty             sbceieinngce.m" --uchParatt-
tached to the company and conversation of men of

ington's Ferguson's Lectures, p. xliv.
                                               IND EX.

Abduction -- Agnes Ferguson, &c., pp. 281                                               duced from its Synodic period, 366 ;
                                                                                        Wheelwork for producing this motion,
--285.                                                                                                      Vide also                     In"dMexoonfo"r
                                                                                                           fCalculations,"
Aberdeen,  Opdpd. ,  5,   6,  15,  30,    32,  34.                                      121--122.      "                           the
Accident,             7.                                                                "Clocks,"                                    and
                                                                                        ApIxsarance, personal, of Ferguson, 463 --
Accident to Ferguson's leg, 216.

Achandacy, 4.                                                                           464.
Achorties, 4.
                                                                                        Appendix, 459--486.
                                                                                        Apprentices his son James to an optician,
Achoynaney, 18, 22, 28, 39.                         454--
Adams, George, optician, London,                                                            278.
                                                                                        Apron and gown patterns, drawn by Fer
457

Address of Ferguson in London in 1748,                                                     guson. 29--30.
   123; in 1749, 139; in 1754, 185; in                                                  Archimedes's Sphere -- Claudius lines on,
   1757, 216; in 1761, 251 ; in 1763, 271 ;
                                                                                            320--321.  --
in 1700-- 1776, 334, 443, 451>.                                                         Ardueadlie         or  Braebead,           15.
                          newspaper, 338 -- 341,                                        Armillary Trigonometer, the, 248-- 249.
Advertisements,                                                                         Art of Drawing in
                                                                                           lished, i; 439--
407--409.                                                                                                       Perspective,              the-- pub
Ages of Ferguson and his family in 1758,                                                                       440.
                                                                                        Artificial Clock Maker, the-- hv Derham,
226.
Ahaz, sun-dial of, 206.
                                                                                            43, 79.                                new- at Rath --cu
Air-pump, 216.                                                                          Assembly     Rooms, the
Airev, <t. H., Esq., Astronomer Roval,                                                  rious calculation regarding, 384 -- 385.
                                                                                        Astronomer-Royal-- G. B. Airey, Esq.,
   222, 3it5.
Alexander, John (painter), Edinburgh, 34.                                               222, 395.
Allan, Rev. James (Grange), 47, 449,467.
Almanack, Tycho Wing's, &c., 50; Per                                                    Astronomical Clocks. 219--222.297--301.
                                                                                        Astronomical Examiner, and James Fer-
   petual Almanack, 154---156.
                                                                                           gusson, 471.
Alphabet, combination of the letters of                                                 Astronomical Instrument, New, 223.
    the, 308.                                                                           Astronomical Rotulas, 15--16, 38-- 39,
American Philosophical                              -- Fer
                                   Society,                                             41, 50, 55, 57--58, 169, 179, 230, 369--

   guson elected a member of, 376.                                                      371, 440--441.
Analysis of a Course of Lectures, pub.,
                                                                                        Astronomical Tables and Precepts, 277--
278, 355.                                                                                  278; MS., 224.
Anatomy, Surgery, and Physic, violent
   inclination to                                                                       Astronomical Wheelwork for an Orrery,
Ancient clocks,                                                                         74, 76--78, 131--132, 186--192; for
                     3s8tu5d--y,     37.                                                a Planetarium, 264--266; for a Sat
                                  387.                                                  ellite Machine, 162 -- 166; for the
Angle, on the trisection of, 390-- 391.                                                 Nodes Wheelwork, 85, 191. 196, 199;
Angle Trisector. 399--400.
                                                                                        for the Apogee Wheelwork, 132, 191,
Annalemma, 414.                                                                         196, 199: for a Clock, 117--120, 220--
Annand, Rev. Mr. (Keith), 5, 15, 17, 18,                                                222, 301: Tidal Clock, 365 -- 368;

216, 377.
Annual Register (Dodsley's). 357, 402, 462.                                             Lech's Old Clock, 397--398; for Lu
Annual wheelwork                                                                        nar Motion, 120--122. 148--149, 157--
   tion of the earth,         fo8r0--p8ro3d, u8c9in--g 92th,e   mo                                                                  I"ndOerxrerfoiers""V"aSlnudna."-
                                                               119                   ;  (1'*t5oM8n.so,<" mV""idCealoncdaklss,'o*"
                                                                                                                                   Mars."
Earnshaw's, 301.

Annuity, Royal-- of £50 bestowed on Fer
guson, 53 -54. 258--259, 263.                                                                           on Sir                                       Prin
Answer to                                                                               Astronomy    published,                    Isaac Newton's     copy
   Turning   tFohenergitu"ssoAAnn'xssisw,eEr1s,s2"a6y--15o91n2--7t;1h6eS0u.pMpoleon        ciples,                                  213-- 215 ; MS.

    ment to                                                                             of, 235-236.

Apogee Wheelwork, 99, 132, 191,                                                         Astronomy, Gentleman and Lady's, pub
Apparatus, 226 ; catalogue of, 344
                                                    196.                                lished, 349-- ?51.
                                                    -- 348.                             Atkinson, Charles, Esq^., 321.
\pparent level, and the true, 379 -- 380.
                                                                                        Atmosphere, Weight ot,                     260--261.
Apparent daily motion of the moon de                                                    Aubert's Meridian-line,                    391 -- 392.
488 INDEX.

Auchmedden, 28, 31, 32, 60.                          Mrs. Ferguson, 47; Right Hon. Stephen
Auldearn, 44.                                        Foyntz, 48, 58, &c. ; Duke of Northum
Avoirdupois and Troy Weight, 241.                    berland, 48 ; Martin Folkes, Esq. . 49 ,
Axle, Wheel and, 9 -10.                              Dr. Desagulier, 150; James Ferguson,

                                                     jun., 188; Edward Waring, 201; Dr.
                     B                               John Ford, 202; Andrew Miller, 214:
                                                     Edward Nairne,                          6cc. ; John
liadder, Mr., and Moon's Trajectorv Path,            Harrison, 226;      --216--Go2r1d7o.n,    227 ; Dr.
                                                     Franklin, 231--232; Adam Walker,
    49, 178.                                         239; Prince Edward, 247 ; Mungo Mur
Baird, William , Esq. , Auchmedden, 28, 31,          ray, 248 ; Princess Amelia, 270 ; Fr.UK-is
                                                     Hauksbee. 273 ; Captain William Hut
   32, 33, 34, 35, 60, 164, 472 ; death of, 32.      chinson, 292; Edward Earnshaw, 300;
                                                     Rev. Dr. Thomas Birch, 325; Dr.
Baird, Sir James, Bart., Eduionston, near            Charles Hutton, 360; Andrew Reid,
                                                     368; William Guthrie, 384; William
   Edinburgh, 30--31.
lialance, Watch. 2u.
Balderatone, Mr., W.S., 447, 469.
Balfour, Professor James. 472.                       Upeott, Esq. , 408 ; Rev. John Kennedy,
Ball and Hoop ; Season illustrator, 67--70.          439 : Rev. Mr. Cooper. 441 ; John North-
Balloch Hill. IS.                                    cote, 44s ; Dr. William Buehan, 453;
Balls, Mr., 408.
                                                                               FJaermguessonF,erg4u6sso--n,
Balveny Castle, 20, 24.                              Agnes   Ferguson, 468:
Banff, 5, 12, 30; Museum, 164. 466-467.              jun.,  468; Murdoch
                                                        469; John
Baptism,     Records of    Ro3--thi6e.may  and  Fer  Biographical  Ferguson,    469--471.
    guson's  Birth entry,                                          Notices of  Ferguson -- Appen
Barker's Mill. 154.
Rarnhill and Janet Ferguson. "21.                       dix. 483.
                                                     Birch, Rev. Dr. Thomas. London, 49, 71,

Barometer Table, fcc., 337--338.                     166, 178, 216, 278, 290, 292, 296 ; death
Bartlett, Mr., watchmaker, Maidstone,                of, 325, 481.

   and Ferguson's Orrery, 45, 473-- 474.             Birth-place of Ferguson, 2--5.
Bath; Lectures, &c.. 125, 272; Adver                 Birth and Crucifixion of Christ, on the,

tisements, 338, 341; Assembly Boom,                     206--213.
                                                     Bla--ke2,S4.Doctor, and Agnes Ferguson, 282
   384-- 385.
Baxtonden, Mr. (Liverpool), 294.                     Blair, Rev. Dr., Prebendarv of Westmin
Beads and Thread used by Ferguson in
   ascertaining the apparent relative dis            ster, 418.

tances of the stars, 13--15.                         Blakev's Engine, model of. 333--334.
                                                     Blind Man's Clock, by Jacob Lech, 396
Beads, Bifiley's and Ferguson's, 295.
Beast, name and number of, 206, 241 --                  --399.
                                                     Bodies, on the Velocity of falling, 377--
243.

Beatson. John (Painter), and Ferguson's                 379.
                                                     Bodies, Platonic, 269--270.
    likeness. 215. 4t>4.                             Bolt Court. Fleet Street.       London (Fer
Beckman's History of Inventions, 396-                                                 1766--1776),
                                                        guson's last residence,
   398.                                                 334, 368, 445, 451, 468.
Belchier, John, 274.
Bell, poor, 225.
Bell, of the neck of a broken bottle, 24.            lionnycastlc's Astronomy, 70.
Bell Inn-- Broad Street, Bristol, and Lec            Boswell . James, Esq. , 472.
                                                     Bowie, Rev. Dr. Matthew, Kinghorn, 473.
   tures, 408.                                       Braco. William Duff, Esq. of. Earl of Fife,
Hf nt, William, London, 465.
Uiunchini and Venus s Rotation Period, 87.              20, 23.
Bible, Jean Dunbar's (Lady Dipple). 29.
Bible. Ferguson's, 72, 127, 177 . 236, 282,          Ilraehead, 15.
                                                     Brand, Alexander, and William. 469.
                                                     Brewster, Sir David, 215, 247, 344, 371.

467.                                                 403. 439. 447. 463.

Biographical Notes :--     Ferguson's      parents,  Bridge Buildings, Ferguson's method of.
                             (Ferguson     s elder
  5 -6, kc. ; John                                   373--374.
brother), 6; James Glashan, 14,377;
Dr. Young, 23; Rev. John Gilchrist,                  Bristol. Lectures. &c.. 338--341.

15--16; John Skinner, 17; Thomas                     Broad Street, Bristol, and Lectures. 27'-.

Grant, Esq., 18; Alexander Cantlv,                      408.
19--20; Earl of Fife, 20; Sir James                  Broad Street. Golden Square, London --

Dunbar. 20; Lord Pitsligo, 34; John                      Ferguson's residence in 1754,
Alexander, 34; Rev. Robert Keith,                    Bryson, Mr., factor to Earl of Seafield, 20.
35; Ladv Jane Douglas, 36: Lady                      Buchan, Dr. William, 451.
Dipple,      28--30 ; William   Baird. Esq.",        Burning Mirror -- Villette's, and its power.
31-- 32;     Rev. Alexander    Mac bean. 41 ;
                                                        319--320.    C,  72.   282.
Professor Colin Maclaurin . 42 : Richard             Burt, Augustus
                                                     Bury St. Edmund's and Murdoch Fer
Cooper, 42 ; Rev. Alexander Irvine, 44 ;
Baron Edlin, 45 ; John Ellicott, 46 ;                   guson, 410, 464.
                                                     Busts, imaginary sale of, 357 -- 35S.
                                              INDEX.                                                                                        489

                   c calculation on the number of days in a
                                                                                                  y4e2a7r--,  422;   on Kennedy's Sidereal   Day,
Cadell. Thomas, tn>okseller and publisher,                                                                    428 ;  on deducing a Synodic  Revo

London, 420, 449--454.                                                                            lution of the Moon from the period of
Cadell, Mr., Bristol, 40S.                                                                           the Earth, &c. , 434--435 ; Ferguson's As
Caird's Hill, 15.
Calamity, Domestic, 279-- 2S5.                                                                       tronomical Question to Kennedy solved,
Calculations on Astronomical Periods,                                                                434--435.
            &c. -- On  raising                the roof  of                                        Calculator, the. 130--133.
Wheelwork,  father's   cottage,                8-- 9;   on                                        Cambridge, Ferguson at, &e., 201.
Ferguson's                                                                                        Cameron, Mr. James, Inverness, 4"----41.
theLever,9-- 11 ; Durn Gateway-stones, Camus, 45; "Cours de Mathenmtiques,"
2la8ti;onFse, rgu3so9n--'s40;InveWrnheesesls  Nodal calcu
                                               for annual                                             81.
                                                                                                  Cannon Ball, on the velocity of. 259.
train, 45; Period of the Nodes, 52; Cantley, Alexander, 17, 18, 19, 20, 23,
Trajectorium Lunare, 65 ; Periodic                                                                   24, 28 : Fac-similc of his pen-printed
Revolutions of the Moon, the Earth,                                                                  signature, 20.
and Venus in an Orrery, 75-- 76 : an                                                              Cantley, William, 19.
nual train, 76 ; Moon's Synodic Revolu
                                                                                                  Cantly, 4.
tion, 79--81 ; Earth's period Wheel- Card Sun-dial, 15, 244--216.
work, 81--83; Period of Nodes, 85-- Cards, Geometrical, 60, 169-- 175, 361.
86 ; Period of Venus, 86 -S7 ; Period Casborne, Mrs., New House, Pakenham,
of Mercury and Venus, 88 -89; Rota                                                                Suffolk, 18.
tion of the Sun, 89: Motion of Winch Cassini's period of Vemis's rotation, 87.
of Orrery, 90 ; Earth's Diurnal Motion . Catalogue of Ferguson's apparatus in 1743,
a Lunation, Solar rotation, Revolutions                                                           when he left Scotland, 57 ; in 1758, 226 ;
                   NoMdeercaunrdy,PaNraoltlealtiisomn
of Venus and                                            of                                           in 1767, 344--348.
Venus, Moon's                                           of                                        Cause, the great Douglas, 36.

the Earth, and Earth's annual train, Celestial Globe, the. improved, 107--110.
91--92; Solar and Sidereal day, 114; Centrifugal Machine, 137--139.
Synodic Revolution of Moon, 118; the Certificate in favour of Ferguson, 274.
periods of the Earth, the Moon, and the Charge by Ferguson for cleaning and oil
Stars, 119; Apparent Motion of the                                                                ing clocks, 27.
Moon, 120--122; Apogee Period, 132; Charter Chest of the Earl of SeaBeld, 26.
Synodic Revolution of Moon, 14S-- 149; Chelmsford, Ferguson at; paper on Twi
Lunar Motion, 158 ; Henderson's new                                                               light, 255.
wheelwork for the 1st and 2d Satellites Chichester Cathedral, and Solar pheno
of Jupiter, 164--166; on the Calendar,                                                            mena, caused by its steeple, 295.
                   Revolution of              Moon                                                Christ's Hospital School, Newgate Street,
168 ; the Synodic  Earth's period,            189 --                                                  London, and Ferguson's lecture on
deduced from the
190; Nodes and Apogee Periods, 191 --                                                                 Eclipses, 51.
      CthoenjuSnucnt,ive20p1e--rio2d0s5; of CthoenjuPnlacntieotns                                 Chronology, Scriptural, and Rev. John
196;
with                                                                                              ChKuercnhneodf'yK. e2i7th4,--247-76. .

of the hands of a watch, 206 ; Sidereal                                                           Church of Old St. Mary-lc-Bone, London,
Day, 221-- 222: Conjunction of the
hands of a clock. 239--241 ; Pyrometer,
                                                                                                  445, 449.
                               the Sun,                                                           Church of Ord, 28.
240 ; on the        Cycles of  252 -- 253     Moon,                                               Circle, Squaring the, 261 ; on Division of,
and Roman          Indiction.                 ; Con

junction of the three hands of a clock.                                                           322, 324 ; into equal circular areas, 359
254; Earnshaw's train for the Earth's
                                                                                                  --362.
period, 301 ; new Pyrometer. 305 ; Cis Cistern question, 309--310.
tern Question, 309"--310; Time con Claudin's Lines on Archimedes's Sphere,
tained in any number of Lunations,
                                                                                                  320--321.

315--319; on teeth in wheels, 323; on                                                             CCllaoycktosn: ,--WHiollrisaem-H. eEasdq.,Clo4c5k., 12; Wooden
3twh3oe6rk--c,en33t3r47e2;--ofM3g4ur3dag;veiA'tsyccoufrLauEtenaartthLiounannadrWMthroaeoeinnl-,.     Clock. 24; Wooden Clock, by Rev.
343 ; Apparent Revolution period of the                                                              Alexander Irvine, 44 : Astronomical
                                                                                                  t'lock on the motion of the Sun, Moon,

Moon deduced from a mean Synodic                                                                  and Stars, 113--119; Equation Clock
revolution, 368 : On Falling Bodies, 377                                                          hyEUicott,219-- 222; Ferguson's Clock,
-- 379; Division of a Square, 382;                                                                231--235; Franklin's (Dr.) Clock, 233;
Watch train to make four beats a second,                                                          Model of the astronomical part of a So
                                                                                                  lar, Lunar, and Sidereal Clock, and
383 ; Curious calculations relative to the                                                        Ferguson's note regarding it, 176--177 ;
Assembly Room at Bath. 384--385;
                                                                                                  Astronomical and Tidal Clock, contrived
Pyramidal Clock Wheelwork Calcula                                                                 by Ferguson for Captain Hutchinson,
tions, 385 -- 386 ; Astronomical Clock
Calculations, 387: Blind Man's Clock                                                              Liverpool, in 1764, 297 -- 300; Astrono
and Wheelwork, 397 --398; Humorous                                                                mical tMock, 348-349; Tidal Clock for

                                                                                                              3Q
                                                                      INDEX.

Loiulon Bridge, by Ferguson, 362 -369;                                                 30; William Raird, Esq., Auchmcdden.
CnAolsottc*rokn,roemg3ai8crd5ai--lng38C6it;l,o3cA8kn0, c--iea3nnSdt1                   32 ; Lord Pit*ligo,              34 ; Rev. Kolxrt
                                                                        Ferguson's     Keith, Edinburgh,                 35 ; Lady Jane
                                                                      ; Pyramidal      Douglas, 36 ; Rev. Alexander Macbean .
                                                                      Clock, 387:
Blind Man's Clock, made by Jacob Lech                                                  IrInverness, 41 ; Professor Colin Maclntir-
in 1525, -- Cox's Perpetual Motion Clock,
                                                                                       in, Edinburgh, 42; Kev. Alexander
404--407; One-wheeled Clock, 412.                                                      vine, Elgin, 44 ; Sir Dudley Ryder, 45 :
                                                                                       Baron Edlin, 46 ; Martin Folks. Esq. .
Colours, on, 249--250.
Comet, Halley's, 230.                                                                  London, 49 ; Right Honourable Sir
Comet's orbit  projection, 386.                                                        Stephen Poyntz, 58 ; Agnes Ferguson ,
Cometarium,    the, 150-- 153.                                                         the daughter of Ferguson, 284 : Rev.
                                                                                       Dr. Thomas Birch, London, 325 ; An
CoSnujun,nc2tiuvle--p2e0r5io;d   of the  Planets with the                              drew Millar, publisher. London, 353 :
                                Earth    and Venus, and                                Mr. James Glashan, 377 ; James Fer
Earth and Mercury, in an orrery. 75,
   76; Hands of a Watch, 39, 205--206;                                                 guson (eldest son of Ferguson), 396 ;
   of the Hands of a Clock, 2311--241, 253                                             Mrs. Ferguson. 402 ; Rev. Rohert
    --254.                                                                             Cooper, 441; Ferguson, 448; Murdoch
Controversy on trajectory of lunar orbit,                                              Ferguson (second son of Ferguson), 468 :
    177--178.                                                                          John Ferguson (third and youngest son
Controversy, The Kennedy, 274 -- 277, and                                              of Ferguson), 469: John Ferguson (his
    415--439.                                                                          eldest brother), 466 ; Janet Ferguson
Common Place Book, MS., 446--448.
Cooper, Richard, Edinburgh (engraver),                                                 (Ferguson's sister),             4"66E:udFoersgiaus,"on35s1.pa
                                                                                       rents, 5 ; Ferguson's
    42, 56.                                                                            Delaval. Edward. F.R.S., 250.

Cooper, Rev. Robert. Glass, 145, 148, 441. Delgctty, 20.                                                                                               ,
Core-of-Maven, Ferguson's Birthplace, 2, Delmeation of the Moon's Real Path.
                                                                                       published, 72.
3, 21, 2S| 45, 67, 482.
Cottage, raising of the roof of Ferguson's
   father's, 5-- 9.                                                                    Denhead, or Achorties, 4.
                                                                                       Dennison's Treatise on Horology, 222.
Cowan, Thomas, bookseller and publisher, Derby. 268.

London, 454--459.                                                                      Derbyshire, 390.                 LeMcta. keNra,t.43.Ph79il..,
Cox, Rohert, Esq., W.S.,                                                                            Artificial Clock
Cox's Perpetual Motion                   Edinburgh, 45.                             j  Derham's        Dr. John,
                                         Clock, London,                                Desagulier,

    1773, 404--407.                                                   and                 fcc., London. 150, 232.
Crane, a new one, 286-- 290.                                                           Description of Orreries, Planetariums,
Crane-Court, Fleet-street, London,
                                                                                          Satellite Machines, Clocks, Machines,
    Royal Society, 49.                                                                    Apparatus, ic. . see such under their re
Crank Orrery, 96, 127--130.                                                                spective headings.
Creation, Ferguson's theory of the, 4S3--                                              Desormeaux, Mr. , his Sale, and Ferguson's

485.                                                                                   Electrical Apparatus, 372.
Critical Review, 276 --277, 415, 416, 417, Devil's Cave, Derbyshire, and Publication.

419.                                                                                      390.
Crucifixion, Darkness at, 213 ; A Lecture                                              Dial, Sun, Gram. Sch. Keith. 17, 59, 243.
                                                                      -- 410.          Dial on a Card, 244--246.
   on Eclipses,  pJuohbnlis, heLdL, .4D0.9,                             Aberdeen,      Dialling Cylinder, 53, 325--330.
Cruickshanks,                                                                          Diameter of the visible part of a cloudy-

   6, 403--404, 466.                                                                      sky, 260.
CullTM, 5, 24.                                                                         Dick. Dr. Thomas, Broughtv Ferry. 268.

Culloden, 40.
Cumberland, Duke of, 48.
Curious Memoranda, 307-- 309.                                                          Dipple,  "LaPdeyr,pe2t0u, u2m8,  29, 30, 31, 37.
Cycle, Metonic, 187.                                                                   Dirck's                          Mobile," 223.
Cycle of the Sun, Moon, and Indiction,                                                 Dispute regarding the Crucifixion date.

    252- 253.                                                                          223.
Cylinder, Universal Dialling, 53, 325--                                                Dissertation on the Harvest Moon, and on
                                                                                          the Moon turning round on its axis, no,

330.                                                                                      51, 59-- published, 110.
                                                                                       Doctor Young, 22.
                   I)                                                                  Dodsley's Annual Register, 357.
                                                                                       Douglas, Lady Jane. 35. 36, 37, 396.

Da Costa, Emanuel, 271.                                                                Douglas, Marchioness of, 35.
Dale Street, Liverpool, and Lectures, 291.                                             Drawing Likenesses, 35, 38- -39, 47, 53,
Daniel's Seventy Weeks, 2(.6--213.
Darkness at the Crucifixion, 213, 409--410.                                               61, 154, 225, 251.
Davidson, Isabel, 7.
Death's of, Rev. Mr. Gilchrist, Keith, 15 ;                                            Drawing Maps, &c. , 17.
                                                                                       Drum, near Keith, 4.
   Mr. John Skinner, teacher, Keith, 17 ;                                              Duff. Annie, 28, 31.
   Thomas Grant, Esq., Achoynaney, 18;                                                 Duff, William, Esq., of Braco. &c., 225.
Sir James Dunbar, 26 ; Lady Dipple,                                                    Dtiffus, Alexander, and Ferguson's letter.

                                                                                       225.
                                                        INDEX.                                                         491

Duguid, Rev. Mr., of Glass, 441.                               Emerson. William, mathematician, kc.                          ,
Duke Street, Bloomsbury, London, Fer
                                                                  51.
   guson's residence in 1757, 216.                             Enamelled Case, Gold Mounted, of Fer-
Dunbar, Sir James, Burn, 26, 27, 29, 31 ;                         son's, in Banff Museum, 476.
                                                               Engravings -- Wood-cuts of -- Ferguson's
    death of, 26.
Dunbar's, Jean, Bible, 21).                                       Birthplace, 2; Grammar School, Keith,
Dunbar, Rev. Sir William, Kew, 26.                                                       ;8
                                                                                                           :

                                                                                                                    ;
                                                               a 1, ;7  Ferguson's father Raising the Roof
                                                               of his Cottage,              Experiments with the
Dura, 24, 26, 27, 28, 30, 81.                                                       Wheel and Axle, 10 Fergu
Durn Hill Quartz Rocks, and ancient en                                Lever,  ; ;9

campment on    4,    27.                                       son taking the relative distances of the
                   it,                                                Stars by means of thread and beads,
                                                                      Ferguson busy in the Barn with his                     ; ; ;14
                     E                                                Star Maps, the master working in his
Earl of Fife. 20, 23, 44.                                             place, 16 House of Achoynaney, 19
Earnshaw, Edward, watchmaker, Stock                                   Fac-simile of Alexander Cantly's pen-
port, 300-302.                                                        printed signature, 20 Action of a
                                                                      Watch Mam-spring illustration, 25
                                                                      Burn House Gateway in 1760. 27 The
                                                                      Honourable the Lady Dipple, 29 Ima
Earth. Land and Water on, 259.                                                              ;
Ebbing and Flowing of the Sea, the cause                                                         ;;
                                                                                                                       ; ;;
of, 334--337.                                                                                            ;
Ebbmg and Flowing Wells, Machine for
   illustrating the cause of, 310-- 312.                                            Ecliptic, 30 burn House,
                                                                      fi7n5a8t,iv3e1 William Baird of Auchmed-
Eclipsareon, a machine for exhibiting the                                     :;
   phenomena of Solar Eclipses, 53, 179--                             den, 33 Merchiston Castle, 1754, 35                    ;

185.                                                                  Mrs. Ferguson's Likeness, 46; Trajee-
                                                                      torium Lunare, 48 Dissected illustra
Eclipses :-- Of the Sun seen at Elgin, 44               ;             tion of Euclid, Prop. XXVII., Book 1st,
   Great Solar Eclipse of 174S, 51, 96;                               60 False Lunar Orbit, 63 Ferguson's
   Projection of ditto, 96 Lectures on,                               Trajectorv of the Moon's Path, 64 Fer2, ; ;
                                   5, ;                               guson's Trajectorium Lunare, Section
123; Occurrence of, 124--126             ;              Calcu         of, 65 Ferguson's Season Illustrator.
lus of the Lunar Eclipse of April, 1753,    A                         68 Ferguson's Orrery, 73 Plan and
176 Great SnlarEclipse of 1764, 285--            a                    Section of the Wheel-work of Ferguson'sp. ;
;                                                                                  ;                  : ;; :
        by ;                                                                                              ;
286, 290 Projection of the great Lunar                                Orrery, 78 Lunar Wheelwork. Figs.

Eclipse of 1776, 399.                                                                 ;

Fx:liptic,     Ferguson, likened to                     road                        80; Henderson's Lunar Wheel-

and its ruts, 31 Motions of the Sun                                   work, 81 Annual train. 83 Hender
                     ;

and Moon in, likened to those of the two                              son's accurate train for the periods of
                                                                      the Earth and Moon. 92 Ferguson's
   hands of watch, 38.a                  34, 38, 41--
Edinburgh, Ferguson in,
    42, 44. 53, 55, 56, 342--343.                                     Three-Wheeled Orrery, 93 The Four-
Edlin, Baron, Edinburgh, 45- 47 death
                                                                      wheeled Orrery, 100 Section of the
                                                                                               :
                                                                                                   ;
                                         ;                            Four-wheeled Orrery, 104 Improved

of, 46.                                                               IllCelestial Glohe, 108 Planetary' Globes.
Editor of this Memoir, his collection of                                      Dial Face of Astronomical Clock.
                                                                        ;

Ferguson relics, 477.                                                 113; Ground Plan and Section of As
Editor of the Monthly Review (for 1775)                               tronomical Clock, 117 Front Frame of
                                                                                               :;
on Ferguson and the Kennedy contro                                      Lunar Clock, 120 Moon's apparent

versy, 481--432.                                                      motion and rotation wheelwork, 122;
Eidouranion, Walker's, 239.                                           View of the Solar Eclipse of 1748, 125
                     Ferguson's, 469-- 471.                           The Crank Orrerv, 128 Calculator,                      ;:
Effects, sale  --of  Lecture on, 53; Medical                          Section of Pullev-work. 131 The Cal;:
Electricity:                                                          culator, 132; The Tide -Dial. 134;   ;
                                   to Ferguson and his
wEliefec,tric3i7ty2,--app3l7ie3d;  Electrical Machine,                Wheelwork, &c., of the Tide-Dial. 136
                                                                      Centrifugal Machine, 138 Mechanical
Ferguson's, 262 Lane's, 371 Electri
cal Orrery. King's, 351-- 353; Electrical
Thunder House, 353 Electrical Wheel-
      ;;                                                              Paradox, 140 Plan of Wheels, Frames,
         4,                                                                              ;
              5, :
                                                                      &c., of Mechanical Paradox, 142 Fer
                            ;                                                                                          ;
                                 ;
                                                                      guson's Simple Lunation Train, 149;
                                    ;
                                                     ;
work Orrery, 371 Electrical Clock,                                    Cometarium, Figs.                     p. 150; Per
371 Ferguson's Electrical Apparatus,
                                                                                               ; 1,   ; 2,
371 part of which was re-sold at Mr.                                  petual Almanack, 155 Ferguson's Sim
                                                                      ple Lunation Work. 157 An Improved
Desormeaux's sale, 372.                                               Hygroscope, 158 Lunar Motion, 158
Electricity An Introduction to, by Fer-
                                                                                            ;                                ;;

son, published, 371.                                                  Ferguson Satellite Machine, Section
Elgin,                                                                of the Wheelwork, 162; Section of ditto;s
               24, 30, 44, 230.
Elgin Museum and Ferguson's Letter,                                   for his new wheels, 165 Dr. Pearson's
                                                                                                      ;
                                                                                                               ;
   225.                                                               Satellite Machine, Section of, 166
KIli.-c.it . John, watchmaker, London. 49--                           Geometrical Cards. 170, 171, 172, 174,
                                                                      175, 361, and Ap1iendix, 485 Eclipsa
   50, 70--71, 219, 221--222 death of, 50.;                           reon, 180 Section of the Wheelwork of
Elohim, Hutchinsonian, 422.                                           Orrery, Plan of Wheelwork of ditto,
Emblin, Miss, Windsor (Ferguson's Eudo-                               188; Henderson's Plan of Wheelwork,

sia), 13, 349; death of, 350.
49 -2                                                     INDEX.

   192 ; Mechanical Paradox Orrery, Figs.                         tion on its axis, 112 ; Distances of the
   1, 2, p. 194 ; Ferguson's Whirling Table,                      Planets from the Sun, 160--161.
   217 ; Plan and Section of the Wheel-                         Female Jockey Club, Publication, 282.
   work of Ferguson's Solar and Sidereal                              Ferguson --As the name Ferguson oc
                                       Clock,                     curs so frequently in the Memoir,
'  Clock,    221 ; Ferguson's Simple   ; Port                     only notable incidents and refer
   282 ;   Ferguson's Pyrometer, 237
   able Card Dial, 245 ; Projection of the                               ences will           b:2e----gi3vBe;onrHnoinm--ethBiEsidrptuhlcapacletai.ocen,,
   Transit of Venus in 1761, 258 ; Section                      Ferguson. James

   of the Wheel work of Ferguson's Planeta                         Core of Mayen,
   rium, 264 ; Ferguson's Crane, 287 ;                            5-- 6 ; Grammar School, Keitb, 7 ; Odd
   Solar Eclipse seen at Liverpool, 1764,
                                                                  accident and taste for Mechanics, 7 ;
   297 ; Dial-Plate of Astronomical Clock,                        The Lever and Wheel and Axle, 9--10 ;

   298 ; Plan of the Astronomical Wheel-                          Shepherd Boy, 11 ;                  sSetarvr-igcea,zing1, 2--   11   :
   work of ditto, 299 ; Earnshaw's Annual                         In James Glashan's                                              18   ;

   Train, 301 ; New Pyrometer, Figs. 1, 2,                        CSatantrleyM, eas1u7r--ing2.0 ;  12--14 ;              Alexander
   p. 303 ; Hydrostatic Machine, or Bel                                                            Wooden                Terrestrial
   lows, 306 ; Ebbing and Flowing Wells
   Illustrator, Figs. 1, 2, p. 311 ; Univer                       Globe,              2"1  ;  Nearly starved in              the  ser
                                                                  vice of                  a                                21 ;  Dis
   sal Dialling Cylinder, 326 ; Illustrations                                                 tipjiling miller"
   of ditto, Figs." 2, 3, 4, p. 328 ; Electrical                  abled in the service of Dr. Young, 22--
   Orrery, 351 ; The Solar Spots, 354, 35S ;
                                                                  23 ; Wooden Clock and Watch, 24--26 ;

   The circle divided circularly into equal                       Cleaning Clocks, and drawing patterns
   areas (Geometrical Card) 361 : Dial-                                                    work for aprons aml gowns,
                                                                  for needle          Limning, 33;      aIdnileEmdminab--ur3g7h;
   face, Wheelwork,                    , of Ferguson's            26-- 29:             Dipple. 34 : In
   Tidal Clock, 363 ; Plan and Section of                         with Lady
                                                                  Limning, 35 ; Commenced iMxtor, .38 ;
   the Astronomical Wheelwork of Fer                              Limning at Inverness, -- Astronomical
   guson's Solar and Lunar Watch, 367;                            Rotula, 38--42; Returned to Edin
   Tide Rotula, 369 : Ferguson's Perpetual                                                                                Maclarin,
   Motion Scheme. 375 ; Height of the                             b44u21r----gh44,32  42; Professor     Colin             made one,
   A pparent Level above the True, 379 ;                                              ; First saw an                     on the Or
   Plan of the Dial Wheels of New Astro                                               ; Delivered a   Orrery,
                                                                                                      lecture

   nomical Clock, 381 ; Division of the                           rery to             the students attending the Pro
                                                                  fessor's            class, 43-- 44 ; Made an Orrery
                                                                  with ivory wheels, 44 ; Leaves Edin
   Square, 382 ; Ferguson's Labyrinth,                            burgh for London, 44--45 ; In London,
   389 ; Simple Mechanical Way for Tri
   secting an Angle, 390 ; Aubort's Merid                         Mathematical School, and the Hon.
   ian Line, 391 ; Ten Squares decreasing                         Stephen Poyntz, 46-- 48 : Trajeetorium
   by unity, 392 ; A Line appearing of the
   same length although viewed from dif                           Lunare and curve of the Moon's Orbit.
   ferent stations, 393 ; The Angle Tri-                          48--49, 57--59 ; New Orrery, 62-- 63,
   sector, 400; Gravity Machine, 4.<>;                            72--91 : The Four-wheeled Orrery. 98--
   The One-wheeled Clock, 412 : The Tulse                         107 ; Becomes a public lecturer on Astro
   Glass, 413; Ferguson's Tomb, Old St.                           nomy, &c. -- Lectures on the Great Solar
   Mary-le-Iione Churchyard, London. 449:
                                                                  Eclipse of               1748, 123--126: Eclipsareon,
                                                                  11H79o----          ;     Orrery with equated motion,
   Ferguson's last Residence, No. 4, Holt                                     184     ;      Astronomy : On Sir Isaac
   Court, Fleet Street, London, 451 ;-- Ap-                                   193
                                                                  Newton's Principles, published, 214 --
   pkndix : --    OXcLuVlaIrI.,DeBmoooknsIt.r,at4io8n0s;          215 ; The Prince of Wales sends for
   Euclid, Prop.                                            of
                                                          Re      Ferguson, 231 : The Ferguson Clock,
   markable Fish caught near Bristol, 482.                        231--235; "Lectures on Select Sub
Kphemeris, Parker's, 50 (Wing's Alma                              jtehectps,r"ofpesusbiolinshoefdL, im24n6e--r2, 42751;
                                                                                                                            Abandons
   nack).                                                                                                                :  Admitted
Equation Clock, bv Ellicott, 219. 222.
Equation Rotula, 440--441.                                        a Fellow of the Royal Society. 274 ;

Equation   Proofp.TimXeL, VTaIIb.l,e,    1, 444--445.             Mysterious               27d9is--ap2p8e5ar;anUcneiveorfsaFel rDguiasollnin'sg
Euclid,                                Hook I., Ocular            daughter,
                                                                  Cylinder, 325 -- 330 ; Young Gentleman
   Illustrations of, 60, 479--480.                                -and Lady's Astronomy, published, 349
Eudosia. See Emblin.                                                 351 : KleeU'd a Member of the Ameri

Eadosia. a Poem on the Universe, 12, 13,                          can Philosophical Society, 376 ; Death

   51, 349, 351.                                                  of Mrs. Ferguson. 402 : Ferguson's
Eulogy, Short, on James Glashan. 14-- 16 ;
   on Lady Jane Douglas, 36 37.                                   household, 444 ; Ferguson's indisposi
                                                                  tion, death, and funeral, 448.
                                                                Ferguson, Mrs., 2, 46; Portrait. 47;
                                                                   "Poor Bell," 225, 372; death and
                                                                  funeral of, 4u2. 462 ; birth. 467.
Fac-simile of Alexander Cantly's Iien-                          Ferguson, Agnes (only daughter) -Birth,
   printed signature, 20.                                         72 ; Disappearance. 279- 282 : Her sub
                                                                  sequent life and sad end, 282- 285,
Falconer. Jonn, 26.
Familiar illustration of the Moon's rota                          452. Note, 468.
                                                  INDKX.                                                      493

Ferguson, James (eldest son) --             Birth, 127   ;  Four wheeled Orrery, 98--107.
   Apprenticed to an Optician,               278 -- 285  ;  Franklin, Benjamin, LL D., 231, 232, 233,

   Death and funeral, 396. Note, 468.                          234; Franklin's Clock, 235.
Ferguson, Murdoch (second son) -- Birth,                    Eraser, Esq., Francis, of Findrach, Aber
177, 285 ; Attending the Medical Class,
College, Edinburgh, 35:1; Practismg as                          deenshire, 28, 32, 33, 34 472.
surgeon at Bury St. Edmunds, 410;                           Fraser, Esq., William, W.S., Edinburgh,

Certificate of qualification as surgeon to                      29, 33.
a Regiment, and his marriage to Miss                        French Astronomer, the, Lalande, 12.
Vincent, 441 ; Shipwrecked, 448--449,                       Fulton, John, shoemaker (aud Orrery ma
452; Surgeon in H.M.S.'s "Thun
                                                               ker), Fenwick, 475.
derer," "Emerald" aud "Africa"
                                                                                          G
463, 469; death, time of uncertain,
                                                            Gallows, Pit and, at Keith, 4.
468; portrait, 473.                third and                Gartness Globular Stones, 28.
                    John          Attends the
Fesrgouns)o--n,  Birth,     (the               youngest     Geddes,     Mr. Rose          (letter  to,  from  Fer
                          327 ;                 Medical        guson),   154 -- 155.

Classes of Marischal College, Aberdeen,                     Geddes, Isabella, Netherhaughs, 47.

   403-- 404 (See 469--471) ; Death and                     Genhs, Madam de, 350.
   funeral, 460.
Ferguson, John (the eldest brother of Fer                   Gentleman's and Lady's Astronomy, 13,
   guson), 4--6 ; His ioformation to Rev.
   Dr. Simmie relative to James, his                        52, 349--354.

   brother, 2: death, &c., 466.                             Gentleman's Magazine, 52, 57, 252, 330.
Ferguson, Margaret, Elspeth, Elizabeth,                     Geographical Grammar, Gordon's, 20, 23.
                                                            Geographical Grammar. Guthrie's 383.
   and Janet, sisters of Ferguson, 21, 452,
   466, iic.                                                Geometrical Cards, 60, 169--175, 361,
Ferguson, John (the father of Ferguson), 3,
   4, 6, 10, 20, 22, 26. 37 ; Death of, Jic. , 5.           Ge4o8rg5e--4I8II6.., 13 ; as a turner, 354.
Ferguson, Jtan Ferguisone, 7.
Ferguson's Head, the, name given to a                       George, Doctor, Keith, 7, 72, 246, 466,
   London inn after Ferguson's death, 45.
Ferguson and Dr. Samuel Johnson, 356                           &c.
                                                            Gilchrist, Rev. John, Keith, 4 ; death of,

357.                                                            15--17.
Ferguson presents copies of his works to                    Glasgow Mechanics' Magazine, and Ei-

                                                               douranion, 239.
                                                            Glashan, James, 12--16 ; death of, 377.

   Bristol       Li"brBaeryad, s,4"092.95.                  Glass, Pulse, 413--414.
Ferguson's         Relics, 472-- 478.
Ferguson's                                                  Glennie House, 7.

                                                            Globe, a wooden one, made by Ferguson,

Ferguson's Sanctum Sanctorum, 52.                              21.
Fiddler, Mr., Orrery Maker, &e. , London,                   Globes, terms for teaching the use of,

   475.                                                     251.
Fife, Earl of, 4, 20, 23, &c.
Finch, Lady Isobela-- Letter from her to                    Globular Stones at Durn, 27--28 ; at

    Ferguson, 270.                                              Gartness, 28.
Findlater, Earl of, 29.                                     God Almighty's Scholar, 19, 435.
Fish, Remarkable, 278, 4S0-- 482.                           Golden Lion Inn, Dale Street, Liverpool,
Flax-dressing in Keith, 4.
                                                               and Ferguson's Lectures, 291.
Floors, 24.                                                 Gordon's Geographical Grammar, 20, 28.
                                                            Gordon, Mrs., Edinburgh, 47.
Flowing and Ebbing Wells, apparatus to                      Gordon, James, Esq., ditto, 47, 472.
   illustrate, 310--812.                                    Gordon, Alexander, Letterfenny, 29.

Fochabers, 5.                                               Gordon, Rev. Dr. F. S., of             Glasgow,      and
Folks, Esq., Martin, London. 48-- 49,70--                      the Ferguson Prize at               Keith,     473--

   71-- Letter from him in Ferguson's fa                    479.

vour, 167 ; death, 49.                                      Gordon (Hand Mill)_224-- 227.                     Bir
                                                            Gorill, Benjamin, Orrery Maker,
Foolosopher, 230.
Forbes, Lord Pitsligo, 34.                                      mingham, 475.
Forbes, Principal 1). C. L., &c., St. An                    Gown and Apron Patterns drawn by Fer

   drews, 156.                                                 guson, 29.                                London,
Ford, Dr. John, Bristol, his solution of the                Graham, George, Watchmaker,
conjunctive periods of the planets, 202
                                                            176.
                                                            Grammar School, Keith, 4, 7, 17, &c.
--205.

Fordyce, 27.                                                Gr'a'nGdrteuallty,DouSgilras  John Stuart,   of,  and
                                                                                            cause," 36.
Forgieside, 4.
Forrester, David, teacher                   (and  Orrery    Grange, 4, 24. 27, 38, 47, tic.
                                                            Grant, Thomas, Esq., Achoynaney, 18, 20,
   maker), Kirkcaldy, 475.
Force and Velocity of the Wind, 331.
                                                               23; death of, 15.
Four Weights to weigh any number of                         Grant, Elspet, of Grange ^Mrs. Ferguson's
   pounds from 1 to 40 lbs., 308--309.
                                                               mother), 47, 177 ; death of, 4o2aud 467.
4!>4                                                      INDEX.

Gravest Mies, 6.                                                 Hydraulics, Hydrostatics, &c., 53.
Gravity, centre of, between Earth and                            Hydrostatic Bellows, 305-- 3u7.
                                                                 Hygrometer, a new one, 312.
Mood, 336--337.
           Machine for                                           Hygroseope, 158--159, 312.
Gravity,   auy place of   determining                4f1o0rc--e
   of, at                 the Earth,

412.                                                                                               I

Great Pulteney Street, Ferguson's resi                           Idea of the Material Universe, 16, 185.
dence in 174t>,139.                                              Illustration, familiar, of the action of a

Great Solar Eclipse of 1748, 123--126;

of 1764, 285 --286.                                                 Watch mainspring, 24.
Great South Sea. and Kennedy's Meridian,                         Imaginary Sale of busts, 357-- 358.
                                                                 Improved Celestial Globe, 107--110.
421.                                                             Inhnnity of Ferguson, 440.

Greenslades, 4.                                                  Innes. Cosmo, Esq., Professor of Hist Col.,
Greyfriars, Old, Churchyard, Edinburgh,                             Edinburgh, 472.
   John Ferguson interred in. 470.
Grove, Mrs., Kichmoud. near London, 126                          Inscription on Ferguson's tomb, 450.
                                                                 Instrument, New Astronomical, 223.
   -- 127, 159--160.
Guthrie's Geographical Grammar, 383.                             IInnvt4re2ond;tuioAcnsttisoronnooftmoFiEcelaregl cutsroiCcniatyr:d,--pDuRbialoislt,uhlea5d,5. --335876--1.;

                      II                                          Orrery with ivory wheels, 44 ; Large

Hackney, London. 50.                                              wooden    Orrery,             626--3--6-637, 7;2,Se9a1so; nTrIalljuesc-
Halleys Comet of 1758, 230.                                       torium   6L8u--na7r0e.;       Three-wheeled Orrery,
Hampton Court Clock, 369.                                         trator,

Hand-mill for Grinding Corn, Model, 224.                          9S-- 107; Four-wheeled Orrery, 98--
                                                                  107; Improved Celestial Globe, 107--
227 --229.                                                        110 ;   Planetary Globes Instrument, 110
Hands of a Clock, on the conjunctions of,                         -- 112  ; Astronomical Clock for showing

239--241.                                                         Sthtaers.m1o1ti3o--ns            the Sun, Moon, ana
Hands of a Watch, motions of, likened to                                                           Simple Lunar Motion,
   those of the Sun and Moon in the Ec                                                      of  ;
   liptic, 38; conjunctions of, 39, 205--                                                120
                                                                  120 -122 ; The Crank Orrery. 127--130 ;
                                                                  The Calculator. 130-- 1.18 ; Tide Dial,
   2o6.    " Lexicon                                              134--137 ; Centrifugal Machine, 137--
Harris's              Technicum," 32, 60,                         139 ; The Mechanical Paradox, 139--

    164, &c.                                                      145 ;  Perpetual Pocket              Almanack, 154--
Harrison, John (inventor of the Marine                            156;   Lunar Motion,                156-- 157; Hygro

   Chronometer. 24), 225.                                         seope, 15s-- 159 ; Satellite Machine (im
Harrowby, Right Hon. the Earl of, 44, 62,                         proved), 161-- 166; Lunarium, 168;

   473.                           Liverpool,                      Eclipsareon,           e1q7u9a--ted184mo; tiLoanr,ge185w--oo1d9e3n;
Hartnnp, Mr., Observatorv,                                        Orrery, with

   292.                                              50-- 51,     Mechanical Paradox Orrery, 193--200 ;
Harvest Moon, and Dissertation,                                   Whirling Table, 217-- 219 ; Astronomi
110, kc.                                                          cal Clock, 219-- 220 ; New Astronomical
Hauksbee, Mr. Francis, 273.
Hawys, Mr. Thomas. London, 45, 341 ;                              iInngstrCuomrne, n2t,242--2322; 9H;anFedr-gmusilol n'fsor  grind
Letter from Ferguson to, 355--356.                                                                                           Clock.
Hebrew words, explained, 418, 423, 430.                           231--235; Pyrometer, 237-- 238; A
Henderson's Wheelwork for Sidereal Mo                             New Crane, 286--290 ; Tidal Clock for
                                                                  Captain Hutchinson, Liverpool, 297--
tions, 221 -222.                                                  301 ; New Pyrometer, 303 --305; Hy

Henderson's Treatise on Horology, 398.                            drostatic Machine, or Bellowg, 305--
Herschel, Sir John. 43. 164.                                              Etbo3b1i2inllgu; sNtarenawdte,BFrlao3sw1s0in--gO3r1rWe2re:yll,Hs,3y2gM0r--ao
Hinton's Universal Magazine, 178, 229,                            ?07 ;

390, &c.                                                          chine
Hodgson, James, teacher, Christ's Hos                             meter,

   pital   School,   NeowfgaFeterg, usLoonn,don5,--  51.          322 ; Universal Dialling Cylinder, 325
Home      Education                                  6.           --3:50 ; Tidal Clock for London Bridge,
Horn, James, of Kattanach, 3.                                     -362--369 ; Solar and Lunar Watch, 366
Horn, John, of Tillydoun, 3-- 7.                                     369; Tide Rotula. 369--371 ; Bridge
Houlston, Dr., Liverpool, 354, 462.                               Building without                                  by Fer
                                                                  guson, 373-- 374                    Scaffolding,   Motion
Household, Ferguson s, 444.                                                                        ;     Perpetual
Humorous Calculation by Ferguson, illus
                                                                  Scheme, 374 --376; Astronomical Clock,
   trative of Kennedy's calculations, 422.                        380--381 ; Maze or Labyrinth. 388--
Humphrey, Alexander. Pitlurg, 466.                                390 ; The Arithmetical triangle, 399 ;

Humphrey, William, Esq.. Aberdeen, 32,                            Aualemma and Quadrants, 414--415;
   kc.                                                                          Rotula,
Huntlv, 4, 5, 24.                                                    Equation  Ferguson            4a4t0----L4i4m1.ning -- Astro
Hutchinson, Captain, 292--293, 297.                              Inverness,
                                                                  nomical Rotula -- Nodal Calculations,
Hutton, Dr. Charles, 359--362.
                                                                  &c., 5, 28.
                                      INDEX.                                                                                                                   495

Irvine, Ilev. Alexander, of Elgin, 58, 224                                                              1770, 359--362 :-- In Norwich, in 1753,

--225, 230 ; Death of, 236.                                                                             178--179.

Isla, The, 12, 22.                                                                                      Lectures on Select Subjects in Mechan
                                                                                                        ics, &c.,       published,
                    J                                                                                   ment to,        published,  234461----243742.;      Supple

Jackson, Randal, Clock and Orrery Ma                                                                    Lectures, Analysis of, published, 278, 355 ;
                                                                                                        Syllabus of, published, 355.
   ker, 475.                                                                                            Legends of Strath isla, 4.
Jameson, George,    " The Scotch  Vandyke,"                                                             Lcith, 34 45, 57.

    34.                                                                                                 Length of the Year, various lengths given
Janviers, Antide, the French Orrery ma
                                                                                                        LeiRtntoesFrese,rg:--uEssLoqen.'t,steorAfsfrtorGomendodmFeeysr,,gusdo4an3te9d. to"HMuagrh
   ker, 190, 475.
Jeffreys. Mr., London, 449.
Johnson, Dr. Samuel, and Ferguson, on a
   Manumotive Machine, 356 -- 357.                                                                      garet Street, Cavendish Square, Lon
                                                                                                        don, June 1st, 1751," 154-- 155;
Johnston, Elizabeth, 3.                                                                                 Rev. Dr. Birch, London, dated,                         "to    the
                                                                                                                                                                    Lon
Jupiter, period of, in Planetarium, 265.                                                                                     Dec., 1752," 67; Ditto,
Jupiter's Satellites, and the Velocity of                                                               don,     1"2tFheb.                                  ; to Mr.
                                                                                                        dated                2L0otnhd, on1, 757d,a"te2d16"  London,
   Light, 25a.
                                                                                                        R. Baldwin.                                   "RFevro. mAlethxe

                    K August, 1757," 223 ;                                                                                            to the
                                                            ander Irvine, Elgin,                                                      dated
                                                                                                        Club, opposite Cecil Street, in the
                                                                                                        "S- tr2a3n0d, ,            Jan.
                                                                                                                                   446 ;
                                                                                                        Birch,
Keith :--2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 14, 16, 18,                                                                         London,       dated    17th, 1758," 225
   24, 27, 32, 38, 225, &c.                                                                                      also vide
                                                                                                                 London,                  "toBrthisetolR,evM. arDcrh.
Keith, Rev. Robert, Edinburgh, 33, 35--                                                                        M1a7y63.5"th,2731;76D3,i"tto4, 8d1at--ed
                                                                                                        26th,                                                   Bris
   36, &c.                                                                                              tol,                                                482; to
Keithmore, 19,
Kennedy, Rev. John (Bradlev, Derby                                                                      the Rev. John Kennedy, Bradley, from
                                                                                                        Critical Review,         vide 274-- 277
shire), 1, 274--277, 415--439'; death of,                                                               Rev. Dr. Birch,          London, dated              ;  "toMtohre

439.                                                                                                 1  timer Street,                    Fdeabt.ed16th",
Kent's London Directory, 123, 139, 185.                                                                 290 -- 291 ;         London,                           1764,"
                                                                                                                              Ditto,                           Liver
216, be.
Kew, near London, 26, 353--354, 4S6.                                                                    pool. April 2d,
Kilmodden, 42.                                                                                          Thomas Hawys,            1764,"   29d2a--te2d96";              to
                                                                                                                                 London,                            Bolt
KKiinlrgavoGceko,rgeMrI.II.R,os1e3--of1, 41. 55.
                                                                                                        Court, Fleet Street, London, March
King s Electrical Orrery, 351--353.                                                                                                                    Cox's Per
                                                                                                        27th,    1769,"      3C5lo5c--k,35d6ate; dOn"  BoltCourt.
                                                                                                        petual   Motion

King-Road, near Bristol, 278, 481--482,                                                                 Fleet Street, London, Jan. 28th, 1774,"
Knight, Gowin, 274.                                                                                             t(osupMpro.sedTh),omdaastedCa"deBlrli,sthoils,
                                                                                                        407 ;                                                       pub
                  L                                                                                     lisher                                                      May
                                                                                                        21st, 1774," 408 ; to the Rev. John
                                                                                                        Kennedy, Bradley Letter 1st, 417--
Labyrinth, or Maze, 388--389.                                                                                  L;etdtaetred2d,"  419--431 : Letter             3d, 432
Lady Isabella Finch, her note to Ferguson,                                                              419 ;                    Bolt Court, Fleet             Street,
                                                                                                        --437
    270.                                                                                                London, July 19, 1775." MS. , unpub
                                                                                                        lished letterto Rev. Mr. Kennedy, which
Laing, David, Esq., LL.D., Edinburgh,                                                                                            Letter   4th to Kennedy,
                                                                                                                                   Aug.   16th, 1775," 442
   34, 42.                                                                                              dmaatyedbe"     named
Lalande, the French Astronomer, 12.                                                                                     London,
Lamb Inn, Stall Street, Bath, and Lec
                                                                                                        443 ;    to"    the  Rev. Mr. Cooper, Glass,
   tures, 272, 338--341.                                                                                dated           No.  4, in Bolt Court, Fleet

Lanbryde, near Elgin, 44.                                                                               Street,  DLitotnod,odni,ttoS,epdta.te1d2th",  1775," 441--
Land and Water on the Earth, 259.                                                                       442 ;                                         No 4, in Bolt
LLaenatadei,ennJho"ahlalnn,dSht"riseGetEl,olebcLutolranircdaoSlnto,Mn"eaPc"hililonaf,er,2F83o.7u1n.     Court, Fleet Street, London. April 10th,

                                                                                                        1776," 145--148 ; Notes : --Note relative
                                                                                                        to the Astronomical part of a Clock
       Mr., Bath. 339--340.                                                                             which Ferguson had sold to Mr. George
Leak,  Jacob, maker of the   " Blind  Man's                                                                                                 London, dated
Lech,                                                                                                   G" raBhoalmt ,      Watchmaker,   Street, London,
Clock," 396--399.                                                                                                       Court. Fleet
Lectures in London, from 1748 until 1775 :
  --In Bath, in 1763, 272 ; in 1767, 338--                                                              Dec. 27th, 1775," 176; Note from Fer
   341 ; in 1774, 407--409 :-- In Bristol, in                                                           guson, to Mr. R. Baldwin, dated
1748, 124 ; in 1763, 272 ; in 1767, 338                                                                 "Chelmsford, March 8th, 1761," 255;
                                                                                                                        FerguBon, on Blakey's Engine,
--341   ;  i1n76117,7245, 540:--7--In409De:r--byInanCdheMlmisd                                          Note,    b"y    Nov. 16th, 1768," 333 ; Note
ford,  in                                                                                               dated
                                                                                                        by Ferguson on a Solar and Lunar Watch,
land Counties, in 1762, 268--269, 310,                                                                  369 : Note by Ferguson as to bis being an
390 :-- In Liverpool, in 1764, 291--296,
                                                                                                        amateur medical electrician, 372; Note
341-- 342:-- In Neweastle-on-Tyne, in by Ferguson on adding the motiou of the
496 INDEX.

Moon to an Astronomical clock, 380 :                                                                                             Lobban, Elspet (Ferguson's Mother), 2, 3,
                                                                                                                                    6, 177, 466.
Note by Ferguson on an old Clock pre
sented to him by a nobleman, 330 ; Nolo                                                                                          Lobban, James, 3, 7 ; John, 6.
by Ferguson on an ''ancient clock" he                                                                                            Lofl't, Capel, Esq., 12, 13, 38, 51, 462, 463.
                                         Mr. Mudge,                  dated                                                       London, Residences of Ferguson in, 123,
had received from                         1776," 386               -- 387 :
"London, Jan. 1st,                                                                                                                   139. 154, 185, 216, 251--252, 271, 334 ;
                                       nn Piaidille's Perpetual                                                                     vide also "Residences of Ferguson in
Note by  Fdeartgeudso"n               London, March 9th and                                                                         London."
Motion,
                                                                                                                                 London Mechanics' Magazine, 406.
16th, 1772," 388; Note by Ferguson on                                                                                            Long Angler, of Pennant, 278, 4ft2.
his new method for building bridges. 373 ;                                                                                       Lorimer, James, yr., 3.
Note by Ferguson on his infirm state of                                                                                          Ludlam, Rev. Professor, Cambridge.
health, and his book on Perspective, 440 ;
Note from Martin Folks, Esq., to Rev.                                                                                                201.
Dr. Birch, in        favour
"Feb. 20th,           1752,"             of Ferguson,              dated                                                                               M
                                           167 ; Note               from
L"aBdeyrkIeslaeybellSaquFainrec,h
                                         to Ferguson,               dated                                                        Macbean, Rev. Alexander, Inverness,
                                         Nov. 27th,                1762,"
270 ; In Manoriam note, by Ferguson,
                                                                                                                                 41.

   246.              " A Lover of        Astronomy," to                                                                          Macclesfield. Earl of, 168, 215.
Letter from                                                                                                                      M'Culloch, Kenneth (Ferguson'sassistant),

the    R"eAv.    John Kennedy, 438--439 ;                                                                                           52. 232, 322.
from           Scrupulous Calculator," to the                                                                                    Machines :-- Centrifugal, 137--139; Sat
                                                                                                                                 ellite, 161-- 166 ;
Rev. John Kennedy, 438.                                                                                                          372; Hydrostatic.     Electrical.                  262. 371--
LeottferFse:r--guOsobnitu--arvfromLet"teTrhse                                                                                                          305--307 :                   Hvdraulic,
                                               and                 Notices                                                       310--312 ; Grand, 341; For finding the
                                                 New                 Morn
tli"neeCygea'srl,eP"dAo"osntnnN,i"ueaawn"l GDReMaenigeelyirrscatAueldrryv,"A,e"dratvuise"dertTrti,hhs"eeer","G"DaGozaedennstd--  weight of a body in any latitude, 410 --
                                                                                                                                                        Trajectorium Lunare,
                                                                                                                                 46132--;   vide also  Calculator, 130 -- 134;
                                                                                                                                           67, ke. :
                                                                                                                                 Mechanical Paradox, 139--141 ; Tide-
tlemau's Magazme," vide Appendix,                                                                                                Dial, 134--137 ; Whirling Table, 217
                                                                                                                                 -- 218;
459; from a Posthumous Detractor of                                                                                              -- 347.   VApidpearaalstous", tM'kairckhsi,n"e"ryt,/r&rcc.ri,e3g4,4"
                                      MhaisgazDineefen"d--ersviz.
Ferguson and                                                       in    the                                                     kc. . in the Index.
                                                                   ,   from
D""GeSterimanctptleolermxa"n"a'snWd.     L.," and Defenders
                                      "  A Plain Honest Man,"                                                                    Mackenzie, 246, 449.
                                                                                                                                 Mackie. Rev. James, LL.D. , Alves, near
                                         "W. S." in the                                                                          Elgin, 466.
4"5M9--ir4ro61r," ;  also vide           Houlston, Capel                                                                         Mackie, Thomas, 449. 466.
                     4(i2 ; Dr.                                                                                                  Maclaurin, Professor Colin, Edinburgh,
Loft't, Esq., and Sir David Brewster, on

Ferguson, 462--463.                                                                                                              40--41.

Letters in the Alphabet, combination of,                                                                                         Mainspring of a Watch, illustration of its

   307--308.                                                                                                                     action, 24.
Lever, Prop, Wheel, and Axle, &c., 7-- 9.                                                                                        Manse of Keith, 4, &c.
Lexicon Technicum, Harris's, 32, 60, 164,                                                                                                                               -- Vide     the Index
                                                                                                                                                                       224, 235        236, 446
&c.                                                                                                                              -Mafnoursc"ripLtest, terFse;rg'Tusaolsno's
                                                                                                                                 -- 447, 477 ; for Relics of Ferguson in
Library of Entertaiuing Knowledge, 12,                                                                                           the Editor's possession, 193, 200, 244,
Hi, 17, 24, 25, 35.

Light before the Creation of the Sun, 286.                                                                                          246. 474.
                                                                                                                                 Marble, Portsoy, 27.
484.                                                                                                                             Margaret Street. Cavendish                         Fer
Light, Velocity of, 259.
Likeness in oil of Ferguson, 215. 464; of                                                                                                                              Square,
                                                                                                                                    guson's residence in 1751, 154.
Lady Dipple, 2!i ;                       foarndot4h7e2r --lik4e7n3e.sses,                                                        Marks of respect shown to Ferguson, 54.
see pages 464-- 465,
                                                                                                                                 Marnoch, 5.

Limning, commenced the profession of, in                                                                                         Marriage, Ferguson's, 38. 47, 81.
1733. 33; abandoned it m 1760, 251.                                                                                              Martin, Benjamin, London, 81, 295, 858,
Line,  Mineri"diEaund.osAiau,berat'sp,oe3m91--on39t2h.e
Lines                                                                  Uni                                                           475.
                                                                                                                                 Mary-le -Bone, St. , Old Church Yard, Lou
         Ornefearrning"
verse,"                                  to Ferguson,   12--13.                                                                  don, 448--449.
258 ;                                     Imaginary    Sale of                                                                   Mars, the planet, its period, and WTitel-
Busts" (Ferguson and Martin), 357--                                                                                                 work in an Orrery, 265.
358 ; On Claudius Lines on Arehi-                                                                                                Maven, Core of, Ferguson's birthplace, 2,
                                                                                                                                 3",                   28, kc.
   medes's Sphere. 320--321 ; On the                                                                                                 4,
                                                                                                                                 Mayer, Tobias, 276, 418, 434, 439.5.
  Great Silk Mill at Derby, 268--269.                                                                                                        7. 6,
List of Ferguson's apparatus in 1743, 57 ;                                                                                                         7.
                                                                                                                                 MMeazceh,anoicrs,Lab" yLreincttuhr,e  388--389.    Subjects"
   in 1751, 154, &c. ; in 1758, 226; in                                                                                                                                  on Select
                                                                                                                                 in, published, 246--247.
   1767, 344--348.                                                                                                               Mechanics, Taste for, and "Odd Acci
Liverpool, Lectures, kc., 292--296, 341--                                                                                        dent,"

342.
                                                  INDEX.  497

Mechanical Exercises, Select, pub., 402-                    from the Synodic Period, 366 ; Centre
                                                            of Gravity between the Earth and Moon,
403.                                                        334--337; The Harvest Moon, 110,
                                                            191; Moon's Path, 48--40, 65-- 67;
Mechanical Paradox, 139-- 148.                               Eclipses of the Moon, 176, 399.
                                                         Moore, Mr., London, 255.
Mechanical Paradox Orrery, 193-- 201,                    Mortimer Street, Ferguson's residence in
                                                             1763--1766, 271--274.
243, 302, 474--475.                                      Mortlach, 24.
Medical Electricity beneficially applied to              Morton, Dr., 255, 274.
Mr. and Mrs. Ferguson. 372.                              Morton, Charles, 274.
Memoir,     Autobiographical                             Mosaic Account of the Creation, and the
   1-- 54.                    (Ferguson's),                 Newtonian Philosophy. 483 -- 4S4.
                                                         Motion, Perpetual, by Plaidalli. 387-- 388.
Memorial Pillar, or Obelisk, for Ferguson,               Motion, Perpetual, by Ferguson, 374 --
                                                             376.
4S2--483.                                                Moxon's Tutor's Guide to Astronomy, 20.
                                                         Mudge, Thomas, Watchmaker, London,
Merchiston Castle, 35.                                       148, 342, 350, 381 ; Presents an ancient
                                                             astronomical clock to Ferguson, 386.
Memoriam, In, 246.                                       Multtim-in-Parvo, 259--262.
Mercurv, the planet, its motions in an Or                Munckley. Nic., 274.
rInedrye,x'75f,or7","                   ankdc.,"         Munimenta, Antique, 39.
                       88--89, 90--91,            vide   Murdoch, Mr., 177.
rcrus."                CnIcut'ttions"              (fr-  Murray, Mungo, and Armillary Trigo-
                                                             nomcter, 248.
Meridian Line (Aubert's). 301--392.                      Murray, Isabel, 47.
Merson, Rev. Peter, Elgin, 20, 2S, 44.                   Museum. British, 72; Banff, 476--477.
                                                             &c. ; Elgin 225.
Metonic Cycle. 189.                                      Mysterious disappearance of Ferguson's
Middleton, Alexander (Ferguson's first                       daughter, and her sad end, 279 - 285.

    master), 11.                                                                 N
Millar, Andrew, publisher, London, 214,
                                                         Nairn, 44.
   353.                                                  Nairne, Edward, Optician, London, 188,
Miller, a tippling. 21--22.
                                                             216--217, 262, 278, 355, 350, 373, 440,
Mill, Barker's, 154; Water Mill, 154;                        468.
   Hand Mill for Grinding Corn, 224.
                                                         -Name and Number of the Beast, 206, 241
Mills :--Mill-o-the-Wood ; The Old Mill ;                        242.
   Tarnaeh Mill ; Earl's Mill ; New Mills;               Napier, Lord, Logarithms, and Merchiston
   aml Nether Mills. 22.
Mills. Models of, 11.                                        Castle, or House, 36.
Millington, Professor, 45, 474.                          National Debt, curious calculations rela
Mirror, the London, article on Ferguson.
                                                             tive to the, 401--402.
    482.                                                 Neal, John, Orrery Maker, London, 475.
Mirror. Villatie's Burning, 310-- 320.                   Neweastle-on-Tyne, Lectures at --Dr. Hut-
Model of a Water Mill. 151 ; Of Barker's
                                                             ton, Division of a Circle, 359--362.
   Mill. 154 ; Of the Solar and Lunar part               Newcome, P., 274.
   of a Clock, 170-- 177 ; Of a Hand Mill                New Astronomical Instrument. 223.
   for Grinding Corn, 221-220 ; Of Sun-                   New Crane, 286--290.
Dials, 243; Of Blakey's Engine, 333; Of                   New Hygrometer, 312.
                                                          Newmills, 22.
Ferguson's tomb, 450.                                    New Orrery, use of, 51, 06-- 97.
                                                          New Orrery, 320-322.
Moir. Rev. Robert, Rothiemay, 3, 6, 28,                   New Pyrometer, 303.
                                                          New Terms for Reading Lectures, 376 --
    477.
Moir, Misses Christian, Charlotte and Sa                     377.
                                                          NeAwpsppaepnedr ix,Ob4i5t9u--ar4y62N.otices of Ferguson,
rah. Windmill Street, Edinburgh, 460.                    Newton, Sir Isaac, 42. 214, 422, 484.
                                                         Nicol's Life of Bower, 279, 448, 469, kc.
Monro, Professor, Edinburgh, 37.                          Nobleman, a, presents an ancient astro
Montague, Wortley, 255.
Monthly Review of 1775 on Ferguson,                          nomical clock to Ferguson, 385.
                                                         Nodes and Wheelwork, 85--86, 101, 101,
431--432.
                                                             196, 385.
Moon, the :-- Its Synodic Revolution pro                  Northcote's, James, Likeness of Ferguson,
duced by Wheelwork in Orreries, 43,
                                                             kc., 445--446.
62, 73, 75, 76, 70. 81, 00--02, 105--106,
                                                                         3R
115, 118, 129--130. 149, 157--158, 186,

189--190, 386, 397, 434--435 ; its ap
parent daily Motion in a Clock by

Wheelwork." 115, 119--122, 299, 363--
363, 381 ; Nodes shown in an Orrery bv
Wheelwork, 85-^6, 101, 191, 106, 385;
Apogee shown in an Orrery by Wheel-
work, 131 --132, 106 ; Its Svnodic lie vol.
Wheelwork, by Mudge, 342--343 ; As
shown in the Mechanical Paradox, 141,
195--200; Its Synodic Rcvol., by Ken
nedy, Meyer, and Pound, 275--276 ; Its
Synodic Period deduced from             its revolu
tions between two eclipses,             315 -- 316 ;

Its Apparent Daily Motion deduced
                                              INDKX.

Norwich, Lectures ami Publication, 186.                      Partington, Charles. Esq., 238, 279, 408,
Notes, from 1 to 360 :-- by Ferguson, 176.                      448, 486.
246, :&o, :i73, 385, 38d-- 3S7, 388, 440 ;
s"eeBioalgsorapthheicaIlndNeoxtefso,r"  "Calculations,''     Paschal Lamb, the, 213.
                                        and "Letters."
Number and Name of the Beast, 206, 241                       Passage of Ferguson and his wife from
                                                                Leith to London. 57.
--242.
                                                             Paasemant, M. . of France, Orrery Calcu
Number of teeth in Wheels in Astronomi                          lator and Maker, 81.
   cal Clocks, Orreries, Planetari urns, Sat
ellite Machines, &c. ; see the Index for                     Passover Full Moon, 211-212.
                                                             Path of the Moon, &c., 47, 63, 70.
these Machines.                                              Pearson, Rev. Dr. William, 81. 166, 190,

                                                                475. fcc.

                                                             Peasant-Boy Philosopher, The. 483.
                                                             Pecket, Mr., 398.
                     i1                                      Pendulum lengths, On. 302.

Obituarv Notices; see Ikaths tin the In                      Pennan, Atardeenshire, 32.
    dex).                                                    Pension. Royal, to Ferguson, 53 -- 54. 258
I >dd Accident, and Taste for Mechanics,                        --259, 263.
nil Painting of Lady Dipple, 29.              7.             Period of the Nodes, and Apogee of the

Old St. Mary-le-Bonc Churchyard, Lon                            Moon's Orbit, 85--86. 1(>1. 131-132.
don, and Ferguson's Tomb, 448 -449.
old Woman and Scotch Catechism, 6,                             1"9O1,rre1r9ie6s, "38a5n.d "ViMdoeona.l"so Index for
Olympiad, 202, 212.
One-wheeled Clock, 412.                                      Period of the Moon's Nodes, and Wheel-
Opinion of Kennedy (private), 422.                              work, vide the words Miyon and Onrrir.i
                                                                in the Index.

Ord, Church, and Durn globular stones, 2s.                   Perpetual  Lever, 10.  154-- 156.
Order of Ferguson's Funeral, 44ti.                           Perpetual  Almanack.
Orreries :-- First Orrery made by Fergu                      Perpetual Motion Clock, by Cox, 404--40".
                                                          ; Perpetual Motion Scheme, by Ferguson.
   son, 42 : Made one with Ivory Wheels.                     375--376.
-44 ; The Ferguson's-Head Orrery, 45;
                                                          ;  Perpetual Motion Scheme, hv Plaidalli,
Large Orrery, 62-- 63, 72-- t>1; The                      I
                                                             387--388.
Three-wheeled Orrery, 93 -96: The                         i  Perpctuum Mobile,    by Diroks, 407.
                                                             Personal Appearance     of Ferguson,  463 --
Pour-wheeled Orrery, 98 107 ; The
( 'rank <>rrerv, 127-- 130 ; Large Wooden                       464.
-Orrery, with Equated Motion, 185 --
                                                            Per-s|i4e1c0ti.ve, the Art of Drawing in, 1. 439
193 ; Mechanical Paradox Orrery, 193-                     <Phenomena of Venus in an Orrery, 97-- 9S.
2dl , 243 ; New Orrery, 320 32l"; Grand
Orrery, 321-322; Orrery, Electrical,                        Phenomena, the Harvest Moon, 10.
351 - - 353 ; Orreries by Ferguson, extant,               I Philosophical Prepositions, Ferguson's.
473- 475 ; Orrery Makers, 475 ; Or
reries in Edmburgh and London Tni-                              262.
versitics by Ferguson, 42 -44 ; Orrery.                                  and ancient Eclipse, 213.
Venus's Path in an, 97 ; Satellite Ma                       Phlegon,    Surgery, and Anatomy, studied
                                                          j Physic.
                                                                by Ferguson, 37.
   chines. 161-166; Planetarium,          263 -           1 Pichard, Mary L., 11.
                                          Rath,           ' Pictures in Durn House. 31.
   268.
Oxford's, Mr., Great Auction Room,                          Pipes, on the weight of Water in, fcc. , 313.
                                                            Pirn Wheels, fcc., 10.
   and Ferguson's Lectures, 407.

                                                             Pit and (fallows at Keith, 4.
                                                             Pitch Line of Wheelwork, 324--325.
Page, George, and model of Ferguson's                        Pitlurg. 466.
tomb, 450.                                                   Pitsligo, Lord ; of Pitsligo, Aberdeenshire,

Painting 'in Oil of Lady Dipple. 29 ; of                      -34.
               215,
    Ferguson,  vide  4"64I'.ublicatimt,"  in  the            Planetarium, 263 268.
Pamphlets,                                                   Planetary Conjunctions, calculations re
Index.
Paradox, the Mechanical, 302.                                   lative to. 201--205.
Paradox, Orrery, the Mechanical, 193--                       Planetary distances, familiar idea of, 16<1

201, 243 302, 439, 440, 474-- 475.                               --161.
Parallax of Venus, 252.                                      Planetary Globes, described, 110--112.
Parallelism of Earth's Axis, Wheels for                      Planetary Revolutions, 1ieriods of, 263 --

producing, &c. 43, 73, 84, 90--91, 102,                          268.

Pa1re3n0,ts1,85F,er1g9u1s.on's, 2 -5, 5, 21 , 37. 56,        Planisphere, 13.
465-- 466, &c.                                               Platonic liodies, on the, 269-- 270.
Parish register of Keith, 47.                                Pneumatics, 53.
Parish Register of Grange. 47.                               Poor Bell, 225.
                                                             Porteous Mob, 38.
                                                             Portraits of Mrs. Ferguson. 47 ; of Fer

                                                                guson in Chalk, 13; of Squire Baird,
                                        INDEX.                                                                                                           499

33 ; other Portraits by Ferguson, vide                                                                  The following are to bo found in the Records
472-473.                                                                                                                 ot Uiu Koyal Society :--

Portsoy, 24--27.                                                                                        The Phenomena of Venus      in an Orrery, 174u,
Pounds, four weights to weigh any num                                                                     97 ; An Improvement of    the Celestial Globe,
    ber of pounds from 1 to 40, SOS-- 309.                                                                 1747, 10s ; Description   of a new piece of
                                                                                                        Mechanism
Poyntz, Right Hon. Sir Stephen, 46, 48,                                                                                for exhibiting   the Time, Dura
57--58 ; death of, 58 --5a, til-- (i2,                                                                  tion, ic.. of  Solar Eclipses,  1754.184; Tables
                                                                                                        fWoreigchhat,ng1in7g59T, r2o4y1;WAeigDhetscinritpotioAnvoiardnudpoDise
475, &c.

Practical Astronomer, Mr. Diek's, 268.                                                                  lineation of the Transit of Venus for            17u9,
Prideaux, Dr., 211.                                                                                     17u1, 272: An account of a remarkable            Fish
Prince of Wales sends for Ferguson,                                                                     At1a7nkue4an,c2ci8onu6Kn; tinDgeo-srfcoratihdpe,tionnEecalirposfBeraistoNofle,wth1ea7n6Bd3u,n2S7asofef;
Prize, the Ferguson, and successful  231.
              A,47285--2--427593. .  com-

   petitors.                                                                                            Crane, 1764, 2su ; Description of a New
Problem,                                                                                                Hygrometer, 17u4, 312: Short and Easy
Problem on Planetary Conjunctions,
   Waring and Ford, 201--205.           by                                                              Method for rinding the Quantity of Time in
                                                                                                        tAta1ihno7enyun7Teg,rowi3avf2ne9mstnhi:teentAhu.iDofmPedVbrvoeeioljnr'esfucstCoCi,fooann1vLs7eut6rnau9nanc,etd3tiaoi5nrnD5gsCe;,saAcsS1rtuil7peDnutteio5oDsn,nc,i3ar1ilpsi4nn.f:
Projection of the Transit of Venus (1761),
   258 ; Of Solar Eclipse of 1748, 96 ; Of
   Comet's Path, 356 ; Of part of the
Sphere, 396 : Of the Moon's Path, 49,
    63--64, 70--72, 178.                                                                                Derbyshire, 1772, 390.
Prop and Lever, 7.
Publications :-- The Astronomical Rotula,                                                                     From Hlnton's Universal Magazine :--
                                                                                                        An Improved Hygroscope, 1751, 15s; A Cal
   51P57a4t;h2,,A4107D4;e5Al,isn7ter2oa; ntiAoomnPicrooafjletCchateirodnMDoooifan'lts,he1R7eS4ao2l,
   lar Eclipse of 1746--1748, 96 ; The use                                                                 culus of the Lunar Eclipse of April, 1753,
  of a New Orrery, 1746, 96 ; A Disserta                                                                   176.
   tion of the Phenomena of the Harvest
   Moon and Description of a New Four-                                                                  Pulteney Street, Great, Ferguson's               resi
   wheeled Orrery, 1747, 50--99; Per                                                                       dence in 1749, 139.
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                        PPyurmamp-imdaalkeCrl'osckT,ab3l8e5, --33328.6.
                                                                                                        Pyrometer, 237--238.

                                                                                                        Pyrometer, New, 303--304.

petual Pocket Almanack, 1751, 154 --
156 ; The Lunarium, 1752, 168 ; A                                                                                                  Q
lirief Description of the Solar System,
1753, 179 ; An Astronomical Rotula,                                                                     Quartz Rocks at Durn, 27.
1753, 179; An Idea of the Material                                                                      Question, the. on the Conjunctive Period
Universe,     &c., 1754,
Explained      upon Sir              185; Astronomy                                                        of the Three Hands Answered, 253 --
                                      Isaac Newton's                                                        254.
Principles, 1756, 214 ; New Astronomi                                                                   Question, the Cistern, 309--310.
cal Instrument, 1757,                223; Dial on a                                                     Question and Answers relative to the Na
Card, 1759, 244 -- 246;              Lectures oil Se                                                       tional Debt, 401-- 402.
                                                                                                        Quadrants, Astronomical, of Card, 414 -
lect Subjects in Mechanics, &c., 1760,                                                                      415.
247 ; A Plain Method of Determining
the Parallax i<fVenus. 1761, 252 ; Astro
nomical Tables and Precepts, 1763, 278 ;                                                                                               R
Analysis of a Course of Lectures, 1763,
278 ; The Description and Use of the                                                                    Rainbow, on the, 259.
Mechanical Paradox, 1764,                                                                               Raising of the Roof of Ferguson's Father's
A Supplement to Lectures             302--303;
                                     on Select                                                              Cottage, 7.
Subjects in Mechanics, Sc., 1767, 341 ;                                                                 Rattanach, 3, 6, 7.
Tables and Tracts, 1767. 343: An Easy                                                                   Reeling Lectures, New Terms for, 376
Introduction to Astronomy for Young
Gentlemen and Ladies. 1768, 349 ; Pro                                                                       377.
jection of Part of the Heavens iu which                                                                 Records of Keith, 18. 47 ; of Grange, 47 ;
the Comet of 1769 was seen, 1769, 356;
Syllabus of a Course of Lectures, 1769,                                                                    of Rothiemay, 36, &c.
355 ; An Introduction to Electricity,                                                                   Rectification of the Calendar, 167-- 168.
1770, 371 ; Select Mechanical Exercises,                                                                Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, 1761, 252.
1773, 402 --403; Astronomical Lecture                                                                   Reels, 10.
on Eclipses and the Darkness at the                                                                     Regality Court, Keith, 4.
Crucifixion, 1774,410; Description and                                                                  Reid. Andrew, London, 45, 322, 368, 440,
Use of the Astronomical Rotula, 1775;
415; Three Letters to the Rev. John                                                                         443.
Kennedy, 1775, 417--437 ; The Art of                                                                    Reid. Thomas, Edinburgh, 342--343.
Drawing in Perspective, 1775, 439 --                                                                    Relasb.es, 7, 21, 166.
440 ; Table of the Equation of Time,                                                                    ReEBlidcaisntofofrf'MsFuepsroegsuusmseos,nsioEnil,ngiinEndiMtnhubesueprugomshs,eCssoiinlolengteho,ef
1776, 444.
                                                                                                           Sundries, 472 -- 478.
                                                                                                        Remarkable Fish taken in King-road,

                                                                                                            near ISristol, 278, 480--482.
500 INDEX.

Residences of Ferguson in London, inter                                                                  Select Mechanical Exercises, published,

1743--1776, 123, 139, 154, 185, 216,                                                                     402--403.
                                                                                                         Select Subjects in Mechanics, Lectures in,
251, 271, 274, 334--368.                                                                                    published, 341.

Respect, marks of, shown to Ferguson,                                                                    Senex, Mr., Optician, London, 49-- 71.
                                                                                                         Session Records of Keith, 18, 47; of
54.

Reverend "Gad Fly," 442-- 443.
Revival of the Moon's Path-curve dispute,
                                                                                                            Grange, 47.
   177--178.                                                                                             Seventy Weeks, Daniel's. 206 - 213.
Revival of the Kennedy Chronology con                                                                    Shanah, or Solar Revolution, Kennedy's,

   troversy, 415--438.                                                                                      422.
Reynolds, Sir Joshua, 445.                                                                               Sharpey, Professor Dr., London. 272 - 273.
Rittenhouse, Mr. (America), 190.
                                                                                                                              Ft"ehregAufrs"iocnTah,"ubencdaonemdreesr.M''au, r1dE1o.mch
Ryder, Sir Dudley, London, 44--45, kc. ;                                                                 "Shepnerd-bov,
   his death, 214.
Ryder, the Hon. Henry, Sandon Hall,                                                                      .Ships, II. M.S.,
                                                                                                            erald," and

Staffordshire, 44.                                                                                       Ferguson, 468.

Road, ruts on, likened to the paths of                                                                   Shipwrecked,         Murdoch Ferguson was,

            2,                                                                             Fer           448.
                3,
                      4,
                           6,
                                7,

                                                    l>y
the Planets, Ecliptic or Zodiac,                                                                         Short, James. 274.
                                                                                                         Sidereal Periods, 76, 114, U9, 220, '275.
   guson, 31.
Rocks, Quartz, at Durn, 27.                                                                              394--395 (table), 427-- 428, &c.
Roemer's Satellite Machine, 164--166.
                                                                                                         Sidereal Periods produced bv Wheelwork
Rotation of the Moon. Wheelwork for pro                                                                                       11"6,C2lo1c9lc--s,2"22an(vdide"Oalsro-
  ducing--vide "Moon" in the Index.                                                                      i"u   Clocks, 114--
                                                                                                              Calculatwm,"
Rose, Esq., Hugh, of Geddes, Letter from                                                                    reriet," in the Index).
                                                                                                         Signature, Fac-simile of Cantly's pen-
Ferguson to, 154--155.      20- 21, 24, 28,

Rothiemay,                                                                                                  printed, 20.
                                                                                                         Signet Ring, Gold, which belonged to John
&c.
                                                                                                            Ferguson, Esq. in the possession of Mr.
Rotulas, 15--16, 38 39, 41, 50, 55, 57--                                                                    Robert Gordon, Keith, 477--478.,
58, 169, 179, 230. 369, 371, 440-441.                                                                    Silk Mill, Gieat, at Derby, and lines on,2.

Roval Society, Ferguson admitted a Fel                                                                   268 -269.

low of, 274.

Royal Society Transactions, Ferguson's                                                                   Silk Reel at Wrington, Somerset-hire,
   Papers in, 97, 108, 1S4, 241, 272, 278.
   286, 312, 314, 329, 355, 390. Also vide                                                               345.              Mr., Keith.                                            18,22,
                                                                                                                          148, 168. 246,
49, 183, 215.                                                                                            Sim,    Robert.                  4,ic. 15,
                                                                                                            46,  47, 72,                             1 2.
          FSetrrgeuest,on'sGrereastide(Bnlcoeomisnbu1r7y6, 1,
Russell                                                                                    Lon           Simmie. Rev. Dr.. of Rothiemay,
   don),                                                                                   251.          Simple Lunar Motion, 120; Train, 43 --
Rutherford, Professor (College, Edin
                                                                                                             I5O.
   burgh), 37.                                                                                           Sinclair, Sir John,
Kutherfurd, Esq., James Lauder, Edin                                                                     Situation, Ferguson ap|iears to have ap
                                                                                                            plied for a, 166,
burgh, 47, 470, 475, &c.
                    s
                                                                                                         Situation. Ferguson applies for vacant .
                                                           I                                             in the Roval Society, and            is
                                                                                                                                                 a                                rejected,

Sale of Busts, imaginarv, 357-- 358.                                                                        271.
Sale of Ferguson's Effects, 469--471.                                                                    Skinner, John, Keith (Ferguson's School

Snnctum Sanctorum, Ferguson's, 52.                                                                          master). 17.
Sandieson, John. 47.                                                                                     Smith. Alex.. Esq., Sec. Col. Bdin., 42.
SSaanFtdeeorllgnituesoHnM'asallc,hOinrSertsearfif--eorsdR,soh4ei4mre--e,r'4s7, ,an11d6611                Snuff-box made by Ferguson, in the pos
                                                                                           one of
                                                                                             167.           session of the Rev. Mr. Moir, Rothie

                                                                                           -- 164;           may,  477.
                                                                                         ;,              Society   of Arte -- Ferguson,       Gordon-- and
                                                                                                      '
Ferguson's improved, 164-- 166 Dr.                                                                       Hand Corn-Mill, 227.
                                                                                                         Society, the American Philosophical, Fer
Pearson's, 166.                                                                                             guson elected member of, H76.
                                                                                                         Solar Eclipse of 1748, 51, 123-- 126 Of
Saunderson, Miss, 50.                                                                                                         ;a
                                                                                                                                                                   ;
Scale, Brass, Ferguson's, in Banff Mu                                                                                         297 Of 1776,    399 (see also
                                                                                                                              in the Index).
seum, 467.                                                                                               "1E76c4li,p2t9a0--"

School,   M"atGheodmaAtilcmali,ght4y5's--,"481, 95, 94.84.                                               Solar Spots, 351, 358 -- 359.
Scholar,

Screw, on the, 10.                                                                                       Solar and Lunar Clock, model of part of

Scriptures, Astronomical Chronology un                                                                   a, 176
folding the. 274--277, 415--439.
                                                                                                         Solt"ahreSoanlIidnr daSeindxdereLfaoulrnaCr"alcSPuiedlareitoiroednass"l  (vide also
Scott. Moncrietf, and Dalgetty. Messrs.,                                                                                                                                          Periods,"
   W.S., Edinburgh, 447.                                                                                                                                                          &c^.

Scrupulous Calculator, the, letter from, to                                                              Solar and Lunar ditto (vide Index for

Kennedy, 438.                                                                                               Moon).            brief Description of, pub
Seafield, Earl of, 26.                                                                                   Solar System,
Season Illustrator, the, 67-- 7u.                                                                                  by
                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                         lished           Ferguson in 1753, 179.
                                                                                                                              INDEX.                                             501

Sophicus Conubicus, of Shaw, 278, 482.                                                                                              Sutherland, Miss Jean, IS.
Sound, em the Velocity of, 260.                                                                                                     Syliabus of a Course of Lectures, pub

Specific Gravity Tables, 330--331.                                                                                                      lished, 355.
                                                                                                                                    System of Astronomical Chronology, Ken
Speyside, 4.
Sphere, Archimedes's, Claudin's Lines on,                                                                                               nedy's, 247-- 277, 415-- 419.
and Translations, 320--321.                                                                                                         System, Solar, A briet Description of. by

Sphere, projection of part of, 396.                                                                                                    Ferguson, published in 1753, 179.

Spinning-wheels, 11, 19.                                                                                                                               T
Spiral Pump Model, 346.
Square, on the Division of, 381--382.
Squares, increasing by Unity, 392.                                                                                                               Of    the Equation of Time, 1, 444
Squaring the Circle, 261 -- 262.                                                                                                    Tables :--   Of    Train of Ferguson's Orrery,
                                                                                                                                       -- 445 ;

Stall Street, Bath, and Ferguson s Lec                                                                                              52 ; Of Satellite Machines, 164--166 ;
                                                                                                                                    Of the Annual and Diurnal Motions of
tures, 272, 338--341.

Standard Weights of Money, Table of,                                                                                                the Planets, Distances from the Sun.
                                                                                                                                    &c., 267 ; Of Planetary Revolutions,
314.                                                                                                                                267 ; Troy and Avoirdupois Weights,
SSttae--(rSlsle1,ae4r ;FaRelrsSogottuausurloanng,dae5zrbi0negg(t,Shineese3w0at--oolsrod3st1u"";dRySPoidattpehureelearmass,l,        241 ; Of Time, for the Regulation of
                                                                                                                                11                                      ; Pendulum
                                                                                                                                15  Clocks and Watches,

                                                                                                                               ").  Lengths, 302 ; for Showing the quantity
                                                                                                                              ").
Stevenson, Professor John, Edinburgh,                                                                                               otifonTsi,me31i5n--a3n1y9;givefnor          of Luna
                                                                                                                                                                        number   Makers,
   472.                                                                                                                                                                   Pump
Stewart, Professor John, Edinburgh, 472.                                                                                            832; for Barometers, 337--338; of Fall
Stewart, Matthew, Edinburgh, 472.                                                                                                   ing Bodies, 377 ; of Standard Weights
Stewart, George, Edinburgh, 472.
Stewart, Sir John, of Grandtully, 35.                                                                                               of Money, 314, &c.

                                                                                                                                    Tables and         Precepts {Astronomical),  277
                                                                                                                                       -- 278 ; in     manuscript, 224.
Stewart, Professor Dugald, Edinburgh,                                                                                               Tables and Tracts, published, 333.

59--60.                                                                                                                             Tantalus's Cup, Model of, 346.

St. Nicholas Churchyard, Aberdeen, and                                                                                              Taste for Mechanics by Ferguson, Origin
   Squire Uaird, 32.
                                                                                                                                    of, 7.
Stokes, Dr., Professor, London, 272 --

273.                                                                                                                                Telescope made by Ferguson, now in Banff
                                                                                                                                       Museum, 476.
Stone Pillar, Leadenhall Street, London, 5.
Stones, Globular, on Durn Gateway, 37 ;                                                                                             Temple, Esq., 472.
                                                                                                                                    Terms, new, for a Course of Lectures by
at Gartness, 28.

''Story of the Peasant-boy Philosopher,"                                                                                                Ferguson, 348.
   by Mr. Mayhew, 483.                                                                                                              Theological Papers, 206- 213, 483--484.
                                                                                                                                    Thomson, Mrs., of Nethercluny, and Fer
Strachan, Mr., Publisher, London, 419.
Strange, Sir Robert, 42.
Stranger shows Ferguson the works of his                                                                                               guson's Likeness, 215, 464.
                                                                                                                                    Thomson, Rev. Mr., of Fetteresso, 442.
   Watch, 24.
                                                                                                                                    Thread and Beads used by Ferguson in
Strathisla, Legends of, by Robert Sim, 4.
Struggle, Ferguson's, in London from 1743                                                                                           taking the relative distances of the

                                                                                                                                    Stars, 14.

    to 1758, 424.                                                                                                                   Three-Wheeled Orrery. 93-- 96.
Stuart, John, Esq., Kegist. Ho., Edin
                                                                                                                                    Thunder-house, electrical, 353.

burgh, 15.                                                                                                                          Tide-Clock, 362--369.

Sun --Rotation on ite Axis in Orreries, by                                                                                          Tide-Dial, 134--137.
Wheelwork, 43, 75, 77, 90, 91, 320.                                                                                                 Tide- Rotula, 369--371.
Sun, Apparent Daily Motion, Wheelwork                                                                                               Tides, on the, 334--336.
for imitating this Motion in Clocks, tic. ,
114, 117, 120-122, 220--222, 299, 365                                                                                               Tillydown, 3, 7.
                                                                                                                                    Time-Table, Equation of, 1, 444--445.
                           "alsOorr"eCriaeslc"ulain                                                                                 Time-Table for regulating Clocks and
--368,   381, 385.  (Vide                                                                                                              Watches, 394-395.
tions"               and                                                                                                            Time, minute portions of, 426 -427. (See
          "Clocks"

   the Index).                                                                                                                         also Tablbs.)
Sun-Dial of Ahaz, 206.                                                                                                              Tippling Miller, Ferguson nearly starved

Sun-Dials, 59, &c. ; Models of, 243.                                                                                                   m the service of a, 21--22.

Sun's Right Ascension, Amplitude, De                                                                                                Tomb, Ferguson's, Inscription on it, and
   clination, &c. , 98.

Supplement to Answer to Ferguson's Es                                                                                                   Model of. 450.
   say on the Moon's Rotation, 159-- 160,                                                                                           Topp, William, Esq., Asgrove, near Elgin,

   &e.      to Ferguson's " Lectures on                                                                                                and Rotula, 371.
Supplement
                                                                                                                                    Townsend's engraved Likeness of Fergu
Select Subjects," published, 341.
                                                                                                                                    son, 465, see Frontispiece.
Surgery, Physic, ana Anatomy, violent in                                                                                            Trail, Rev. Dr. Robert, Boyndie, 473.
   clmation to the Study of, 37.                                                                                                    Trains of Wheelwork for Celestial Mo
                                                                                                                                                                                ""SStaurns.""
Surrey Street, Strand, London, Ferguson's                                                                                           t'i*oEnas,rth&"c.       Vide     Index for
                                                                                                                                                       "Moon      ""Planets,"
residence in 1748, 123.
502 INDEX.

" f'ulculatiom," " Clocks," and " Or-                                                   w

reric»."
Trajectoriuin Luuare, 16, 48--50, 64--65, Wales, the Prince of, sends for Ferguson,
70, 177.                                                           231.

Transit of Venus, and Lines on, 255-- 258, Walk from Keith to Rothiemay, by U.
                                                                   Sim, 148.
272, 355.
Tribute of Respect by Ferguson to the Walker, Adam. Esq., Loudon, 24, 175--
memory of James Glashan, 15.
                                                                   176, 239, 448.
Trigonometer, Armillary, Mungo Mur Walker, Deane, Esq., London, 24, 112,

   ray's, 248--249.                                                   175--176, 239, 268, 307 , 310, 415, 441
Trinity, Ferguson's dispute with a Watch
                                                                   Walker, Rev. George, F.R.S., 322.
   maker on the, and the motiou of Three                           Walker, George, Esn., 45, 321-- 322, 474.
                                                                   Wallace, Professor William, 472.
    Wheels, 145-- 14S.                                             Walpole, Hon. Robert, 45.
Triseetion of the Angle, 390--391.                                 Warmg, Edward, his Problem on the Con
Trisector, Angle, 399-- 400.
Tropical Revolution of the Earth. Vide                             junction of the Planets, 201--202.
Index for Earth.                                                   Watch :-- Ferguson for the first time sees
Troy and Vvoirdupois Weight Tables, 241.
Turner, Dawson, Esq., Great Yarmouth,                              the works of a Watch. 24 ; Mainspring,
                                                                   illustration of its action, 24 ; Made a

249, 393.                                                          woodeu oue. 26 : On the conjunction of

Turning- Lathe, Ferguson's father's, 10.                           the hands of a Watch, 39 ; Wheelwork
                                                                   3fo8r2--a W38a3tch;   to make four beat* a
Tutor's Guide, Moxon's, 28.                                                             to show the apparent   second,
Twilight, Ferguson's Paper on, 255.                                                                            revolu
Twinkling of an Eye. &c., 426-- 427.                               tions of the Sun and Mood, 367 -- 369 ;
Tycho Brahe used Compasses in his youth
in taking the relative distances of the                            Watch of Ferguson's in Museum uf
                                                                   Banff, 476 : Works of one in the Antiq.
                                                                   Mus. , Edinburgh, 478.
Stars, 15.                                                         Watchmaker, Ferguson's dispute with a,
                                                                      on the motions of three Wheels, and the
                   u
                                                                    -Trinity, 145--148.
Uofolding the Scriptures. Astronomical
   Chronology, 274--277, 415- 439.                                 Watchmakers, &c. John Ellicott. 49--50 ;
                                                                      George Graham, 176 ; Mr. Whitehurst,
Universe, material idea of, pub., 175.                                268 : Edward Karnshaw, 301 ; Thomas

Universal Dialling Cylinder, 5, 325--330.                          Mudge, 3S6.
Universal Magazine (Hinton's), 178, 229, Water, on the Weight of, in Pumps and
                                                                   Pipes, 313.
390, &c.
University of London, one of Ferguson s Watson, Mr., Edinburgh, 472.
Orreries there, 321, 474.                                          Weight of the Atmosphere, 260--261.
L'pcott, William, Esq., 241, 251,394, 399, I Weight of Standard Monies, 314.
408.                                                               Weights, Four, to weigh any number vi
                                                                   I Whpeoeulnsds:--fWrohmeel1 taond40,A3x0le8,--93--091. 0 ; Spin
Uranns in an Orrery, 266.                                          ning, and Pirn. 10 ; Pitch-line of Wheels,
Urban, Mr., 255.

Use of the Globes, terms for teaching, 251.
Use of a New Orrery, 72, 96.                                          324--325.
                                                                   Wheelwork :-- For producing the Apparent
                   V
                                                                      motions of the Sun, Moon, and Stars,
Vacant Situation, a, Ferguson applies for,                            --the true motions of the Sun, Earth,
                                                                   Moon, and Planets in Clocks and Or

   166.                                                            r'"'eCr*aiSel«sc.nu,l"atV"ioidnAesfo,"othue,""Cwalanordrkdss","Sinta"rtthO.e"rreInrdieetx,,"
Velocity of Light, on, 259.                                        Wheel-cutting Engine, Ferguson's, 476.
Velocity of a Cannon Ball, 25t>.                                   Whirling Table, 217--218.
                                                                   White's Ephemeris, 163.
Velocity of Sound, 260.                                            Whitehurst, Mr.,Clockmaker, Derby, 263.
Velocity and Force of the Wind, 331.                               Will, Ferguson's, 452-- 455 ; John Fer
Velocity of Falling Bodies, 377-- 379.
Venus's Path in an Orrery, 97.                                        guson's Will, 469.
Venus's Wheelwork in Orreries for pro                              Wilson, George, of Grange (Ferguson's

ducing a tropical               rfeovrol"uCtiaolnculaotfi,ons86",     father-in-law), 5, 88, 47 ; inscription on
      "AlOsorrcvridiees.I"ndex
91.
and
Villette's Burning Mirror, 319--320.
                                                                   his tombstone, 467.
Vincent, Miss, married to Murdoch Fer Wilson, Isabella (Ferguson's wife), 38, 47,

   guson, 468.                                                        467.
Vicissitudes of the Seasons shown in                               Wilson, Miss, of Keith, 56.
                                                                   Wilson, William, yr.. 3, 467.
    Orreries, 43, 62, 84, 98, 12». 191, 193.                       Wilson, James, 454, 467.
                                                                   Wilson, Peter, 449, 467.
   320.                                                            Wilson family, table of Births, 467.
Visits of Ferguson to the King at Kew and

   St. James's, 26, 353- 351, 486.
                                                              INDEX.                                         ->():!

Wilson. Rev. James, Aberdnur, Aber
deenshire, 32.
                                                                                          Y
Wind, Table of the Velocity of, aml Force
of the, 331.
Windmill  "Sttrheeet.floEwdeirnbouf r"gh(M. is4s-<E>--m4b7l1in. ),  Year, Tropical, period of, 75--76, 81--83,
Windsor,                                                               91--92, 167--168,  275, 421, 434--435.
                                                                    Year, the Tropical,    or revolution of the
13.                                                                 Earth   asVisdheow"n
                                                                    work.                   in Orreries  by  CWlohcekesl-"
Wing,  tTryecohrgoe.(hoifsLiAnlcmoalnn'sackI)n. n,5L0o.ndon.        in the                Orrcriet" and
Winn,                                                         46.           Index.

Woman, an Old, assists Ferguson to read                             Year, different lengths of, given in Fer
                                                                       guson's Astronomy, 437.
the Scotch Catechism, 6.
Wooden Globe, Clock, and Watch, made                                Yonge, William, 45.

by Ferguson, 21, 24--25.                                            Young, Doctor, 22--23, &c.
Works of Ferguson, success of, 390.
Woulfe. Dr., 255.

Wray, D., 274.                                                      Zodiac and Ecliptic, familiar idea of the
Wright, Edward, Orrery Maker, London,                                  planets' paths in the, 31.

476.
Wrington Silk Reel. 345.

Wylie, Rev. I>r. Francis, Elgin, 44.

                                        F.niMtrKcli :                       WALK.
                VI l.I.AHTONANT>MACNAH,I'RlNTUt-.
b89097318141a
fi10t1731flmi

B89097318141A

