THE

ANATOMICAL MEMOIRS

                                                                  OF

       JOHN GOODSIK

                                                 F.B.S.

              LATE PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF F.DINBCROn

                                                           EDITED BY

                 WILLIAM TURNER, M.B.

                              PROFCHROROr ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH

        WITH A BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR BY
                HENRY LONSDALE, M.D.

                                                   FORMERLY LECTURER ON ANATOMY

                                          VOL. L

                           EDINBURGH
             ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK

                                        5*1868

Printed by R. Clark, Edinburgh.

                                  TO THE

     HJuptfe of 3ofm ffiooostr, jF.E.S.

THIS COLLECTED EDITION OF HIS WHITINGS,
         WITH A BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR,

                                                           Id

                 RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED.


                   PREFACE.

Soon after the death of the late Professor Goodsir
several of his friends thought that it would only be a
fit tribute to the memory of one who for so many years
had occupied a prominent position as a teacher and
man of science, to collect and arrange in an easily
accessible form his published anatomical memoirs, most
of which were scattered in Journals, or in the Transac
tions or Proceedings of various learned Societies.

    On examining his manuscripts, it was found that

amongst them were several lectures and essays care
fully written out for the press, and in some cases
even in proof, but which had not been published.
From the new facts, or from the expression of opinion
on questions of scientific interest, which they contained,

it has been decided to include them in this collected
edition of his writings. The duty of selecting those
lectures and memoirs which were considered most
worthy of preservation in this form has been under

viii PREFACE.

taken by Professor Turner, and in the editorial labour
of correcting and revising the proofs he has had the

most willing co-operation of the Kev. J. T. Goodsir,

who has given every facility for examining the mass
of accumulated manuscript, and has taken the most
active interest in the progress of the work.

     The papers are arranged, not in chronological
order, but according to their subject-matter. In the
first volume will be found a number of lectures on
anthropological and psychological questions, none of
which have previously been published; and several
memoirs on descriptive comparative anatomy, of which
the essays on Tethea, and on a New Mollusc, have not
previously appeared in print. Two papers, written
conjointly with the late Professor Edward Forbes, and
a brief Appendix containing some detached observations
selected from his note-books, close this volume. The

second volume contains memoirs on development and
morphology, together with a number of papers on ana

tomy, physiology, and pathology. Of the papers in this
volume, most of those on the mechanism of the joints
are new. The configuration of articular surfaces, and
the movements of the joints, had been for many years
the subject of careful study by the late Professor, and
in addition to the essays on the knee and hip, his

PREFACE.  ix

papers contained notes on the structure and functions
of various other joints, more especially the vertebral
and costo-vertebral articulations, but they were unfor
tunately in too fragmentary a form to be made use of.

In this volume also are incorporated three short papers
by Harry D. S. Goodsir, which originally appeared in

the volume of Anatomical and Pathological Observa
tions published in 1845 in conjunction with his brother
John.

      The duty of preparing the Biographical Memoir

was originally undertaken by the Rev. J. T. Goodsir,

who, after collecting some materials in illustration of
his brother's early life, committed this part of the work
to Dr. Henry Lonsdale, whose long intimacy with
Professor Goodsir, and other members of his family,
and whose literary skill, were regarded as eminently
fitting him to perform this office.

     The portrait is engraved from a photograph of the
Professor when he was forty years of age.

     The Editors beg to acknowledge the liberal spirit
in which the Publishers have carried out the pre
paration of the two handsome volumes now submitted
to the medical profession and the public.


           CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

  .....CHAPTER L                                                  FAliE

Introductory. --The Goodsirs of Fife and Anstruther --
       Three generations of " Doctor Johns" -- The birth,

        schooling, and St. Andrews education of John the
Professor                                                         1

1838.....CHAPTER II.                                              19

Edinburgh Studies and Dentistry -- Anatomy his chief Pur
        suit -- Dr. Knox and other Teachers -- Medical Societies

        -- Friendship with Forbes -- Gets a Surgical Diploma,
       and joins his Father in Practice --British Association,
                          CHAFfER III.
                                                                  37
Memoirs on the Teeth --Jameson's Kindness-- Model Mu
        seum -- Crania from Fife Barrows -- Fossil Fishes --
        Dredging with Forbes -- Natural History and other Pa

         pers read to the Societies of St. Andrews and Cupar

           CHAFfER IV.

Habits of Animals -- The Brotherhood of Friends of Truth --

        Goodsir returns to Edinburgh -- The rising Men of the
        Medical School : Reid, Simpson, Barry, etc. -- Goodsir's
        Appearance and General Character -- His co-operation

with Edward Forbes              .                                 57

Xll CONTENTS.

CHAPTER V.

Wernerian, Royal Medical, and other Societies --Curator and      J' AGE

Lecturer at the Royal College of Surgeons --Museum                 74

Work--Brief Sketch of the Cell-question --Goodsir's
Claims--Virchow at Fault --Latest Doctrines
                                                .

                               CHAPTER VI.                       97

The Domicile of the Goodsirs, its Peculiarities and Attractions

       -- "Noctes Lothianae" --A new Curatorship -- Salmo-
       jiidee --" Sarcina Ventriculi" and other Inquiries --De
       monstrator and chief Curator--His Theories modified

                            CHAPTER VII.                         118

Contest for the Anatomical Chair -- Calvinism alarmed -- Po
       tato-Blight -- His system of Teaching and its Results --
        Loved by his Class --The Success of his Pupils -- Sur
       gical Practice --Veterinary Relations and Agriculture

                         CHAPTER VIII.                           136

Zoological Studies -- Lectures on Comparative Anatomy --
       Knox's Opinions -- The ^Esthetic Club --Defence of
       Anatomy-- Lectures for Jameson -- HI Health --On the
       Continent--Joints -- Nerves . . .

                               CHAPTER IX.                       154

Morphology-- Goethe and Others -- Goodsir's Views and In
       fluences --The Anatomical Museum --Social Reforms --
       Death of Forbes -- Holidays --Philosophical Apparatus

CHAPTER X.

A Mathematical Solution of Organic Forms --The Triangle

and Crystal --Lectures on Man --His Addresses and

Correspondence --The Respect shown him       .                   174

         CONTENTS.                                             xiii

                               CHAPTER XI.                     PAGE
                                                                191
Last Illness -- Hopes of the Future--Death -- Opinions of the
        Press regarding Goodsir -- ResumS of his Character

         DIVISION I.

I. On the Dignity of the Human Body.

Lecture  1. --The Nature of Animality                          207
Lecture  2. --The Essence of Humanity                          215

Lecture 3. --The Erect Position in Man  .                      224
Lecture 4. --The Upper Limb in Man      .                      232

Lecture 5. --The Integument and Organs of Sense

         and Speech in Man              . 243

Lecture 6. --Skull and Brain in Man     . 256

Lecture 7. --Teleology and Morphology   .                      262

.266Lecture 8.--The Position of Man in the Scale
         of Being .                 .

Lecture 9. -- Retrogressive Man                                276

Lecture 10. --Progressive Man    .      . 280

II. On Life and Organisation            . 286

III. Address Delivered to the Graduates in Medicine 323

IV. The Present Aspect of Medicine .    . 336

V. On the Progress of Anatomy           . 350

xiv CONTENTS.

                       DIVISION II.                    PAGE
                                                        371
VI. On the Anatomy of Amphioxus Lanceolatus .

(Transactions Royal Society, Edinburgh, voL xv.)

VII. On Certain Peculiarities in the Structure of the

Short Sun-fish (Orthagoriscus mola)                 .  394

(Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, vol. xxx.)

VIII. On Gymnorhynchus horridus, a new Cestoid Ento-

zoon               . . .'                              401

(Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, vol. xxxi. )

IX. On the Structure and Economy of Tethea          .  405

X. On an undescribed form of Gasteropod Mollusk

from the Firth of Forth          .                     420

XI. On the Natural History and Anatomy of Thalas-

sema and Echiurus  .             .                  .  425

(Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, vol. xxx.)

XII. On Pelonaia, a new Genus of Tunicated Mollusks,

with Description of two Species                     .  435

(Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, vol. xxxi.)

      APPENDIX.

On Asynchronism of the Auricular Contractions

in the Reptilian Heart                              .  443
                                                       446
II. Notes on the Myology of the Elephant            .

           .....451CONTENTS.                   XV

III. Notes on the General Morphology                    PAGE

                                      op the

Muscles                            .

IV. Notes on the Morphology of the Muscles op

the Limbs                                      452

V. Action of the Popliteus Muscle     . 455


EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.

                          -- --

AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.-- Plates I. II. page 371.

Fig. 1. A lateral view of Amphioxua lanceolatus. As the specimen

when sketched was slightly compressed between two plates
of glass, it is represented of greater depth than the animal
exhibits in its natural condition, a The mouth, with the

oral filaments ; b the abdominal fold of the left side : the

fold is semi-transparent, so that the lower surface of the
abdomen is seen through it ; c the anus, with one fin before,
and another behind it ; d the dorsal fin : the vesicular
germs of the rays are seen in all these fins, and the

splanchno-ribs are also visible through the abdominal

parietes ; e the length of the specimen.

Fig. 2. The abdominal aspect of the specimen.  a The mouth ;

                 b b the abdominal folds ; c the anus ; d the heart.

Fig. 3. A lateral view of the same specimen after the removal of the

integuments, including the abdominal folds and the soft

parts of the fins, a The mouth, with the oral filaments ;

b the abdominal muscle, with the splanchno-ribs seen

/through it ; c c the heart ; d the anus ; e the vesicular

germs of the rays of the anterior, those of the posterior
anal fin : these germs do not, like the soft parts, extend to

         the extremity of the tail ; g the germs of the rays of the
         dorsal fin, which, like those of the anal fin, do not extend

         along   the tail  ;   h h the lateral muscular bundles       s"epcahroartdead
         by the   needle,  so   as to display in their intervals the

         idorsalis," and the dorsal and ventral branches of the nerves ;

           the first pair of nerves ; k the second pair, analogous to

the trifacial, the dorsal and ventral branches of which

         extend along the bases of the fins to join the branches of
         the other nerves. This dissected specimen is flattened by

         slight compression, in order to display the various parts with

greater distinctness.

Fig. 4. The integuments have been removed from the tail, but the
                abdominal folds have been left. The abdominal muscle,

VOL. I.                        b

xviii              EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.

            and the branchial compartment of the intestinal tube, have
            been opened longitudinally, a little to the right side of the
            mesial line, a a The two divisions of the hyoid bone ;

            66     the internal surface  of   the branchial chamber, through
            the    walls of which the    "   chorda dorsalis," the nerves, and

            the ventral bundles of the muscles, are seen ; c c the heart,

            wtoiwthardsthethespl"ancchhonrdoa-ribdsorspaalisssin;"g   off from it on each side
                                                                     d d the abdominal muscle ;

            fe the digestive portion of the intestinal tube proceeding to
Fig.   6.     the anus ; g g the abdominal folds.                    " chorda dorsalis,"
            The neuro-skeleton, consisting of a a the

            6 b the vesicular germs of the dorsal fin rays, c those of the

            anterior, and d those of the posterior anal fins.

Fig. 6. The nervous system, a a The spinal cord ; ft the first pair
                of nerves ; c the dorsal ; d the ventral branch of the second

            pair.

Fig. 7. The intestinal system, a The branchial compartment ; 5 the

            digestive compartment of the intestinal tube ; c the mouth ;

            d the anus.                                              «

Fig. 8. The vascular system, a a The heart; b b the primary branches
                or branchial arteries ; c c the branchial veins uniting in

                loops, from the angles between which trunks convey the
                blood into d d the aorta.
Fig. 9. a Portion of the " chorda dorsalis," to show the circular fibres

            of the sheath ; b the superior ; c the inferior longitudinal

                ligament.                                            of the aponeuroses   adhere

Fig. 10. A portion of the sheath ; shreds

                to it.

Fig.   11.  One of the     compressed vesicles which                 thoecc"upcyhortdhae  interior of
              the sheath,  and compose the mass of                                        dorsalis."

Fig. 1 2. Some of the compressed vesicles removed from the sheath, to

            show their relation one to another.

Fig. 1 3. Five of the cylindrical cells, from the dorsal fin, to show their

            relative positions, and the masses of cells which they contain

                in their interior.

Fig. 14. A single cell.
Fig. 15. A portion of the spinal cord, from its anterior third, magnified,

                to show the black matter which runs along the median line,

                and the origins of the nerves.

Fig. 16. A portion of the middle third, highly magnified to show the
              nucleated cells of which it is composed, and the larger cells

                of the dark median band. Some of the cells of the dark

                band are filled with black pigment granules, which are repre
                sented escaping under the compression.

Fig. 1 7. A portion of the spinal cord, magnified to show the origin of

                the nerves by single roots, and without the insertion of the

                primitive fibres of the nerves into the substance of the cord.
Fig. 18. Primitive fibres of a nerve.

          EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.

Fig. 19. A transverse section of the spinal cord, to show the groove on

          its upper surface, and the black matter on the floor of the

                  groove.                                                     «
Fig. 20. Primitive fibres from one of the lateral muscles.

Fig. 21.  The eighteen pieces of one of the divisions of the hyoid bone.
Fig. 22.    The anterior piece carries no ray.

          A few of the splanchno-ribs, to show their relations to the

            heart, aorta, and branchial vessels, a a The ribs which bifur

          cate ; b b the simple ribs ; cc a portion of the heart with four

          branchial arteries ; d d a portion of the aorta with eight

                branchial veins.

Fig. 23. A portion of the aorta, to show the mode of connection be

                tween the aorta and branchial venous trunks and loops.

Fig. 24. A portion of the heart, to show the mode in which the

                arteries leave it. The heart or ventral vessel is somewhat

          flattened, its upper and under walls meeting at an acute

                   angle on each side.
Fig. 25. The lower end of one of the lateral muscular bundles, magni

          fied to show the position and configuration of one of the

Fig. 26.   generative organs.            the hyoid bone,     magnified to
          Portions of four pieces from   also the cavities,  and irregular

           show the mode of connection,

          masses of cells which they contain.

Fig. 27. One of the generative organs, highly magnified under com
              pression, to show the nucleated cells of which it is composed.


                     CHAPTER I.

                                     INTRODUCTORY.

The Goodsirs of Fife and Anstruther --Three generations of " Doctor
      Johns "--The hirth, schooling, and St. Andrews education of John

         the Professor.

The city of Edinburgh is built on lofty heights, accli
vities, and intervening valleys ; it is situated in the

midst of sea and land prospects of great diversity
and beauty ; and naturally and aesthetically it shows
the most picturesque metropolis in Europe. Its Old

and New Towns form an architectural counterpoise;

the Old, with its many-storeyed dwellings, narrow

alleys, quaint turrets, its ancient Castle on precipitous

rock, its royal Palace on meadowed plain --partaking

more or less of the semi-mediaeval, the transitional and
the grotesque in art -- stands in strong contrast to the

uniform streets, the pleasure-gardens, the palatial edi

fices, and noble monumental structures of the New, or

modern city. Claiming the rapturous admiration of

foreigners, and no small share of national homage,
Edinburgh, as a city of historic note, has ever been

the pride and joy of its educated, enlightened, and

aesthetic citizens.  The man of travel, surveying the truly
grand panoramic      view from the Calton Hill, will best

                                       B

2 "MODERN ATHENS."

comprehend the claims of the Scottish metropolis to the

title of " Modern Athens," -- as characterised by her
position, her environs, and sea-approach, --though the

analogy between the cities of the ancient Greek and
modern Scot has been viewed by the historic scholar
as resting upon the broader bases of learning, of litera

ture, and the arts. The Calton Hill itself, not so in

aptly compared (the writer may say from personal
observation) to the Athenian Acropolis, as an eminence
in proximity to the sea and enjoying matchless views,

wants, however, the climatic favours of Greece--the

glorious sunshine that sparkles over the waters of Attica
 and gilds the mountain-tops of Pentelicus ; the Calton
has its works of art, and notably its classic High
 School, but where are the Propylaea, the Erechtheum,
and the Temple of the Wingless Victory ? The Calton
has its lofty Doric columns standing in architectural
 isolation, and imposing, as seen from afar, like
 " Sunium's marbled steep ;" these columns, however,
 can hardly rank with the dilapidated yet ever noble
 Parthenon, which, despite Saracenic and Venetian

 bombardments, man's iconoclasm, and a twenty-three

 centuried exposure to " decay's effacing fingers," still
 manifests in its pristine structure the sublime grandeur
 of Greek art and the marvellous majesty of the Greek

 mind.

       Looking northwards from the Calton, the observer
 notes, immediately beneath, the shipping town of Leith,
 the Firth of Forth, with its countless sail of fishing-
 boats returning from the sea-depths, like laden bees

"THE KINGDOM OF FIFE."  3

to their coast-hives; and across the said firth the county,
better known as the Kingdom of Fife, stretching from
the Ochils eastwards to the German Ocean ; then the

isles of Inchkeith and Inchcolme --a physical landscape
somewhat resembling the Saronic Gulf and its sur

roundings; whilst, turning southwards, his thoughts
may rest with absorbing pleasure on Edinburgh itself,
in recalling its roll of scholars, historians, and men of
science, who helped in days gone by to unravel the
ancient philosophy, and whose successors, consistently
with the age of Progress, are now seeking to outstrip
the Past in a more glorious Present of discovery, en

lightenment, and philanthropy.
      Upon the shores of Fife the Pict, the Roman, the

early Christians and Norman ecclesiastics all played
their part and left their impress ; and when Fife en
joyed the proud distinction of being a Kingdom, the
warlike Thanes, in daring and defeating the Norsemen,
exhibited faithful types of a stern Caledonian mediae-
valism,-- so admirably adduced by Shakspeare in his
Macbeth, one of the greatest dramatic and intellectual
conceptions ever given to the world of letters. As
Fife was a marked theological arena for John Knox,
the rude citizen of Queen Mary's Court, the roost-
destroyer of the Papacy, and albeit the mighty builder
of a " Reformed Faith," so was it one of the cherished

localities of the Covenanters, whose religious fever
burned for martyrdom and death.* Fife being almost

    * Nearly two-thirds of the population of Anstruther, it is said, perished in
the cause of the Covenanters at Kilsyth and Sherifimuir.

4 ANSTRUTHER-- HISTORICAL.

central to the "Highlands" and "Lowlands" became
intimately bound up with the general history of
Scotland from the period, far distant, of its Keltic
aborigines, down to the Roman innovator and the
monkish settlers, with whom, as the ancient ballad
would have it--

                       " The King sits in Dunfermling toune
                          Drinking the blude-reid wine ;"

and whilst it shared in the warlike attitudes and theo
logical feuds of the nation at large, it took the initia
tive in industrial pursuits, and, with a loyalty worthy
 of a better following, held to the last by the Stuart
cause. At a later date, with the close of the 18th
 century, Fife felt the varied impulses that swayed
Scotland in happy bondship with England --to-day
improving its material resources ; to-morrow solicitous
 about its commerce menaced by France or Spain ; and
 on Sundays, all the year round, keenly alive to eccles
 iastical polity and the fresh indoctrination of her pul

 pits.

      On the south-east coast of Fife are two small ship

ping ports --Anstruther "Easter" and "Wester" --hold

 ing the position of royal burghs from 1583-7 down to
 1832, when they were united with Cupar and St.
 Andrews in a single Parliamentary representation.
 " Easter " Anstruther, which affects this narrative, and

 in population has seldom exceeded 1000 inhabitants,
 has its business limited to boat-building, dyeing, and
 coast fishing. This Anstruther, or " Anster," had its
 traditions of naval encounters when Fife saw "the

A TRIAD OF WORTHIES.  5

Norweyan banner flout the sky," also its legends, its
faiths, and its martyrdoms to be discursive upon ; but
all these burgh boasts and local glories might have
passed away with Fife mortalities had not Thomas
Chalmers, D.D., the man of massive head and mighty
work, orator, preacher, and political economist, and
William Tennant, the poet and professor, been born

within its little world. In the year (1814) that Scotland
became cognisant, through Jeffrey's pen in the Edin

burgh Review, of a youthful poet singing right cheerily,
in the ottava rima measures of Boccaccio and Tasso,

fancies based on the customs and characters of Fife, a

third candidate for historical honours was born at An-
ster, named John Goodsir, who, along with Chalmers
and Tennant, constitutes a triad of Anster worthies.

      The Goodsirs of Fife have a family history of at
least two centuries, and a credibly traditional life ex
tending considerably beyond. Their progenitors are

said to have come from Germany, and the old Scotch

mode of pronouncing Goodsir as "Gutcher" would
seem to favour the notion. The family had armorial
bearings and a capital motto -- Virtute et Fidelitate --
than which no words could be found more applicable
to the subject of this narrative. The big frames, the
energy and steadfastness of purpose of the Goodsirs, a

race trained to labour, ingenuity, and forethought, could
hardly be reconciled with the physique and vivacious
nature of the Celt, but seem to point to a strong

Teutonic or direct Scandinavian origin--a supposition

strengthened by the intercourse of the Norsemen with

6 A CAREFUL SPOUSE.

the shores of the Firth of Forth --trading for cereals

with the sons, and now and then espousing the daughters

of Fife. Correctly or not, the nature of the soil is sup

posed to have a share in the product of manly growth

and character ; and the man of the East of Scotland is

looked upon as taller and bigger-headed than the man

of the West; consistently with this opinion the re

ligious revolutions of the Scotch have arisen on the

east of the country, and spread from a radius or central
point over a large territory. Let their origin be what
it may, the Goodsirs managed to keep themselves afloat
in the world, and tried to meet bad harvests by gar

nering a little from the good ones. They were farmers,

schoolmasters, and traders up to the eighteenth cen

tury, when the professional element became the pre

vailing one. The history of the family strengthens

the Horatian tenet, and is not without the sanction

of modern opinion that attributes physical and moral

excellence to ancient stock. Thomas Goodsir of the

seventeenth century may be noted as a prototype of
his kinsmen. During the famine prevailing in his

time, he helped his needy neighbours as long as he
had it to give, and so freely as to draw forth a bit of

his wife's mind :--" Ay, Tammas Gutcher " (repeating

" Tammas" with a dogged meaning), " gie them'd a'
and tak the blanket on yer ain shouthers."* Upon

hearing this, Thomas           would reply to his amiable
                               (Scottish mode of addressing a
spouse :-- " My dame"
                               over the shoulder the token of domestic
     * Was the blanket thrown

poverty and distress ? or was it the significant garb of the" old gaberlunzie of

the seventeenth century ?

GRANDFATHER JOHN.  7

wife), "ne'er fear, ne'er fear!" The Goodsirs were
prone to marry, and, with quivers full, had large fami
lies of sons and daughters. Some of the latter readily
found alliances when favoured, as they sometimes
were, with handsome tochers of 1000 or 1500 gude
Scots merks ; in other words, dowries of a thousand or

more silver coins, each valued at 13 shillings and 4
pence of English money. Many interesting details
crop out of the family history, but only a few words on
the direct line of doctors are allowable in this narrative,
beginning with John, the grandfather of Professor

Goodsir.

     Nearly a century ago Dr. John Goodsir was among
the best known men in the East Neuk of Fife. Born

in the parish of Wemyss in 1 74 6, he became a graduate
of the University of Edinburgh, and settled at Largo.
Known at home for his skill, affability, and other good

parts, his essays in Duncan's Annals of Medicine

gained for him reputation in the Edinburgh circle.
This big-nosed, long-headed, large-hearted disciple of
Galen and Lucina was a fine specimen of the eighteenth

century country medical practitioner--hatted, coated,
booted, and spurred, d la mode. Wiry in build,
thoughtful and successful in practice, aye ready with
his "mull" (Scottice for snuff-box), and aye ready to

help a neighbour as well as to uphold the interests
and character of " canny Fife," he was among the most
popular of men. The customs of the period were
primitive and curious, and the practice of the healing
art in rural districts was carried on in pack-saddle

8 DOCTOR AND PREACHER.

fashion and regularity. Dr. Goodsir would start from
Largo on Monday, caparisoned for the week with
drugs and surgical appliances, and not return home

till Friday--as itinerant with his physic as the ancient

Peripatetic with his philosophy. He rode with a pecu
liar swinging motion that brought his spurs too fre
quently in contact with the horse ; and after the spur-
points were clandestinely cut off, the doctor still made
the rowel play, causing marked solutions of continuity

in the nag's sides. In his moods of abstraction,

medical and theological, he overlooked the effects of
hard steel upon soft textures. To obviate the dangers
of travelling by night, he carried a lantern, fastened by
a strap above his knee. The bull's-eye of the doctor's
lantern was often signalled, in moonless nights, herald
ing the comforting assurance of an obstetric deliverance.
His regularity in his rounds vied with the carrier of
his Majesty's mails, and the saddle-bags of the one,
and surgical accoutrements of the other, were similarly
horsed, so that the Laird of Largo, scanning the roads,

used to say, -- " It's either the doctor or the post that's
coming." His piety in time became as noted and
demonstrative as his physic ; for, after leaving " the

Established Church," and having had experience of the
" Independents," he joined the " Baptists" at Largo,
and occupied their pulpit for twenty years ! The
Christian community looked upon him as " a physician
by profession and a pastor by principle." His success
in both directions led Fife folk to say that Dr.
Goodsir's physic always did good, as it was mixed

THE SECOND DR. JOHN.  9

with prayer. The Evangelical Magazine and Theo
logical Review for June 1821 contains a portrait and
biographical sketch of this worthy ^Esculapian. " The
church of Edinburgh" wrote to " the church at Largo,"
sympathising with the brethren on the loss they had
sustained in the death of Dr. Goodsir, whose " savoury,

and impressive, and edifying manner, as a pastor,"
was well known in the Scottish metropolis, and had
frequently touched the hearts of both churches.

     Dr. Goodsir of Largo married Miss Agnes Johnstone
of Moffat, Dumfriesshire, by whom he had eleven child
ren. His three sons took to surgery. John, the
third son, settled down at Anstruther, where he be

came highly esteemed. He married Elizabeth Dunbar
Taylor, daughter of the Rev. Joseph Taylor of Carnbee,
whose wife was Jeanie Ross, daughter of Duncan
Forbes Ross of Kindeace, and granddaughter of Grizzel
Forbes, the sister of Lord President Duncan Forbes.
This, the second Dr. John Goodsir, had five sons, three

of whom are dead, and one daughter. The oldest son,
named after his father, John, is the subject of this
memoir, and was born on the 20th March 1814. The

second son, Joseph, a scholar and divine, and his amiable
sister Jane, are now living in Edinburgh; Harry, the
third son, an anatomist and naturalist of the highest
promise, joined Sir John Franklin's expedition to the
Polar Seas in 1845, and perished with that noble band

of heroes--martyrs to science and geographical dis

covery ; Robert, the fourth son, graduated in medicine,
and sailed twice to the Arctic Regions with Captain

10 THE GOODSIR ALLIANCES.

Penny (in Lady Franklin's ship), in search of his
brother Harry ; and Archibald, the youngest son,
studied medicine with eminent success in the best
schools of Europe, and then came home to die-- too
truly a victim to his zeal in anatomical pursuits.

     The Goodsirs of Anstruther had formed family ties

with -- 1st, the historical Forbes of Culloden -- many

letters of the Lord President Forbes are now in the
Goodsirs' archives ; 2d, with John Monro of Milton,
the father of Dr. Monro, Primus and founder of the
Anatomical School of Edinburgh ; 3d, with Dr. John
Gregory of Aberdeen, and his son Dr. James, the author
of the Conspectus Medicince Theoreticce, who, living in
Edinburgh, became allied with the Rev. Archibald
Alison, the " Man of Taste," and father of the historian
of Europe, and William Pulteney, the distinguished
professor of the University of Edinburgh ; 4th, with
Dr. Joshua Mackenzie, the father of Henry Mackenzie,
the "Man of Feeling," and others of position in and

around the Scottish metropolis. These direct and colla

teral blood-affinities of John Goodsir might constitute a
pretty family chapter, in which the philosophic, the
medical, and the historic, would find large space and
mention ; and his being linked with the Monros the
most curious of all--the Monros who established the fame

of the Anatomical Chair of the Edinburgh University,
and continued to hold it for three generations, and then
resigned their place and trust to him (John Goodsir),
to uphold, extend, and dignify. The genealogical web
of prominent Goodsir warp, with its skeins of chivalry

THE DAWN OF MEMORY.  11

and law of the Culloden Forbes, forming an excellent
fabric, showed a border of Monro-anatomical cord,

fringed with the aesthetic Mackenzie and the medico-

classical Gregories and Alisons.

     The boy John Goodsir grew in stature and good
sense, and partook of the tender reciprocations of feel
ing that seasoned the domestic hearth of a gladsome
and kindly-conducted home in Scottish life. His
mother was a person of superior education, who pos
sessed many accomplishments, not the least of which
was good management of her household and the
affectionate guidance of her children. John used to
recall his babyhood --his mother's coaxing him to try
a dip in the sea, and of her guiding him so gently
beneath the " bonny waves ;" then the daisied field,
so pearly and scarlet, in which he was allowed to
romp ; and, above all, he remembered the pure white
lily, the presentation of which elicited his first word-
utterance, to his own and others' delight ;--verily a
pleasant dawn of memory, happily associated with
nature, and inchoative of a larger acquaintance with
organic forms and a grander knowledge of the crea
tive world. De Quincey wrote of his babyish me
mories as the earliest on record -- startled, however,

by a sudden burst of grief, the presage to a fitful
and unsettled life of opium in high revelry and anti
podal remorse ; but Goodsir had his primitive cognis
ance called forth, and quite as early in life, by the open
sea, daisied pastures, and liveried flora, and he lived
to enjoy equanimity and pleasure in watching progres

12 JOHN AT ANSTER SCHOOL.

sive thought and extending the lines of science. John's
character as a boy, his brother states, " was singularly

pure and good, never defiled by bad language or mean
and evil deeds. His activity of mind and sagacity,
co-operating with a most kindly and just spirit,

formed for him a constant safeguard. In one sense he

never was a child or boy, for he was at no time the
sport of mere childish or boyish inanity. But still he
was as little, in early as in later life, in the least
priggish or austere. He was an open-faced, warm
hearted, rather diffident boy and lad, even as through
life he continued to be an honest, kindly, and unosten
tatious man." Good education and training fell to
John Goodsir's lot. The worldly wisdom and Scotch
caution, the love of home and of natural scenery, and

the sea and its living things, were exampled to the

juvenile Goodsirs, along with the moralities, the prin
ciples, and the virtues of correct life. John imbibed
the hereditary feeling of his family for worldly dis
tinction, and seems at an early age to have been gather
ing up his strength for the great conflict of life. On

this head his brother very justly remarks :-- " While
natural force of character will always find or make its

own way, and that apart from such force no circum
stances can be of much avail, still the favourable or

unfavourable traditions of a family, equally with those
of a larger society, act most powerfully on the members,
whether of the family or larger associations."

     John was sent to the Burgh and Grammar Schools
of Anstruther, and these, like other Scottish schools,

STUDIES AT ST. ANDREWS.  13

were noted for close surveillance, long tasks, and the
hard grit of the instruction given ; the Bible in daily
use, and the Ten Commandments always in command,
with Long and Short Catechisms standing as awful

monitors in the foreground of puberty. In his thir

teenth year he was sent to the University of St.
Andrews, where he speedily attracted notice by his
assiduity and forwardness as a scholar. He went
through the regular curriculum required for a degree
in arts ; and though the " Humanities " partook more
of a High School form than a true University, the
years of study spent within its walls were viewed by
him as exceedingly profitable and formative of
character. There was the daily work, the hebdomadal
exposition of each lecturer, and other helps to sys

tematic and scholarly pursuits; and these served as
an instructive basis and no less wholesome training to
his diligent and ever-appetising mind. To be put in
the right groove for acquiring knowledge was, to a
lad like John Goodsir, more than half-way to the
accomplishment of the task assigned him. Dr.
Chalmers was Professor of Moral Philosophy at this

time ; and as the Professor and student had both

family and nativity · ties, a pleasant relationship

existed between them. In May 1827, when fully
thirteen years of age, John had mastered the first

twenty propositions of Euclid, and was reading the
 " Clouds" of Aristophanes in the Greek. He showed
 a greater aptitude for Latin than Greek or mathe
 matics; but as he was not one-sided, even in his

14 NATURE AND ART.

juvenile days, each branch of study obtained equal

attention at his hand, and few of his college com

panions were much ahead of him. In the last year of

his studies at St. Andrews he attended a course of

lectures on natural history given by Mr. John G.

Macvicar (then a licentiate of the church, now D.D.,
and the accomplished minister at Moffat), and formed

friendships with those of congenial tastes to his own ;

and though so young, joined a scientific society, in which
several lads of promise were enrolled. Mr. Macvicar's

lectures embraced a general course of natural history,
and were much more than suggestive of first principles.

They comprehended the views of the French school

quoad biology, and these were far in advance of the

British in 1829 ; moreover, they gave a direction to the

feeling for the natural sciences in the ancient Univer
Ifsity.
         the museum of St. Andrews was not large,

the student had the neighbouring quarries, rocky coast,

and hedgerows for helps to his geological and botanical

researches, whilst zoological demonstrations could be

had on the sea-beach and in the ocean's wave.

During the recess or summer months Goodsir

showed no small liking for plants and animals, read

Buffon and Goldsmith, watched the growth of tad

poles, scrutinised the contents of marine nets, traced

the ropes and rigging of the small crafts in Anster

harbour, and in various ways showed the intelligence,
constancy, and methodical study that characterised

him in after years. From his mother -- a woman of
artistic powers --he got lessons in drawing, and he

MECHANICS AND CHEMISTRY.  15

eventually imbibed a love of art almost as strong as
his love of natural science, and this too at a very early

age.

     His self-education went along with his academical,

and received every encouragement at home ; and, as

his brother writes, " this self-education, which after
wards developed itself fully in his professional and

scientific walk, proceeded in three directions : -- 1st,

in observations of the works of nature and art ; 2d, in

the acquisition of knowledge from books ; 3c?, in an
almost instinctive tendency to employ his admirable
hands in observing what struck him, or in constructing
various mechanical and other objects according to their

true principles, as he had learned them, or latterly

in experimenting or anatomising." A camera lucida

excited his curiosity, and made him turn to the Ency
clopedia Britannica, which ever afterwards became
his reference on all matters of doubt pertaining to his
youthful efforts. The work belonged to his grandfather,
and had been well thumbed by a lad of the name of John
Leslie of Largo. Its careful perusal probably helped
to make that lad the Rumford medallist of the Royal
Society in 1803 for his Researches on Heat, and, at a
later date, the celebrated Edinburgh professor, now best
known in history as Sir John Leslie the philosopher.

      Though so favourably situated for the study of
medicine and the natural sciences, John Goodsir

seems to have had a greater desire for mechanics;
he used to say in after years that had his family
given him free scope he would have turned his

16 "can this be oub. jock?"

abilities to engineering work or the construction of
mechanical apparatus. With the aid of a school

fellow he got up a turning-lathe ; he also studied

the steam-engine, and made experiments in chem

istry. In May 1829 he heard a lecture of Professor

Christison's in Edinburgh, which gave fresh zest to

his efforts in chemical manipulation and inquiries.

His desire to work by himself created enemies among

his school-fellows ; and his younger brothers, excluded

from the improvised laboratory, vented their anger

in the same vernacular form as Dr. Cullen's famous

"Can this be our Jock?"* -- by calling from the
outside, " Mathematical-Chemical Jock !" The young

chemist had ample reward for his industry, and for

got all the taunts of his companions when Professor

Syme, called to a patient of his father's at Anster,
and seeing the lad John handling some calculi,

asked him their nature, and being told correctly,

bestowed no small amount of commendation on his

chemical skill -- a pleasant episode in his juvenile

history that was never effaced from his mind.

Anstruther, like all sea-side places, afforded play

to the playful, and much of an interesting nature to
observing lads. Of the numerous belongings there

* Dr. John Brown, the assistant of the famous Cullen of Edinburgh, feel

ing himself aggrieved by the Professor's treatment, sought a Mastership in the

High School of the city. Cullen heard of this, and vented his indignation by
asking those who spoke of Brown's application "Can this be our Jock?"

Brown took his revenge and       wrote EUmmta     medicinal  hoping to   crush
Cullen's theory of physic ; but                    system,"  as Brown's  views
                                 " the Brunonian

were termed, though favoured in Germany and Italy, gained small ground in

Britain.

INCENTIVES TO STUDY.  17

were " the smacks "-- " Rob the Kanter " and " Maggie
Lauder" --the boast of the port, as re-echoing the
strains of "Anster Fair;" the fishermen with their

nets and tackle on the beach creating in boys a curiosity
to know the names and uses of the nets' contents, and

that curiosity heightened by the superstitious stories
told of the uncouth denizens of the deep. With fish
and fun and " sailors' yarns," there were also abundant
materials, and of the most interesting nature, for in
vestigation ; and who so likely to take advantage of
them as the sons of Dr. Goodsir, to whom the unknown
" oddities " were continually being offered for in
spection and discrimination ? Marine zoology was
at the door of the Goodsirs, and love of the sea

would increase the enthusiasm of the pursuit; for
what life could be more charming than holding the
helm, or "hauling in a sheet," while the light bark

skimmed o'er the waves, unless the greater pleasure

to John and Harry Goodsir of watching the exuber
ance of animal life that was free to roam over the
wild sea's foam; or when that life, caught in the
meshed trail, came to be cabin'd and confin'd, to see

the motley group of entities, wanting the loves and
affections that bind warmer natures, manifesting
rapacity as their only law, and voracity as the sum
and substance of life ? What opportunities to lads
bent on zoological inquiry and in the possession of
brain, energy, and education ! What glorious in
 centives to study in having the faculties of the mind,
 and all the senses, made partakers of the pleasure of

                                              c

18 CHARMS OF THE SEA.

observation ! Almost every haul in the waters of
the Firth brought up organisms, fitful in action and

Protaean in character ;--the faceless, shapeless, round,

angular, and stellate forms ; the gelatinous, pulpy,
passively transient ; the finny, scaly, and gliding-

surfaced; the shelly, cretaceous, or bristling-defiant,
mingling with the more harmonising and attractive,
showing their lines of beauty, and dots and streaks of

colour, nature-anilined, gold or ruby ;--all studies of

the vast waters of

The sea, the sea, the open sea,  *  #

          #**

And the whale it whistled, the porpoise rolled,
And the dolphins bared their backs of gold.

                   CHAPTER II.

Edinburgh Studies and Dentistry --Anatomy his chief Pursuit --Dr
       Knox and other Teachers--Medical Societies --Friendship with
      Forbes --Gets a Surgical Diploma, and joins his Father in Prac
      tice --British Association, 1838.

Being well grounded in Latin and Euclid, and disposed
to mechanics, chemistry, and natural history, John
Goodsir seemed fitted for the professional walk of his
family. Being desirous that John should, in the course
of time, enjoy the privileges of a Fellowship of the
Royal College of Surgeons in Edinburgh, his father,
with a view to easy pecuniary terms, thought of ap
prenticing him to Mr. Liston or Mr. Syme. Meanwhile,
his old friend Mr. Nasmyth, dentist, and also Fellow of
his college, offered to take John as a pupil and with
out fees. This offer was gratefully accepted, and John
was apprenticed for five years to Mr. Nasmyth, who,
as a master, treated him kindly and considerately.

    In November 1830, John matriculated in Edin

burgh, and attended medical classes both within and
without the University walls. His most absorbing
course of lectures during the first session was Dr.
Knox's, on descriptive anatomy, delivered in Old Sur
geons' Hall. Though not engaged with forceps and
scalpel in hand, he was daily in the rooms watching

20 THE " RESURRECTIONISTS."

the progress of dissections, and adding to his stores of

osteology. In his second year practical anatomy so

absorbed his attention that he wrote to his father ask
ing his permission to become a surgeon, and not a gra
duate in medicine. No doubt he was influenced in
part by his admiration of Knox, and a wish to avoid
attendance on Monro, and possibly also with a view to
economise his father's means. Immediately previous
to Goodsir's student-days, the Edinburgh school of
anatomy was supplied with materiel, got from the
burial-grounds of the neighbourhood, or from England,
even London itself. The men who robbed the graves
of their contents were called " Resurrectionists," and
vile rascals they were ; some of them, not content with
nocturnal depredations, took to the heinous crime of
sacrificing the living for the sake of the booty their
cadaverous victim would yield. Fifteen or twenty
guineas for an adult subject was a great temptation to
the body-snatchers. Students of anatomy, till the act
legalising the removal of the unclaimed dead came

fairly into operation --and this was hardly the case in
1832 -- had to pay dearly for their opportunities of

practical knowledge ; thus Goodsir had £2 to pay for
an upper extremity, and this he laboured at with a
zeal that implied a determination to exact the pound's
worth from the pounds of flesh. He wrote to his mo

Ither as follows-- " do not occupy much of my time
Iin dissecting animals, as am too much employed with
Ihuman anatomy ; but when find a leisure hour in
Idissecting one, the information acquire is so much

TOOTH-PULLING TIRESOME.  21

connected with the subjects discussed in other classes
that it gives me a superiority over others, who only

Iobtain at second hand what acquire by actual inspec

tion."

     Young Goodsir was a thorough student, practical
at work, thoughtful of the hour and the aim and pas
sion of his life, so that the smallest effort in the way
of common business matters disturbed him quite as
much as an adverse vote in Parliament could affect the

most gouty of premiers. The following quotation from
one of his letters shows this :-- " Everything connected
with my studies goes on to my heart's desire, but my

Ibump of order is confused when have to settle any

thing connected with money matters, letters to be
written, calls, etc." He had declared in a previous let
ter that he was not fit for the management of the most
common concerns of life. His landlady's account of
larder-furnishings for the week bothered him, and home

commissions were no less troublesome.

     After two years' experience of dentistry he got
tired of the work, and longed to be free, for, as he
argued, after so many hours of each day so spent, he
could not possibly keep pace with other young men in

the profession who had no such drawbacks. In 1833

he lost his temper quoad dentistry. The influenza
raged as an epidemic in Edinburgh, and he had an
attack ; but tooth-pulling was vastly worse in Good-

sir's eyes -- almost a quotidian ague. He disliked the
art from the beginning, not per se, but as a hindrance

to the higher studies of medicine and surgery ; and, as

22 DONE WITH DENTISTRY.

he wrote, he wished to exercise his hands and his mind

with other instruments, and with other subjects, than
"smith's forges, brass furnaces, and sand-grinding
stones." He was chagrined at seeing the dentist better
paid than the surgeon, when the only diseases he had
to treat were toothache and gum-boil, his only oper
ation the extraction of teeth, and his whole pharmaco

poeia tincture of myrrh. Ill at ease on the matter, he

sought to be free from his apprenticeship. Dentistry
and domestic details stood between him and life's plea

surable enjoyment ; the one a constant gum-boil that
no tincture of myrrh could palliate, the other a half
penny arithmetic beyond the aid of a ready-reckoner.
Soaring above the mechanical agencies of a speciality
like dentistry, his scientific aim became too impetuous
to be restrained by any bonds ; so Mr. Nasmyth very
kindly cancelled his indentures before the expiry of the
legal term. Goodsir's dislike stood in strange contrast
to the progress he had made in an art for which his

head and hands were so well equipped -- an art that
would have brought more money to his coffers than
the most favoured foliowinO& of the natural sciences.
Mr. Nasmyth's confidence in his pupil's powers was
such that he entrusted his large practice to him during
the autumn of 1835, and with entire satisfaction.
Whilst his master's locum tenens, Goodsir wrote to his
father that Daniel O'Connell had been haranguing the
Edinburgh worthies ; and that, wanting a tooth ex
tracted, sent for Mr. Nasmyth, in whose absence he
went; that the " Great Agitator " made no demur to

ANATOMICAL WOKK.  23

his youthfulness, but opened his mouth as the operator

entered the room, as if to say " Out with the rascal!"

When Goodsir's forceps had relieved him of his pos
terior molar, the " Great Dan " had his joke at the loss
of a wisdom tooth, and the " repeal " of their union.

     Anatomy was Goodsir's hobby ; he did not limit
himself to the purely "descriptive," but tried to
advance his knowledge of surgical and pathological

anatomy. During 1832-3 he made plaster-of-Paris
casts of his dissections, to the surprise of his fellow-
students, who had never heard of such a way of ren
dering dissections permanent and instructive. After
some experience, he tried to imitate the models of
ulcers and other lesions in the College of Surgeons,
done by Sir C. Bell, who stood unrivalled in the

art, and believed he had discovered the secret from

experiments of his own : it was painting with coloured
burnt wax, or the encaustic method of the ancients.

He took his plaster-of-Paris cast of the ulcer, and
completed his work at the bedside of the patient, in
the wards of the Koyal Infirmary. In putting up
preparations, in articulating skeletons, and in every
mode by which individual specimens of the animal

series could be illustrated, or morbid growths pre

served, he showed surpassing care and neatness. His
teachers availed themselves of his work ; Knox giving
him a pike to form a skeleton, and other teachers
morbid specimens to preserve. He was studiously
nice in his mode of operating, and learned to do
everything for himself : he laid down a principle

24 GOODSIR APPRECIATED.

worthy of being red-lettered in every dissecting-room,
that a piece of true dissection ought to turn out an
object of wonder and beauty. In his case, as his
brother remarks, " his tools were deserved because he

could use them ; and, like a good workman, he took
pride in his tools and cared for them."

     In his third session he made a collection of

morbid and healthy anatomy of the teeth for Mr.
Nasmyth; and this work probably led Goodsir's
attention to the development of the human tooth and
the interesting changes connected therewith. About
the same time, possibly later, a work of Carus's fell in
his way, the perusal of which strongly impressed him
with the importance of the study of developmental
anatomy, and gave the first impetus to his researches
in that direction. Goodsir could not fail to be

noticed in the classes ; he obtained attention from

his fellow-students by his methodical demonstrations,
his sketches, and casts ; while his teachers early
detected in him superior ability, and a growing love
for learning in every professional walk. The recog
nition of Goodsir by Knox was agreeably shown by
soliciting him to become one of the vice-presidents
of the Anatomical and Physiological Society, of which

Knox was president. It may be noted here that

 Goodsir joined the Royal Medical Society on Novem
ber 8, 1833, probably for the advantage of the library,
as he does not seem to have taken any part in
 Society business.

      Mr. Goodsir owed a great deal to Dr. Knox, and

           BARCLAY AND THE FROGS.              25

always spoke of him as his anatomical teacher and

friend. In 1830 Knox was far above his compeers,

and did more than any teacher, professorial or extra

mural, to revive the fame of the anatomical school

of Edinburgh, that had been on the wane during the

reign of Monro tertius. He was the successor of Dr.
John Barclay, in 1825-6, and extended the reputation,

so well founded, of that distinguished anatomist.*
Knox won the admiration of John Goodsir, and of

every intellectual student ; for who could fail to be

pleased with a lecturer so fluent in speech, so per
suasive in style, and so generally impressive and

eloquent? The plainest visaged man in Edinburgh,
Knox was gay in dress, with embroidered purple
vests, gold chains in profusion, and dandyism ; more
over, he was a courtier in manners, a dramatist in

action, and possessed of a rhetorical faculty that
would have suited the Bema, the Forum, or the

Tribune.   He had a class of 504 pupils (session

1829 or 1830), the largest anatomical audience ever

* John Barclay was educated for the church, and, as a probationer,

was for some weeks the locum tenens of the Rev. G. Baird of Bo'ness, after

wards Principal of the University of Edinburgh. Mr. Baird, wishing to

ascertain how his parishioners liked Barclay, asked the opinion of a shrewd

villager.  "Gey weel, minister, gey weel," quoth Sandie ; "but every
body thought him daft." "Why, Sandie ?" "0, for gude reasons, minister ;

Mr. Barclay was aye skinning puddocks" (frogs). This dissecting of frogs

changed Barclay's thoughts, and he took to medicine, and became a man of

mark in the anatomical school of Edinburgh.    He bequeathed his fine

comparative anatomy collection, and other      preparations, to the Royal
                                               dogs avoided Barclay's path
College of Surgeons. It used to be said that
                                               them. If disliked by the
from an instinctive dread of his dissecting

aninialities, he was much esteemed by his contemporaries and friends. He

rendered the medical school no small service.

 26 DR. ROBERT KNOX.

known in Britain. A scholar and a man of great

ability, he possessed a self-reliance that never failed
him in the lecture-room, within the hall of his

college, or the inner circle of the Koyal Society.
Anatomy lost its repulsive character to the student,

looking at Knox's masterly attitudes -- so effective,
graceful, and inimitable-- and listening to his graphic

descriptions and narrative, in which the historical was
blended with the figurative and sensational. Knox
in his lecture-room earried all before him : his

voice, now gentle as a zephyr, or evenly melodious,
occasionly rose with characteristic force, to barb the
cynical shaft, to heighten the historical figure, or

to fan the professional ardour of his class. His
wit was keen, flashing, and incisive, highly amusing
to the listener, and oft withering to the object of
his causticity. As a teacher inspiring youths with
a love of biology, he had no rival, nor was he less
grand in discomfiting the charlatanisms, the royal
roads, and trade-following of physic. Pertinent in
description, and ever rich in illustration and critical
acumen, Knox revelled in variety of work, from
the examination of a tissue to the broadest general
izations and occasionally became prophetic of types

and homologues* If his lectures did not fathom all,

     * Whilst Dr. Knox and the writer. (Nov. 1840) were arranging a scries
of humeri for lecture, a marked point of bone at the lower third of the
inner surface of one of the specimens was observed, and, on further examina
tion of the entire collection, other humeri presented more or less of a bony
eminence, not, however, of such a character as to attract attention. After
some thought, Knox said-- "This is a rudimentary structure, Dr. Lonsdale,
and rest assured you will some day find in man a supra-condylmd foramen

           A MASTER IN HIS ART.  27

they were suggestive of more than all that had
ever been proclaimed from British anatomical ros
trums. His translations of Cloquet and Beclard, and

his efforts to impress the English mind with the
doctrines of Bichat and Geoffroy St. Hilaire, and

his own marked tendency to morphology, helped
much to create inquiry among his own pupils, and
to promote the growth of a philosophic anatomy in
Britain.

Under such a teacher as Knox, Goodsir's anatomi

cal predilections had every chance of being strengthened,
for session after session he heard lessons in comparative
anatomy from a master of the art, who could harmonize
the incongruous forms, typify the natural series, and
with a lofty rhetoric clothe the dry bones with fibre

and flesh ;--putting in force the springs of motion and

all the varied manifestations of life. The museums,

private and public, also presented to Goodsir's cognizance

the chief zoological data of the Old and New Worlds --

data marvellous of themselves, yet indicative of a
mightier aggregate -- data as varied as the pebbles of

the sea-shore, of which but few examples could be

fully determined, and those only by a Newton or a
IfCuvier.
           Knox was at home in descriptive and

general anatomy, he was rich and rare upon the human

transmitting the brachial vessels and median nerve, as you see in the
carnivora." This prophecy was verified within a few weeks in the practical

rooms, and, of course, to Knox's great delight. On an adjacent table the carcase
of a huge jaguar was lying, with its natural supra-condyloid foramen, with

which to compare the human rarity. This jaguar, so wonderfully tamed by
Mr. Carter, had been the great sensational fact in a large menagerie. -- Vide
Ed. Mai, and Surg. Journal, July 1841.

28 DR. JOHN REID.

cranium and the history of races ; so that, in whatever
direction the student aimed his course, Knox could be
his guide, philosopher, and friend ; and he was all these
to John Goodsir.

     Mr. William Fergusson and Dr. John Reid were
Knox's demonstrators. The former looked at anatomy
in relation to surgery, and to-day has his reward in

being Sergeant-Surgeon to the Queen, and a member
of the British baronetcy.

      Few could fail to be struck with Eeid's appearance,
bucolic gait and manners, ruddy complexion, with long
locks of black hair hanging over his neck and coat-
collar, broad forehead and open countenance. Under
neath an outer toga that Reid wore, rather shambles
like, in " The Rooms," was a man of large heart and
large promise. Reid's forte was physiology, the
teaching of which Goodsir fully appreciated, but his
greater liking was for the fellowship and friendly
counsel of the man himself. One early debt of grati
tude he owed to Reid was a recommendation to
Professor Alison, of the institutes of medicine, as

the person best fitted to go through a series of dissec
tions in comparative anatomy, which the professor
wished to do at that time for his own information.

Goodsir naturally felt the honourable distinction of
being closeted with the academical physiologist for

two hours, demonstrating to him the cuttle-fish. A

pretty picture might have been conceived from this
episode in the lives of both men ; the philosophic
Alison watching the operations of the Fife lad in his

PROFESSOR SYME.  29

dissection of the mollusc, the young naturalist modestly
pointing out the parts of the anatomy and their uses ;
age and youth changing their respective positions in
the field of teaching, yet pleasantly in concert exploring
organisms for the elucidation of one of Nature's plans,
by which to unravel the type of a larger series.

      Mr. Syme was the surgical teacher and attached
friend of Goodsir ; and no one of the Edinburgh school
has done more for its surgical fame than the present
distinguished professor of clinical surgery. Adorning
his position by numerous improvements in his art, as
acknowledged throughout Europe, he has, in his forty
years' experience as a lecturer, contributed largely to
the surgical indoctrination of the British mind both at

home and abroad. Acting as dresser, and often as
assistant, to Mr. Syme, Goodsir enjoyed the best surgi
 cal education in Edinburgh. Nor did he overlook the
great props of his medical building, and that of materia
medica was far from the least. Professor Christison's

lectures were a daily treat of admirable instruction, as
thousands of graduates, distributed over the world,
 could readily testify. Goodsir never forgot the kind
ness of Dr. John Macintosh, a popular extramural
lecturer on practice of physic, from whom he derived

 much excellent information.

    If anatomy and surgery were the corner-stones of

 the Goodsir fabric, the ornamental column was natural

 history, then taught by Professor Robert Jameson, a
 disciple of Werner and a mineralogist of distinction.

 In his measured walk and fixed countenance, Jameson

 30 PROFESSOR JAMESON.

betokened the man of gravity and precision, if not the
abstract thinker. In society his manner was cool, re

served, and taciturn ; but he was a man of his epoch,
and ever zealous for the extension of his science. He

belonged to the conservative school of natural history.
Though agitated by the bold innovations of Berzelius,
and the greater discoveries of Mitscherlich in his special
walk of mineralogy, and oft refreshed by the advancing
tide of biology, upon which new sciences like palae
ontology were being wafted, he showed in his latter
years a less responsive call to the tendencies of the
age, now looking beyond the museum era of stuffed
birds and the colouring of tattooed New Zealanders.
John Goodsir and his friends Edward Forbes and

Hugh Falconer, were among the chief of Jameson's
pupils in the fourth decade of the century; all ac
knowledged their master's worth, and helped to extend
his fame, and all, like himself, have paid their last
tribute to nature. Jameson in his lecture-room can

never be forgotten. Appearing as if enveloped in his

professor's gown, his head of black hair was brushed
stiffly upward, and gave bold relief to his brow ; his
sallow, strong-lined physiognomy, indicative of the
wisdom of the sage and the appeal of the preacher ;
his head thrown back and fixed ; his slow, precise, and
oracular utterances, each sentence of import being ac
companied by an emphatic throwing of the folds of
his gown across his left breast were all grand adju-
vantia to the occupant of a platform ; and assuredly
no man looked more like a philosopher than Jameson.

goodsir's companions.  31

     When Goodsir studied chemistry in 1831, the

teaching of the science was more theoretical than
practical. Dr. Thomas Hope, known as "Strontian
Hope" for his one discovery, was not an enthusiastic
teacher, and not likely to fascinate the young idea
with the grand problems awaiting solution in the
science. He was dry, didactic, yet methodical and
accurate in his experiments, and a gentleman of the
old type, and essentially academical. Dr. Graham,
the professor of botany, whose lectures were attended
by Goodsir, lived and died in the Linnaean faith,
despite Jussieu and Decandolle, and held by a pocket-

lens as if the microscopic observations of Dr. Robert

Brown had never been made. Without a natural-

history inheritance, Goodsir's botanical knowledge
would have remained latent as far as teaching affected

its genesis.
      Goodsir's character kept him from a promiscuous

acquaintanceship. His brother observes-- " When he

saw or felt there was no affinity, he quietly but reso

lutely kept within himself. In addition to this, the

remains of what was an innate and sometimes painful
 sensitiveness and modesty acted on him powerfully,

 often disadvantageously, through life. Nevertheless
 he always enjoyed the real good of having a quite
 sufficient circle of friendly acquaintance, as well as an
 inner circle of tried friends, whom he valued highly,

 loved sincerely, and delighted in as companions."
 His closest and most important friendship was with
 Edward Forbes of the Isle of Man. They met for the

32 EDWARD FORBES.

first time in Knox's rooms, and instinctively drew
towards each other with the confidence of travellers
going the same road, and formed a friendship that
became firm, cordial, and permanent. Goodsir gave
Forbes his first lesson in comparative anatomy by
showing him how to dissect a snail of the genus
Clausilia, found on Arthur's Seat. Forbes benefited

greatly by his friend's hints, and took earnestly to
malacology ; and in after years became an authority
in the natural history of the mollusca. The two lads,
Fife and Manx, being of tall stature and characteristic
ally visaged, though of different type, were the most
conspicuous members of the anatomical class : gemini
in their evolutions and craving search for the lower
organisms, they were looked upon as a double star
rising above the horizon of their compeers. Mr.

Joseph Goodsir says of them --" Their ages differing

only by a year, their mental and moral constitution,
as also their intellectual and aesthetic tastes, fitted to
work in harmony, even by the striking contrasts they

presented -- their very physical constitution, both

being tall, lithe and powerful men in their respective

fashions --by all these things they were formed to be

companions and collaborateurs."
      Mr. Forbes persuaded Goodsir to accompany him

to a meeting of the "Royal Physical Society," as a
paper was to be read on the chameleon. The theory
of the action of the tongue in the chameleon, as given
by the essayist, Forbes knew from Goodsir's dissections
to be incorrect ; so, without asking his bashful friend's

ESSAY ON THE SNAIL.  33

permission, which he well knew he would not obtain,
begged the favour of the society to call upon a
stranger then present for his opinions on the paper

that had just been read. Goodsir was taken aback by

this appeal, and could not help himself. So he rose

for the first time in public arena, and pointed out
the anatomy and true uses of the structures in the
chameleon, and satisfied the author of the paper, and
the society of his thorough knowledge of this oft-
questioned and poetically -painted animal. This
pleasant public initiative of Goodsir was taken advan

tage of by Forbes and Eeid, who, aided by J. H.

Bennett, now professor of the institutes of medicine --

a friend who knew Goodsir's strength of intellect to

be associated with a severe modesty --persuaded him

to read an account of the snail, which he had drawn

up, to the Anatomical and Physiological Society.*
This paper, so novel and elaborate and highly illus

trated, surprised and delighted his audience. It is

characteristic of Goodsir, that this, his earliest scientific

communication, was only drawn forth by repeated
solicitations of his friends.

     When anatomy, physic, and natural history --each
and all in succession at nights -- had satisfied his

powers of hard thought, he took to Milton and the
poets, Coleridge and other English writers of emi
nence, amongst whom Herschel ranked high. He

     * This essay is not forthcoming. It has been supposed that he read it to
 the "Royal Physical ;" but the evidence is largely in favour of the society

 mentioned in the text.
                                                         D

34 GETS HIS DIPLOMA.

also took interest in the theological and other studies
of his brother Joseph, who was preparing to enter the

church, and there he indicated his true character --

the early manifestation of his grandfather's inherit

ance, theological as well as medical -- by insisting

unweariedly that his brother was neglecting what
ought to be his main study, that of the Bible itself.

His brother's experience to this day testifies to the
wisdom of that warning.

     In 1835 he became a licentiate of the Royal
College of Surgeons, Edinburgh. All he had to say
on his becoming a surgeon was--" The examination

lasted half-an-hour, and was most satisfactory and

Ipleasant to me, do assure you." After aiding Mr.

Nasmyth, he joined his father in practice at An-
struther. His love of anatomy prompted him to
carry to Anstruther an entire "subject" for dissection,
a most hazardous undertaking, by coach and steam
boat. He turned all his dissections to good account
by casts ; and those he made of the perineum (1837)
are now in the Anatomical Museum of the University.
The Rev. Mr. Goodsir says-- "John was endowed with
the natural gifts of strongly-marked intellectual and
artistic powers, and with the unwearied assiduity, or
rather with that capacity of deriving pleasure from the
exercise of his powers, which is as necessary as the pos
session of power itself for the accomplishment of true and
valuable work." Goodsir became an excellent medical
practitioner, and occasionally had the opportunity of
proving his dexterity in operative surgery. He was

SUCCESS IN PRACTICE.  35

the third " Doctor John," and considered the highest
taught of the surgical family. Cases like Lady

            , where consulting physicians failed and he
succeeded, rang through Fife, and to his great benefit.

He had a thoroughly practical mind-- a great desidera
tum in medicine ; but it need hardly be said that

Anstruther offered no field for a man of his capacity.

There were bread-and-butter earnings, and home

amenities -- a scanty pabulum, however, to a man of
craving scientific appetite. His inquiries into the

teeth, and his general and microscopic examination of
the Invertebrata, kept him mentally alive ; indeed, his

scientific habit had become known, as Sir J. G. Dalyell,

in 1838, addressed him as a fellow-naturalist, and

asked him about the Holothuriae, and the mode of

dredging practised on the Fife coast. In the same

year he completed his investigations into the develop

ment of the teeth, and was pressed -- for it was no
easy matter to persuade him -- to communicate the

results of his inquiry " On the Origin and Develop
ment of the Pulps and Sacs of the Human Teeth,"
to the British Association for the Advancement of

Science.

      Attending the British Association in 1838 was a
great effort for Goodsir to make ; but when there, he
had his reward in enjoying high rank among the
original contributors, and in being appreciated by his
seniors in science and the savans of Europe. In
writing his father on the hearty reception he had met

with, he said -- " I need not tell you the kind of

36 BRITISH ASSOCIATION.

pleasure one feels in such a sudden change from a
remote situation, where no one is able to understand or
sympathize with you in your pursuits, to a place which
contains within itself all the talent and science in

Europe, and where every one is eager to acquire and
communicate knowledge;" and in reference to his

paper -- "that his facts were new to science, and that

he had completely set at rest the great questions in
this department of anatomy, so far as human structure
was concerned." Thus he was satisfied with his first

public effort, and encouraged to extend his labours.

It was a great step for a village doctor to make, so

that Dr. George Johnston, the naturalist, might well
sympathize with any and every effort of a provincial
practitioner to help on science, and to rescue men bke
himself and Goodsir from the sort of superciliousness
with which metropolitans were apt to regard them.
Scotland has produced other examples as marked as
Goodsir and Johnston of country doctors extending the
boundary of both literature and science; and Dr.
Francis Adams of Banchory, the Oriental scholar and
translator of Paulus Mgineta, and Dr. Moir (Delta) of
Musselburgh, may be cited as instances.

                 CHAPTER III.

Memoirs on the Teeth --Jameson's Kindness --Model Museum --Crania
      from Fife Barrows -- Fossil Fishes -- Dredging with Forbes --

        Natural History and other Papers read to the Societies of St
        Andrews and Cupar.

This essay, " On the Origin and Development of the
Pulps and Sacs of the Human Teeth," is an excellent
and characteristic piece of Goodsir work, and a care
fully-studied inquiry into one of nature's peculiar
operations in the human economy. Though hundreds
of volumes bore more or less upon the subject, Goodsir
was alive to the fact that much remained to be done,
and his experience in dentistry was a fitting introduc
tion to the work. The principles of his memoir on the
teeth existed hypothetically in Goodsir's mind as early

as the year 1834, when he made the preparations for

Mr. Nasmyth, and only remained to be fully verified
by the investigations he was enabled to pursue after
entering medical practice. He examined the human
dental arches of different ages, from the embryo in its
sixth week through every month of foetal and infantile

life upwards to adolescence, and his observations afford
abundant evidence of great research and originality.

    He divided dentition into three stages :-- 1st, the
Follicular; 2d, the Saccular; and 3d, the Eruptive.

He also indicated a stage previous to the Follicular,

 38 STAGES OF DENTITION.

 during which the follicle or sac does not exist, and the
 future pulp is a simple papilla on the free surface of
 the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane ; this papillary
 stage being of short duration, was included under the
 follicular. About the sixth week of embryonic life he
 found a depression or groove in the form of a horse
 shoe along the edge of the jaw in the mucous
 membrane of the gum, and this he named the primitive
 dental groove, as the germs of the teeth first appear in
it. By the thirteenth week a series of ten papillae arose
in succession in each jaw, constituting the germs or
rudimentary pulps of the milk-teeth, and which he
viewed as processes of the mucous membrane itself.
Each papilla adhered by its base to the fundus of the
groove, whilst its apex, up to the eleventh or twelfth
week, presented itself at, or protruded from, the mouth
of its follicle. The upper jaw was earlier than the
lower one in respect to this stage.

      The follicles appeared to Goodsir as mere dupli-
catures of the membrane of the groove, or the general
gastro-intestinal mucous membrane passing across and
between the papillae. Each of the individual follicles,
with its papilla, vascular branches, and nervous twig,
exactly resembled a large hair-bulb, with its nerve and
vessels exposed after the hair has been extracted* As

      * This opinion receives confirmation now that the teeth and the hairs
rank as homologous organs. Professor Huxley viewed them either as both
enderonic, or both endercmie. The "basement membrane" being found an
imperfect test, Huxley, guided by the question of growth, considers the hair,
the teeth, the scales of fish, and probably the "dermal plates" of reptiles as
ecderouic organs.-- Supplement to Cyclopaedia of Anatom y and Physiology, p.

476.

PROGRESSIVE DEVELOPMENT.  39

the papillae grew, they showed peculiarities of form
corresponding with that of the crowns of the future
teeth. After a time the lips of the dental groove and
small laminae or opercula of membrane developed from
the sides of each follicle begin to cohere from behind

forwards, obliterating the groove and converting the
follicles into closed sacs, and then commences the

saccular stage of the milk-teeth.
     As these stages proceeded, Goodsir observed seve

ral changes in the growth of the human tooth resem
bling what is met with in the lower animals, and felt
disposed to view the opercula of the human tooth fol
licle as rudimentary organs, which attain their utmost
development in the sacs of the elephantoid, ruminant,
and other compound teeth, under the form of depend
ing folds for the secretion of the intersecting enamel and
cement-plates. As illustrative of the law of progressive

development, he cited the human molar tooth-pulp --

first rounded as in certain fishes ; then conical as in

other fishes and reptiles ; then conical and flattened
transversely as in the carnivora ; and finally, by the
equalisation of the primary and secondary tubercles
assuming the shape of the molars in the quadrumanous

animals and man.

     When the primitive dental groove contained ten
appillae in as many follicles, and became situated on a
higher level than at first, he denominated it the second
ary dental groove. This groove affords a provision
for the production of all the permanent teeth, with the
exception of the first anterior molars : the preparation

40 CLAIMS TO DISCOVERY.

is made by little depressions in the form of a crescent
upon the inside of the mouth of each of the milk folli
cles. These depressions Goodsir called "cavities of
reserve," furnishing delicate mucous membrane for the
future formation of the pulps and sacs of the ten an

terior permanent teeth -- incisor, canine, and bicuspid.

The sacs in which the six posterior (superadded) per
manent teeth, or the three permanent molars on each
side, which arise from successive extensions of the dental

groove carried backwards in the jaw posterior to the milk-
teeth are developed, Goodsir named "posterior cavities of
reserve," the wisdom tooth being the final development.

      Goodsir looked upon his follicular stage, from the
first appearance of the dental groove and papillae, till
the latter became completely hid by the closure of the
mouths of their follicles, and of the groove itself, as a
hitherto unknown stage of dentition. He was the first
to point out the peculiar development and character of

the anterior permanent molar -- the most remarkable
tooth in man, as it forms a transition between the milk
and permanent teeth : if considered anatomically, it is
decidedly a milk-tooth ; if physiologically, a permanent

one. No observer had noticed the peculiarity of the
anterior molars that Goodsir established ; he did not
fail to mark the practical bearing of the growth with
the decay of the said teeth.

      The careful investigation of the whole process of
dentition in man, and the clear illustrations given of
the text, fully justified Goodsir in the conclusions he
drew from his researches. The milk or deciduous teeth

CONTEMPORARY OPINIONS.  4L

used to be considered as the parents of the permanent
teeth ; whereas Goodsir showed that they are both laid
down separately and independently of each other. The
profession fully agree as to the value of Goodsir's disco
very. Mr. Flower, one of the latest authorities on this

subject, appropriately says-- " It should be remembered

that instead of there being any such relation between
the permanent and milk-teeth as that expressed by the
terms 'progeny' and 'parent' sometimes applied to
them, they are both formed side by side from inde
pendent portions of the primitive dental groove, and
may rather be compared to twin brothers; one of
which, destined for early functional activity, proceeds
rapidly in its development, while the other makes little
progress until the time approaches when it is called
upon to take the place of its more precocious locum

tenens." -- (Trans. Roy. Soc. London, 1867.)

      From Vesalius to our own times, the milk-teeth

used to be looked upon as the germs of the permanent

ones. Eustachius was almost the exceptional instance
to the current opinion ; he believed that the germs of
both sets of teeth existed in the jaw of the embryo.
Duverney and Herissant had a glimpse of the nature
of the follicles and their relation to the gums, and
Jourdain gave a minute description of the follicle from

its first appearance in the foetal jaw till the period of
birth. Blandin considered the teeth as productions of

 the mucous membrane analogous to the nails and hair,
 and seems to have approximated more closely to the
 true conception of the dental follicle than any of his

42 goodsir's work complete.

predecessors.  Serres, the octogenarian, who died in

January last, and the successor of M. De Blainville,

like Goodsir in being the son of a country practitioner,

and still more like him in character and work, advanced

our knowledge of the embryonic condition of the dental

apparatus in his able treatise on the anatomy and phy
siology of the teeth. He described the germs of the

two sets of teeth, the membranous folds and partitions,

and the relative position of the anterior molar to the

canine, and did much to advance our knowledge quoad

dentition. Hunter, Baron Cuvier, and his son Fre

derick, Purkinje, Muller, Retzius, Bell, Blake, Owen,

and Nasmyth and others laboured at different depart
ments of odontology, confirming in part the researches
of Malpighi and Leeuwenhoek, and contributing fresh

facts to the accumulating stores; but none of these

eminent men gave that attention to the embryonic
conditions of the teeth that Goodsir bestowed ; and no

one succeeded as he did in furnishing a consecutive

and complete account of the whole process of human
dentition. His observations were systematically re
corded, and in the most precise way, and this is a great
desideratum in anatomical science.

When Goodsir read his paper to the British Asso

ciation, he believed that most of his facts were new to

science, and this was the prevailing opinion at the
meeting. In a postscript note (vol. ii. p. 51), Goodsir

explains how he became aware of Professor Arnold's

discovery of the milk-tooth sacs formed by a duplica
tive of the mucous membrane of the mouth, published

SOME OBJECTIONS TO HIS VIEWS.  43

in a Salzburg periodical in 1831, and adduced by
Valentin in his work on Development. That Goodsir's

researches were made independently, no one doubts,
and the comparatively isolated observation of Arnold
in no wise detracts from the larger and more success
ful investigations of the Edinburgh student. Arnold's
views rested on so limited a basis that his own country
men had failed to recognise their application. Easchkow
and Purkinje differed from Arnold's opinions soon after
these were made known in Germany, as to the dental
follicles taking their origin from the mucous membrane
of the mouth. Goodsir's observations were the most cir

cumstantial and complete ever put before the profession.
To claim perfection for Goodsir's work would be un
worthy of the physiologist, as his views on the primor
dial condition of the dental germs may possibly admit
of a slight modification ; indeed, objections have

been raised by Continental anatomists on this spe
cial ground. After twenty years of general acknow
ledgment of Goodsir's correctness, the superficial and
open condition of the dental sacs, and the papillary
commencement of the pulps, were questioned by
Guillot in the Annates des Sciences Naturelles for

1859, and in the following year by Messieurs Robin
and Magitot in the Journal de la Physiologic. These
gentlemen threw some doubts on the mode of Goodsir's
dissecting, and attributed some of the free surfaces he
had described to the use of the needle or brush upon
mucous membrane. Kolliker subsequently defended
Goodsir's main points, not, however, without an ad

44 DENTITION OF MAMMALIA.

mission that in some of his specimens the epithelium
had been abraded, rendering the follicles and papillae
somewhat unnaturally open to the surface. Goodsir
used to say that Monsieur Robin, who objected to the
open follicles, did not look at the structures (embryonic)
sufficiently early, and therefore he only saw the follicles
when they were really closed sacs. Satisfied with the
general accuracy of his own observations, and seeing
nothing to shake his faith in them, Goodsir took no
steps to put himself right with his French contempo
raries. The writer of these pages has always looked
upon Goodsir's Memoir on the Teeth, his first effort in
developmental anatomy, as his best work, and is happy
to find his humble opinion supported by the best

authorities in Britain -- Owen, Sharpey, Huxley, and

others. The minute exploration of the anatomy, the
historical sequence and application of the data obtained
to both physiology and pathology, give a character and
finish to Goodsir's researches, which no special work
or parts of volumed history on the subject had ever

furnished.

     In the following year, 1839, he read a paper to the
British Association " On the Follicular Stage of Denti
tion in the Ruminants ; with some remarks on that
process in the other orders of Mammalia," and an
nounced the fact, that at an early period of embryonic
life, the cow and sheep possess the germs of canine and
superior incisive teeth, the former existing as developed
organs in two or three genera only of ruminants, the
latter being found in the aberrant family of camels,

Jameson's kindness.  45

which showed how general the law of unity of type is
within certain limits. He drew a distinction between

those permanent teeth developed from the primitive,

and those developed from the secondary groove.

     Being requested to publish his essay on the teeth
in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, he

visited Edinburgh to arrange the engravings, when
Professor Jameson sought an introduction to him
through Mr. Nasmyth, and showed him great kindness,
offering him the loan of one of Ehrenberg's famous
microscopes, the discoveries made with which had

startled Europe, and soliciting his company to look over
the Natural History Museum. Fresh from the honours
of the British Association, and now seated by the side of
the Wernerian philosopher, implied that the Goodsir
star was in the ascendant. The joint survey and talk
about the museum had a meaning that Goodsir did
not fail to interpret ; indeed, both professor and practi
tioner seemed mutually pleased with each other, and
from that October morning continued in happy alliance
on the highway of science till the severance of the life-
link of the aged professor. Though soon back to
Anstruther and the drudgery of physic, Goodsir had
resolved to look for a broader platform than " the
Kingdom of Fife." Not that Fife was commercially
slow or mentally stagnant, for the University of St.
Andrews had strong genetic forces in Sir D. Brewster
and others of scholarly aims, many of whom had been
induced by other gales than fortune to set up their
Penates in that retired historic nook -- sylvestrem tenui

46 A MODEL MUSEUM.

musam meditari avend. Moreover, St. Andrews had
its " Literary and Philosophical Society ;" and Cupar,
the county-town of Fife, its " Literary and Antiquarian
Society," both of which were flourishing, and claimed
Goodsir as member.

     In 1837 he began a natural-history museum

alongside of his strictly anatomical and pathological.
He had been gathering from the second year of his
medical studies, and now wished to establish a collec

tion worthy of the name and his own curatorship ;
and for this purpose explored the quarries of the

neighbourhood and dredged the sea-depths towards
the Isle of May. He had capital hands, and showed
dexterity and neatness in all his work, and specially
in preserving the skeletons and skins of fishes. So
busy was he in this direction that his friends concluded

he was bent on ichthyology proper. It cannot be said

that he made great progress in geology, though a
future page will show that he had a penchant in that
 direction. Owing to its arrangements, classification,
 and display, his museum was talked of as a model one,

 and attracted many visitors--even young men of science
 from Edinburgh. He presented his fossil fishes, sup
 posed to be gems in rarity and character, to the Lite

rary and Philosophical Society of St. Andrews. It

 was a source of regret in after years that he had not
 retained this nucleus of a collection in his own hands,
 as in the course of time its extension would have been

 greatly promoted, and especially after his rise to the
 anatomical professorship.

FIFE BARROWS.                              47

     The opening of a barrow at Kingsmuir (Fife) in
1839, and the presentation of the skulls found in it

to one of the meetings of the Cupar society, afforded

Goodsir a fine chance of discussing the character of
these exhumed relics of the far past. Whilst betoken

ing a familiarity with anthropology that ensured the

society's attention, he inferred, from the state of the

teeth in the respective jaws, the nature of the food

eaten by these early Fife settlers, be they Danes or

ancient Caledonians. Various opinions, historical and

ethnological, had been expressed by lay as well as

medical members of the society regarding the crania

before them, but no one hazarded a conjecture as to

the liabilities, or flesh-and-blood conditions of the

individual possessors during life. Nothing, however,

escaped Goodsir's eye and discrimination.  Having

examined the pericranial surfaces, he pointed out the

existence of morbid lesions dependent on a special virus,

which had left so marked an impress on the bones that

a thousand years had in no wise effaced or obscured

its real character. Having gratified the society by

the preciseness and originality of his views, he now

surprised them by showing syphilitic nodes, as mani

fest as any modern instance, on one of the crania.

Had the society been aware that in 1497, about

four years after the return of Columbus from his first

voyage to Hispaniola, the first Scottish edicts were

issued against the new distemper, or "grand gore,"
" pockis," or " French infirmitez," the contents of the

Kingsmuir barrow with its syphilitic member would

48 ROYAL STUART RELICS.

have been looked upon with still greater curiosity and
attention. " Old Aberdeen," seeking purity of morals,
and trying to wash her citizens clean of the " pockis,"
" French infirmitez," and other perilous stuff, by burgh
edicts and excommunications, little dreamt that she
was contending with an old enemy in the land --
Satanic if not Spanish. Whether the " distemper " was
old or new, Goodsir's diagnosis proved his surgical
acumen, and showed how keenly alive he was to the
science of medicine in all its aspects. To-day a rage
for the exploration of barrows and the fingering of
crania exists in Britain, but instead of having guides
of the Goodsir stamp, divinity talkers, and credulous
connoisseurs -- men without anatomical knowledge or
a comprehension of the difficulties attending anthro
pological pursuits -- fearlessly "rush in where angels
fear to tread." Quousque tandem ? The exploring of
barrows led David Page (now LL.D. and the distin
guished President of the Geological Society of Edin
burgh) and others to excavate the burial-ground of the
ancient Abbey of St. Leonards at St. Andrews, where
they discovered a cranium of one of the "Royal Stuarts."
" The divinity that doth hedge about a king " did not
protect this cranium from Goodsir's manipulation and
mouldings. Others quarried for the treasures ; Goodsir
described them. The desecration of the supposed
tombs of the Scottish kings got noised abroad, and
gave rise to official remonstrance and interdict.

     Mr. Goodsir read a variety of essays on Natural
history to the society at St. Andrews, and at the re

         CORNCERES QUARRY.            49

quest of its president, Sir D. Brewster, furnished a

paper on Cilia. If he commenced with Leeuwenhoek's

" Continuatio Arcanorum Naturae" and traced the

history of his subject down to the discoveries of

Sharpey and Grant, supplementing them with his own

work and illustrations, he could not fail to please and

deeply interest a body of men who lived on the shores

of a bay rich in ciliated organisms.

On November 30, 1838, Goodsir described certain

fossil fishes from the limestone and slates of Corn-

ceres quarry near to Anstruther. He stated that in

addition to teeth of the Megalichthys and spiral Cop-

rolites, he had found a number of entire specimens and

detached scales of fishes referable to the Lepidoides

of the Ganoid order of Agassiz ; these latter speci
mens contained five species referable to two genera--

one of these genera was closely allied to Palceoniscm,
but differed from it in wanting the scaling or false

rays along the anterior rays of the anal and dorsal fins,

and on the upper and lower rays of the caudal, and

also in the anal and dorsal fins being almost opposite

to one another near the tail, as in Dipterus. To this

genus Goodsir gave the provisional name Catopterus,

at one time applied by Agassiz to the Dipterus of
Sedgwick and Murchison, but afterwards rejected by

himself ; he considered three of the quarry specimens

to belong to it. The second genus he viewed as inter

mediate between Amblypterus and Eurynotus, ap

proaching the former in the form of the body, and the

latter in the character of the dorsal fin, and differing

VOL. I.  E

50 rAL.EONTOLOGICAL RESEARCHES.

from both in the small size and acuminated shape of
the anal and ventral fins, and in the extraordinary de
velopment of the caudal, the vertebrated portion of
which rose almost perpendicularly to one-third the
length of the animal. From the sail-like appearance
of the dorsal and caudal fins, Goodsir proposed for the
genus the provisional name Istiopterus. Two of the
five species belonged to this genus. These fishes were
all highly heterocercal, and in none of them was there
any trace of the pectoral fins.

     At a subsequent meeting he presented another

 fossil fish, also new, from the Cornceres quarry,
which, in general appearance, approached the genus

Amblypterus, but differed from it in the fins being
 triangular instead of quadrilateral, and resembling
 more the provisional genus Istiopterus, which he had
previously proposed. All the ichthyolites from the
 Cornceres quarry were referable to the Ganoid order
 of Agassiz. The coprolites and detached teeth he
 considered indications of the former existence of a fish

 belonging to the Sauroid family of the Ganoid order.

 All the other fossils he showed were referable to the

 Lepidoid family ; and these, nine in number, he
 described particularly. His frequent visits to Corn
 ceres, and his apt observations of the fossilised forms
 found there, led many of his friends to suppose that
 he was now aiming at palaeontology, his initiative in
 that direction of study offering high promise.

      At another meeting he submitted specimens of two

 species Bero'e, discovered by his friend Edward Forbes,

MARINE ZOOLOOY.  51

in company with Harry Goodsir, on the east sands of
St. Andrews Bay. One was the Bero'e pileus that had
been imperfectly described by Grant in the Zoological
Transactions of 1831 ; the other was new, and after

wards described by Forbes to the Royal Society of
Edinburgh. Goodsir entered fully into the anatomy
of these animals, particularly the Cilia, exhibiting
drawings on a large scale of those interesting organs
discovered by Sharpey, Purkinje, and Valentin.

     To the " Cupar Literary and Antiquarian Society,"
in November 1838, Mr. Goodsir submitted a list of ani

mals collected, preserved and catalogued by his brother
Harry, that had been drawn up from living individuals
gathered upon a surface of land and sea stretching one
mile round Anstruther. The collection of a set of docu

ments -- zoological, botanical, meteorological, and anti
quarian -- Mr. Goodsir considered to be peculiarly the

duty of a county philosophical association, and more
consistent with the spirit of its constitution and the
situation of its individual members, than any other kind
of scientific labour.

     In the spring of 1839, Mr. Goodsir read a paper to
the St. Andrews Literary and Philosophical Society on
certain peculiarities in the eye of the Cephalopodous

Molluscs, basing his observations on the cuttle-fish. The
first peculiarity, or exposed condition of the lens, con
sidered so anomalous by biologists, he held to have
been common at a former period of animal existence,
with nautili, ammonites, baculites, etc. He looked to
the embryonic life of vertebrate animals for an

52 DREDGING EXPEDITION.

explanation of the exposed lens of the cephalopod ; he
controverted Owen's opinion as to the eye of the
animal possessing a perforated cornea and an aqueous
chamber, and held by Cuvier's description of the

organs. In reference to the second peculiarity, or the

glandular body or mass, which Owen and Cuvier had
viewed as a cushion to guard the optic ganglia from
pressure, Mr. Goodsir considered it an organ which had
already performed its functions in the embryo, and
analogous to the choroid gland of fishes.

     In June 1839, Goodsir and Forbes made an

excursion to Shetland and Orkney, where they spent a
fortnight in dredging. They were not so successful in
their search for air-breathing gasteropods as in other
directions, wherein they discovered new animals, and
had the opportunity of supplementing the descriptions
given by naturalists of some of the rarer species
belonging to each locality. The results of this
dredging expedition were laid before the Fife societies,
and afterwards communicated to the British Associa

tion. Amongst the numerous specimens they obtained
was a zoophyte, the largest known form of its tribe,
about four inches long, and with a stem half-an-inch
in diameter. They obtained it in considerable num
bers on a sandy bottom, in about 10 fathoms of
water, at Stromness, Orkney, and supposing it to be
an undescribed form, proposed to give it the name
Ellisia flos maris; but, to their disappointment, found
that it had been discovered a short time previously
by the Norwegian naturalist Sars, and named Cory

FIFE SOCIETIES.  53

morpha nutans. Their joint papers, read before
the Fife societies, embraced the ciliograde animals
found in the Orkneys, St. Andrews Bay, the Isle
of Man, and Ballycastle Bay in Ireland. They also
gave a systematic account of these Ciliograda to
the British Association meeting the same year (1839),
and described a new species of Alcinoe, which they
had found in Kirkwall Bay, Orkney, by the name of
Alcinoe rotunda, with the following characters :--

Ovate, rounded, crystalline ; tentacula rounded at
their extremities ; natatory lobes forming half the
animal.

     Goodsir's own and joint contributions with Forbes
were the most frequent made to the Literary and
Philosophical Society, so that St. Andrews had a fair
chance of being au courant with the progress of
science, and of knowing the men whose aspirations
might be directed to the approaching vacancies in
their ancient University. These Fife societies were
favoured in a high degree. With Sir D. Brewster as
president of the one, the Goodsirs and Forbes as
anatomists and naturalists, David Page as geologist,
Playfair, Adamson, Buist, and others as members,
the Cupar and St. Andrews meetings almost rivalled
the scientific societies of Edinburgh in the variety
and originality of the papers introduced for con
sideration. Goodsir entered into the historical phases
of his work, and showed familiarity with the labours
of Cuvier, Audouin, Milne Edwards, Muller, and

Agassiz abroad ; and of Owen, Fleming, and Sharpey,

54 SYMPATHETIC NERVE.

and other British authorities. Above all, he showed a

painstaking research and originality of purpose. Sir
D. Brewster used to speak of him as a man of superior
culture, and one of the most rising men in science.

     With the growing feeling that manifested itself at
this period in various parts of the country in favour
of popular lectures, the " Men of Fife " joined very

heartily. Forbes gave a short course on natural
history. Page and Adamson treated their special sub

jects, and Goodsir lent a helping hand, though it can
not be said that popular lecturing was much in his line.
He lectured at Cupar on "The Conditions of Health ;"
and it is believed that he gave addresses on more
strictly physiological subjects at St. Andrews, but the
titles of his lectures cannot be correctly ascertained.

     As evidence of his mind not being exclusively
devoted to natural history proper, Goodsir read, on
3d February 1840, a paper to the St. Andrews
Literary and Philosophical Society " On the Cephalic
Termination of the Sympathetic Nerve," a title of
itself to show that he was prepared to battle
against Cruveilhier's opinions. Goodsir viewed the
ganglia forming the linear series along the verte
bral column as centric ; those scattered through
the system or viscera, the excentric ganglia of the
sympathetic. He had no difficulty in showing the
relation of the sympathetic with the cyclo-vcrtebral
elements of the spinal column and the intestinal tube ;
but in proving a similar relation of the nerve to the
cyclo-vertebral elements of the cranium and the

THE AZYGOUS GANGLIA.  55

 cephalic extremity of the said intestinal tube, he had
 to assume the vomer to be the anterior element of the

 cyclo-vertebral system in man. In maintaining this

 opinion he had the support of Carus and G. St.
 Hilaire's observations on the vomer in mammal em

 bryology, and the higher interpretation of the same
 bone or laminated bar in the cranial structure of fishes

 and reptiles. Looking upon the basilar portion of the
occipital, the body of the sphenoid, the vomer, and the

median intermaxillary bones as cyclo-vertebral ele
ments of the cranium, and these bones in close con

nection with the upper part of the intestinal tube, he
inferred that in the immediate neighbourhood of these
combined systems (vertebral and cephalic), the linear
series of the ganglia constituting the cephalic portion
of the sympathetic should be found. He fixed upon

an azygos ganglion --the naso-palatine as the anterior,*

and the ganglion impar as the posterior termination of
the linear series of the vertebral ganglia. The otic,

ophthalmic, and sub-maxillary ganglia were ranked by
him with the cardiac and semilunar, as terminating
in their proper organs, and not linear but excentric
ganglia. He showed the analogy of this view of the

human sympathetic nerve to the double gangliated
row and terminal azygous ganglia which constitute

     * Fontana, Hirzel, and Arnold believed that they traced filaments of

nerves from the cavernous plexus to the pituitary body ; if so, this body

would be more entitled than the nasopalatine ganglion to hold a cerebral
relation to the sympathetic system that the ganglion impar or coccygeal does
to the spinal portion. Bock, Weber, and others, have not confirmed the
views of Arnold.

56 THE HIGHER ANATOMY.

the entire nervous system of the diplo-neurose sub-
kingdom. This essay, resting a good deal on the
osteogenesis of the human cranium, showed a large
acquaintance with the German and French schools of
medicine, and was probably the first marked indication
of his study of the higher anatomy of Goethe, ably
extended by Geoffroy St. Hilaire, and the subject of
much comment and interpretation by Knox.

             CHAPTER IV.

Habits of Animals --The Brotherhood of Friends of Truth -- Goodsir
      returns to Edinburgh --The rising Men of the Medical School --
      Reid, Simpson, Barry, etc. -- Goodsir's Appearance and General
      Character -- His co-operation with Edward Forbes.

The habits of animals, from the polype to the ape, were
a special delight of Goodsir's. A golden eagle was

obtained from the Orkneys, and suitably caged at

Anstruther in 1838. It was a sight to watch this noble
bird kill its prey ; as dead meat or carrion failed to

preserve the beauty and grandeur of its plumage, the

villagers were pleased to bring live animals for the

purpose of seeing the eagle fed. Goodsir used to
describe what took place when a cat was thrown into

the eagle's cage : the fiercest feline was at once cowed ;

the eagle, perched in regal dignity, first cast a glance

at its prey, then suddenly pounced upon the cat,

striking the back with the talons of one foot, and

paralysing the body below the stroke, and as the head
of the feline was raised, it was at once enclosed within

the talons of the other foot and crushed in a similar

fashion, causing immediate death. Homer's description
would well apply---

.. .         dXXa r W aurp

eeevro, xa1  r'e  //.n uxa \aj3uv e%e!\ero Qu/iov.

                                                  Iliad, xvii. 677-8.

 58 THE EAGLE AND ITS VICTIM.

 With the mastery of his victim came forth the display
 of his own excited nature, in the elevated head, the

 feathers of the neck stiff and erect, the wings flickering
 and spread to make the victory complete ; then the
 epigastric section by its beak with quick despatch of
 thoracic contents, the disembowelling and carrying the
 strings of the intestines to its mouth with a rapidity
 worthy of the hungry Neapolitan swallowing mac-
 caroni, and finally tearing off the muscular parts and
 leaving but skin and skeleton as vestiges of the feast.
 What a study of animal life within the Anstruther
 cage ! The eagle in royal ease, the cat appalled, the
descent from the perch, the clutch and death-stroke ;
the nobility of triumph evidenced in eyes of light,
coloured radiance, and high feather ; the evisceration,
the feasting amidst hot blood, and the steamy vapours
of vitality and quivering muscles mocking life in death,

--constituted a picture as generic as it was grandly

exciting and picturesque to behold. The eagle's love
for things of the flesh would have caused the death of
a child incautiously brought by its mother too near
the cage, the wooden paling of which gave way under
the impetuous dash of the ravenous bird, had not
Harry Goodsir come to the rescue.

     The brothers Goodsir tamed a seal and fed it on
milk ; it had its reservoir of sea-water. Then there

were the great king-crab, chameleons, and other animals,
which constituted a small menagerie and fresh sights
for the privileged folk of Anstruther.

     On February 18, 1839, Edward Forbes writes to

THE MAO A CLUB.  59

Goodsir -- " You were unanimously united with us

Iin the Brotherhood, so now hail you as Frater."

In offering an explanation of this laconic and mysteri
ous note, the writer has to revert for a moment to
Forbes's student - life, and his relationship with
Goodsir, that being marked by a hearty co-operation
in science and much pleasant sociality. In 1834-35,

Forbes and a few other students formed themselves

into a " Maga Club," whose objects were literature
and good-fellowship --the latter for a time was pro

bably the more demonstrative. The literature of

the Club found vent in the " University Maga"--

a weekly sheet of poetry and prose, and felicitous

portraiture of lecturers, students, and snobs -- that
delighted every son of A Ima Mater. Forbes, though

foremost with both pen and pencil in the Maga, and
distributing healthy satire and fun broadcast, was
alive to a higher feeling of association than "Club
nights," with Maga toasts and "Eule Britannias."
He and his friends C. E. Stewart and D. Macaskill,

therefore, resolved to found a brotherhood for mutual

help and encouragement in their several spheres of
occupation, be it Art, Literature, or Science. The
Brotherhood, or " Order," as it was called, had a

freemasonry repute among the uninitiated ; and the
words, 01N02, EPns, maqhsis (wine, love, learning),
were adopted as the watchword. As symbolic of
the " Order," the members wore across the breast a

narrow silk ribbon, rose-coloured and black, with

the mystic letters 0. E. M. worked into its texture.

60 WINE, LOVE, LEARNING.

At the meetings of the " Order," the higher-class

brethren wore a small silver triangle, with the

favourite Greek triad engraved thereon. By out

siders, the men of the brotherhood were generally
called "the red-ribbons," or " Oineromaths."
                                                         The

"good-fellowship" brethren, vinously reticent of the

principles of the " Order," brought it into ridicule, if

not contempt, so that, in 1838, it was needful to
weed out those whose " bosoms glowed with oinero-

mathic fire," and to have the earnest lovers of truth

planted in the foreground ; and these alone entered
"The Universal Brotherhood of Friends of Truth."*

Scrupulous care was exercised in the admission of

new members, and of those only who had proved

themselves worthy by works done, or by the show

of a diligent pursuit after truth, and no less by

the possession of a genial and hearty spirit to

further the interests of the brotherhood. There

were gradations in the "Order ;" "frater," "triangle,"

and ceremonial officers--ex. gr. "the Bearer of the

Mystic Lyre" and "Arch Magus." Forbes, after two

years abroad, returned to Edinburgh (Nov. 1838) ;
and among the first acts of the " Brotherhood" was
the election of John Goodsir as "frater;" in Novem

ber of the same year he rose to the honour of

"triangle." The brotherhood consisted of men of

different callings, -- artists, scholars, physicians, natu-

    * This title originated with  Monsieur Jalabert, of  St. Etienne, a staunch
"frater," who got the beautiful                          " manufactured in his
                                  ribbon of " the Order

father's silk establishment.

  Eije ©mbersal BrotfierijootJ of jFrienos of Erutij.

This Brotherhood is a Union of the Searchers after Truth, for
the glory of God, the good of all, and the honour of the Order,
to the end that mind may hold its rightful sway in the world.

     It is a Fellowship demanding of its Members earnestness,

ability, and philanthropy, and recognising among them no dis
tinctions of nation, party, rank, or profession.

      Works done and approved, a sincere and loving spirit, and
the energy to act, are the qualities required of the Candidate.

     Love for the good and the beautiful is demanded of the
Brothers, as well as the determination to seek for truth, and urge
others to the search. Charity to all earnest opinions, kindness
to all living creatures, and thankfulness for the blessings by which
we are surrounded, are inculcated on the Brethren.

      Co-operation in research, assistance in danger and adversity,
advice and firm friendship, are extended by the Brethren towards
each other.

     The Triangle, symbolical of learning, love, and fellowship,
and the Roseate Band, emblematical of their union, are the out
ward signs by which the Brethren recognise each other through
out the world.

                    .
I

A NEW BROTHERHOOD.                            61

ralists, poets, priests, and mathematicians.  Less

would have been said on this subject had not Goodsir
come to be the alter ego of Forbes in the " Brother

hood," and given the last touches to the amended

principles issued in 1841, a copy of which occupies

the preceding page.
     Goodsir was a noble example of the brotherhood

that sought to bind man to man in ties of home

and friendship, love and goodwill ; he was a brother

of help and of counsel in scientific research, and

free from petty misgivings and jealousy of his com

peers. No man, after Forbes-- the Archimagus --

showed a more catholic spirit in maintaining the
principles of the "Order;" no one was more eager

for the interpretation of truth, and few, if any, had

greater hopes of a day of promise and fulfilment

awaiting the patient investigation of organized bodies.
     With these fraternal bonds came a renewal of

the fraternal workings of Goodsir and Forbes, either

at Anstruther or in Edinburgh, when the former

could be spared from his father's practice. It was
pleasant to see these men together -- the Scot, of

quiet demeanour, staid and studious ; the Manxman,

with long shining black hair, moustache, smart attire,

sailor-freedom of manner --having so much in com

mon, and such similarity of pursuits, so thoughtful
at work, highly observant and gentlemanly. For a

time marine zoology engaged them ; but as years

rolled over, the double star affinities of their scientific

course diverged more and more. Human anatomy,

62 TWO OFFERS IN EDINBURGH.

pathology, and morphology, occupied Goodsir ; whilst
starfishes and the invertebrata so largely claimant of
his earlier days, were no longer so exclusive with
Forbes, extending his natural history survey over
Europe, and with felicitous results in the Mediter

ranean.

     In April 1839, Dr. Knox, anticipating the loss of
his " Brother Fred's " services, solicited John Goodsir
to join him in the anatomical lectureship, or, failing
that, to arrange for his brother Harry taking charge of
the "Practical Rooms." Being desirous, above all

things, of lecturing in Edinburgh, Goodsir would at
once have acceded to Knox's proposal, had he not been
at that time in negotiation with the Dean of the Medi
cal Faculty regarding the conservatorship of the Uni
versity Museum. That Goodsir expected to move to
Edinburgh, is shown by his taking No. 21 Lothian
Street in May 1839 as a residence for himself and
Forbes. Harry could not be spared from his father's

practice.
     The meeting of Professor Jameson with Mr. Good-

sir in October 1838, alluded to in a previous page, and
the growing belief that the museums of the University
required reformation to meet the wants of anatomical
and natural science, initiated a conference of the
Medical Faculty. Early in 1839, the said faculty
reported to the patrons of the University that the
preparations of human and comparative anatomy,
healthy and morbid, should have a special conservator.
Professor Syme, who took untiring interest in the pro

        THE MAN FOR THE WORK.  63

ceedings, communicated with Goodsir from time to
time, and in October asked his views as to salary, it

being taken for granted by the medical professors that

he was the man for the work. Some difficulties arose

as to funds for the new project ; the lawyers got their
fingers in, and the season passed. Jameson, full of
hopes as he was of good-wishes to the conservator in

posse, wrote to Goodsir, November 12, 1839 :-- " It has

occurred to me, that as you will ere long be with us

here, you might get up a paper on Comparative Ana

tomy for the 'Wernerian Natural History Society.'

This will serve as an introduction to you, and let you

be known in the College generally." As further proof

of Goodsir's provisional engagement to the University,

Jameson mentions his conferring with Alison and other

colleagues, and adds--" It will also be desirable that

you make as complete a series of marine mollusca,

articulata, and zoophytes as you can for the collection
Ihere.
        presume you have been busy with fishes." It

was May 1840 when the money for the conservator

ship was said to be soon coming, and full summer before
Goodsir felt it judicious to leave Anstruther for his

new vocation in Edinburgh.

     Changes of import had taken place in the Edin
burgh school of medicine since he left in 1835. A

large majority of the extramural lecturers, in fellow

ship with the Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, had
constituted themselves a " Queen's College," in hopes
of a phalanxed unity helping their interests. The

University, though needing fresh blood, had most ex

 64 " YOUNG PHYSIC " PROMISING

cellent representatives in Alison, Sir C. Bell, Christison,

Jameson, and Syme. A monthly periodica] was about

to be started under the able editorship of Dr. Cormack,
and in the ranks of " young physic " were observed
graduates of great promise. The " Eoyal Medical So
ciety," on the approach of its centenary (1837), had its

presidential chair filled by such men as Drs. J. Y.

Simpson, John Reid, Martin Barry, W. B. Carpenter,

J. H. Bennett, and John Percy ; the " Royal Physical

Society " still maintained its eminent position ; and
the " Hunterian Medical Society " had for its senior
president Dr. Samuel Brown -- a host in himself. Drs.
James Duncan and ^Villiam Henderson, and others who
cared less for the public display of societies, were no less
worthy in illuminating the paths of progress, and pro
moting the fame of their " Alma Mater." Engaged in
healthful rivalry, the men, and, it may be said, the

societies generally, gave a happy direction to each
other's efforts, and could not fail to be more or less
formative of the school itself --a school of high reputa
tion, but, like all institutions of historical maturity,
wanting fresh breath and fresh indoctrination.

      Though Goodsir had lost part of his bashfulness by
lecturing at St. Andrews, and taking so active a part
in Fife Societies, he still wore an air of reserve and the

appearance of a closet student. The times were pro
pitious to his casting off the rustic habiliments of his
nature, and his associates, by their stirring example,
were still more conducive to that end. Another day
of biological discovery was dawning over Europe, and

                         DK. JOHN REID.  65

Germany caught the first tangible ray--in the cell-

genesis or theory of growth ; and minds loyal to science
were everywhere on the qui vive for the new develop
mental anatomy upon which to found a new physiology
and pathology. Of his companions or coursers in the
race it is needful to speak, as their example and work

tended much, if a photographic simile can be allowed,
to develop the Goodsir " negative "--to educe the finer

lines, and to give breadth of tone to his scientific por

traiture.

     Dr. John Reid was at this time (1840) lecturing
on physiology and acting as pathologist to the Eoyal
Infirmary --his rooms there being the rendezvous of
a circle of hearty friends* His statistics on the
comparative weights of the different human viscera,
his observations on fever, and other pathological in
quiries (in some of which he was associated with Dr.
Henderson), proved the good use he made of his
hospital position ; his monograph on the eighth pair
of nerves, and numerous original contributions to phy
siology, made him known to Europe. As the disciple
of Haller, the pupil of Alison, and the promoter of new
work, he did right good service. His rare modesty,

mature judgment, and decision, were grafted upon a

* Of this circle only five members and the writer survive ; the cheery Forbes,

the solid Goodsir, the gracious Duncan, the brothers Newbigging, along with

the central figure Reid, are gone. The writer may be permitted to say, in

memoriam of so dearly valued a friend as John Reid, whose friendship and

private confidence he enjoyed from 1836 to the close of his life, that his hearty,

modest, and genial nature, his love of science and truth, marked him as one of

nature's true nobility.  F

      VOL. I.

66 DR. J. Y. SIMPSON.

hearty noble nature. As a truth-seeking son of science,
he exhausted the literature of his subject before he
attempted a line of his own, hence his great success as
a truth-finder and honest historian in physiology. He
was an able critic of other men's opinions, and no less

able expositor of his own -- a German in toil, a Scot in

caution, and ever averse to the rash and sensational
French school headed by Magendie. Goodsir spent
many an improving hour with Eeid, to whose vigorous
mind his own bore great affinity.

     Dr. William Henderson, the pathologist and able

diagnostic physician, obtained large and well-merited
esteem among his compeers. He and Goodsir used to
meet in the hospital to examine morbid products, and
as rising men in the school were bracketed together as
worthy of the professional elevation they afterwards
attained. Though Goodsir was looked upon as an
anatomist, he was exceedingly partial to pathology,
and his observations on the fever of Anstruther
enabled him to show the existence of those intestinal
lesions which Louis and Chomel had described, but
which few British observers had met with.

     Dr. James Y. Simpson, the protegS and assistant-
lecturer of John Thomson, was in the flowing tide of fame
in 1840. An encyclopaedist in medical lore, of winning
manners and great natural abilities, and the writer of
numerous original essays, he raised himself to the
Professorship of Midwifery, and this distinction was
but the prelude to his greater achievements in the
medical art. His discovery of the anaesthetic power

DR. MARTIN BARRY.  67

of chloroform, and likewise of acupressure -- Doric
columns of the new temple of conservative surgery --

his special insight into disease and his novel appliances
to alleviate the sorrows of womankind, have materially-
aided in promoting a higher life and a happier social
status. To-day Sir James Y. Simpson, Bart., stands
alone in modern medicine, nor is he less distinguished
in the collateral sciences-- in archaeology and the
world of letters.

      Dr. Martin Barry, so much esteemed by Goodsir,
was a man of silence and " of drab," yet ever true and

philosophical. Quakerism has had within its ranks
John Dal ton the chemist, and Thomas Young, the
natural philosopher, both of whom adorned the highest
paths of science ; Martin Barry might be claimed as
its greatest physiologist. He graduated in Edinburgh
in 1833, and was the twelfth Englishman to ascend
Mont Blanc (September 1834). He travelled much
and studied more, wrote ably on embryology, and
helped to indoctrinate the British mind with the new
anatomy of the French and German schools. Barry
and Goodsir may be said to have worked in the same
field of inquiry; the latter practised his usual assiduity,
but rarely attained greater success than was awarded the

accurate and painstaking Quaker. They were loving
friends, and their names are to be found associated in

the field of histology and embryology ; the latter was
Barry's forte, sometimes called his earthly idol. No
man in Britain helped more to extend the horizon of
cell-discovery during the first years of its history than

68 DR. ALLEN THOMSON.

Dr. Martin Barry, whose researches are to be found in

the Transactions of the Royal Societies of London and

Edinburgh. His experienced use of the microscope,
his indefatigable inquiries -- sacrificing 150 rabbits to

ascertain one fact in physiology, being almost equal to

Haller's 190 experiments to determine the single point

of muscular irritability -- and thorough knowledge of

developmental anatomy were of the greatest service
Ifto Goodsir.
               any one of his contemporaries is

to be pointed out as of more significance than the
rest in calling forth Goodsir's higher aims and

work, Dr. Martin Barry is the person entitled to the

honour.

    Dr. Allen Thomson --the son of John Thomson

who wrote on various medical subjects, but is best

known, as he is distinguished from his kinsmen, as

" Inflammation Thomson"--was an anatomical lecturer

in Edinburgh, who sought to extend his fame be

yond his inheritance of good medical blood. He had

been a colleague of Dr. Sharpey's, and continued his

mode of teaching after his friend was transferred to

University College, London. In elucidating the mys

teries of the ovum, he was the rival of Barry ; and now
it may be said that no British name is more histori

cally associated with embryology than his own.

Affecting his collateral studies, Goodsir rejoiced in

the friendship of Dr. Samuel Brown, a young chemist
of the highest promise. This " Brother of the Order "

was a delicate, almost feminine-framed person, of manly

heart and high mental endowment, who joined in the

DR. SAMUEL BROWN.-  69

poetic exaltations of Shelley, the erudite and metaphy
sical views of Coleridge, and the transcendentalisms of
Goethe. Versed in the abstract, the abstruse, and the

alchemical past of the Bacons and Van Helmonts, and
daily sifting the current doctrines of Lavoisier and
Dalton, he longed for a higher analysis than had been
obtained by Cavendish, Priestley, or Davy, and the
laying of a more permanent foundation for his glorious
science. With the faith of Paul and all the zeal of

Palissy, he sought, with saintly fervour, to break down
the septum between man and the unknown, and to
penetrate the arcana and very adyta of nature's
temple. He was a profound thinker, with the hopes
of a theoretical seer, heralding the time when the com
posite organic and inorganic worlds would be resolved

by man to a simple element, and the subtle agencies
of light, caloric, and magnetism to one entity. He
worked at the transmutation of metals, not figuratively
seeking the philosopher's stone that would reveal the

unit or seminal principle of the world's constitution--

the atom in the mighty chaos, the parthenogenesis or
nidus of organic forms ; or the molecule, isomorphic in
relation or constructive of the earth's crust, and pro
bably the foundation of universal orbs bearing the
stamp of the Great and the Infinite.

      Another chemist, Dr. George Wilson, also flourished

in the Forbes and Goodsir "brotherhood" -- a man of

admirable talents, and well known for his biographical
efforts, having a faculty of description in science
and technology. Goodsir lived in close bonds with

70 goodsir's personality.

Wilson, but he looked to Brown as the coming man of

the new chemical philosophy.

     Goodsir had a strong will and a disciplined mind,
and no small share of ambition, and the cue to its pro

motion was within the circle of friends just described ;
there were other attached companions, of whom it is

not necessary to speak in this general narrative.
     His personality may be glanced at here, as he is

shaping his plans within doors and busy preparing for the

display of his best energies in a field largely competitive
and exciting. He was now (1840) in the strength of
his adolescence, and presented a tall, gaunt frame,

whose height (75 inches) towered above all his friends.

There was a grave if not sombre tone in his looks,

increased by his brown hair combed downwards over

his capacious forehead, his stooping shoulders, and down

cast visage. His face, however viewed, was striking
from its size ; his prominent nose, deep and thoughtful

eyes, large mouth and chin, and general expression,

showed power, calmness, and perseverance. Walking

along the street, he seemed entirely absorbed with his

own thoughts, as if not living among the men of the

world, but in a world of his own making. Yet there

was an emphatic pronunciation of feeling in every

thing he did, and a manly consciousness of individu

ality; and in all his mental manifestations, an
Iforganized distinctness of feature or plan.
                                              not al

ways lucid in statement or bright in expression, he had

nevertheless a thorough knowledge of bis aim and

work. In public societies he sat more like patience

BRAIN AND HANDS AT WORK.  71

on a monument than a scrutiniser of the proceedings ;
in private life he was disposed to taciturnity, except

ing at home and among his own fraternity, where he

enjoyed the humorous and the jocular with as much
pleasure and risibility as his neighbours. His brain
was large, and this active organ was engaged for six

teen or eighteen hours a-day, and often at high pressure
--that damaging speed to humanity hastening to the

goal of scientific discovery. In the ordinary relations

of the world, he appeared retired and unassuming ; but

in the unreserved freedom of confidential intimacy, he

showed himself possessed of a fair estimate of his own

powers. It is no disparagement to say that he recog

nised his own talents, for the consciousness of power
is not undesirable as a useful weapon with which to
fight the battle of life. He possessed intellectual su
periority, and was not without ambition to display it ;
occasionally the belief in his own powers carried him

beyond his strength or hopes of attainment. In future
pages it will be seen that the variety as well as num
ber of his tentative efforts stood in the way of his

rendering them so perfect and complete as they should

have been, if he aimed them to be historical. His

hands, colossal in size and muscular power, and not

less fine in delicacy of action, were fitting instruments
to his brain, and often in happy co-ordination with its

manifold manifestations. When discussing science or

theology, where the argument became warm and he
was fairly in earnest, the big hand was raised signifi

cantly to support his dictum or his dogma.

72 ST. ANDREWS PROFESSORSHIP.

     He had not been a month in Edinburgh when
the chair of anatomy and medicine at St. Andrews
was declared vacant, and for a time it was supposed
that by subdivision two professorships --"Anatomy"
and " Natural History"--might be established. Good-
sir and Forbes, in the belief that their lectures at
St. Andrews and scientific contributions to Fife

societies had given them a locus standi, were aspir
ants for the vacancies in contemplation. They took
no public action in the matter, and were not
ostensibly in the field of competition, so that the
medical world of Edinburgh were not aware of their
designs ; nevertheless, " feelers " were thrown out by
Goodsir's friends, and Forbes consulted some of the
patrons of the University of St. Andrews. Of the
candidates who appeared with testimonials, Dr. John
Reid was the most popular and deserving, and in
April 1841, he obtained the chair in its entirety, and
with all its ancient privileges.

     At the British Association Meeting at Glasgow
(1840) Goodsir and Forbes read a joint paper on

Pelonaia, a new genus of Ascidian Mollusca, and
" Further Researches on the British Ciliograda." As
partners in science and with congenial affinities, yet
not without the contrasts of sentiment that improve
social relationship, some of their friends approving
highly of their services at this meeting expressed
a wish to see them continue their joint labours as
collaborateurs in natural history. Goodsir was ana
tomical, dry, and undemonstrative, whilst his colleague

MANX BEAUTIES.                                      73

was artistic and full of joyousness. Forbes's love

of fun was strikingly seen in the first number of his

work on starfishes, with the portrait of a pretty girl

as a vignette. In writing Goodsir on the subject of
introducing other Manx beauties, Forbes remarked --
" That's rather a novelty, isn't
;                                 Goodsir and

                                             it,

                                                 V
assuredly to no man could the novelty have appeared

greater than to the non-gallant anatomist. The Manx
naturalist, whose line was more artistic than scientific,

claimed the right to embellish the dry facts and

drier technicalities of his zoological essays with his
pencil and the faces of pretty women were better
than starfishes in more ways than the aesthetic.

                     CHAPTER V.

Wemerian, Royal Medical, and other Societies -- Curator and Lecturer
      at the Royal College of Surgeons --Museum Work --Brief Sketch
      of the Cell-question -- Goodsir's Claims -- Virchow at Fault --Latest

         Doctrines.

In the full expectation of making a position in Edin

burgh, and no doubt encouraged by Professor Jame
son, who, along with Dr. Neill, proposed him, he
became a member of the " Wernerian Society " on the
29th March 1840. His first contribution to the society
(12th December 1840) was "On certain Peculiarities
in the Structure of the Short Sunfish (Orthragoriscus
mola), as observed in a large specimen captured in the
Firth of Forth, near Alloa." He also gave an account
of a species of parasite, which he termed Gymnor-
hynchus horridus, which affects it. The " Wernerian "
being presided over by Professor Jameson, and ranking
among its members every Scottish and many foreign
naturalists, offered the best advantages to the young
aspirant for honours in natural history. From time
to time, and extending over a period of at least six
years, Goodsir contributed a large number of papers
(fifteen in all) either individually or along with his
brother Harry and Edward Forbes. Thus in 1841 he
read a paper on the Natural History of the Echinus
and Thalassema, two genera of Echinodermata ; and

BOTANICAL SOCIETY.  75

in March 1846 a paper on the characters and anatomi
cal structure of the Hyperoodon dalei, taken from a

specimen stranded during the autumn of 1845 near
Alloa; and in February 1847, on the Morphological
Constitution of the Skeleton in Sponges ; he and his
brother Harry read papers on the Metamorphoses of
Cancer Mcenas and Cancer Bernhardus, with descrip
tions of some species of Caprella in April 1842 ; and
on a new Crustaceous animal, Erineus splendens; and
on the Larvae of Balanus tintinnabulum in April
1843. The greater part of his researches in compara
tive anatomy from 1840 to 1847, his description of
" the Natural Features of the Dornoch Firth," and his
observations " On the vast Accumulation of minute

Marine Animals which precede the appearance of .a
Herring Shoal off the Isle of May," were laid before
the Wernerian Society.

     In the year 1840 he furnished his friend Mr. W.

Thompson with an account of the anatomy of Limnceus

involutus, which was printed in the Annals of Natural

History, vol. v. p. 23.

    His juvenile penchant for botany -- of which no

mention has hitherto been made, as zoology, physic, and
palaeontology, had proved too absorbing studies in Fife

to permit of its growth and expansion --became revived

by his residing in proximity to Arthur's Seat and the
Braid Hills, and in having the "Royal Botanical
Gardens " lying in the direction of the Firth of Forth.
He joined the Edinburgh Botanical Society in 1841,
and became its secretaiy in 1842, which office he held

76 HIS CONTRIBUTIONS TO

till 1848, when he was chosen vice-president. His
description of the fungus found on the gills of the
gold-fish (Cyprinus auratus), and his papers on the
Sarcina ventriculi and the potato-disease, were read
to the Botanical Society*

      Goodsir joined the Royal Medical Society in 1833,
but it was the session of 1840-41 before his presence
became known in the hall of debate. Every one,
however slightly acquainted with the Edinburgh
school, knows the high status of the " Koyal Medical,"
and that upon its roll are inscribed the honoured names
of Thomas Addison, Richard Bright, Marshall Hall,
Henry Holland, and others of metropolitan fame, with
those of equal distinction associated with the Scottish

and Irish universities and colleges --the men, in short,

who have been most prominent in the history of
British medicine and discovery during the last hundred

years. In November 1840 Goodsir read his "Dissert
ation" to the society " On Changes produced in the

Caecum by Ulcers and Abscesses," in which he set
forth that the partial obliteration or contraction of
size in the caecum and appendix vermiformis takes
place according to a certain plan; and further, that
" the normal and abnormal obliterating of organs and
parts of organised bodies is conducted according to
certain laws as definite as those which regulate their
development." As the general result of his observa

tion, he concluded --1st, That the caecum and appendix

     * An obituary notice of John Goodsir, from the pen of his loving friend

Professor J. H. Balfour, is recorded in the Transactions of the Botanical

Society of Edinburgh, vol. ix., 1866-67.

THE ROYAL MEDICAL SOCIETY.  77

vermiformis may be partially or wholly obliterated by
the contraction resulting from ulcers and abscesses ;
and, 2dly, That this was effected, in the cases which
have been under my observation in a definite manner,

by folding of the walls of the organ, and subsequent
ulceration of the attached edges, and the two surfaces

of these folds. -- (Printed in Cormack's Monthly
Journal of Medical Science, April 1841). He read
a paper on continued fever in April 1842, marked
by a full symptomatology of the disease, and a

cautious observation as to the pathology being charged
upon " molecular " or " structural lesions." The de
pletive system was in his eyes " the treatment sug
gested by common sense (a faculty of more use to the
practical physician than all the science of Newton)
and approved of by the experience of every age."

Again -- " A proper decision as to treatment requires

experience, tact, and long-headedness." He was con
vinced that in time the country would be mapped
out, so that the type of fever, cephalic or abdo
minal, prevailing in or rather peculiar to each dis
trict and town, will be ascertained by inspection of
the map ; and, lastly, believed that the type of fever
varied according to circumstances, social, meteoro
logical, and geological, with the laws of which we
were not yet acquainted. He was elected Senior
President of the Royal Medical Society in 1841-2,
and continued in office the following year to every

one's satisfaction.

    The " Anatomical and Physiological Society,"

 78 ROYAL PHYSICAL SOCIETY.

founded by Knox in 1833 and for a time in abeyance,
was resuscitated in the session 1840-1 ; Goodsir
resumed bis membership in the society and became
president in 1841-2. He made several communica
tions to the society of minor interest, and in April
 1842 for the first time gave his views on the structure
of the liver and kidney.

      He became a member of the Royal Physical Society
in December 1841, and in the spring of 1842 read
papers on the Development of the Skeleton in the

series of invertebrate animals -- the skeleton of the

Radiata he illustrated by various preparations and
diagrams. He also gave an account of the medusa,
its method of producing its kind, both by its polypes
and perfect forms. On the 12th December 1849 he
was elected one of the three presidents of the " Royal

Physical," and' remained in office for three years --until

November 13, 1852. He should have delivered the
opening address in November 1851, but was prevented
by indisposition. His paper on the structure and
economy of the " Compound Tunicata," his exhibiting
a specimen of a new genus Syntethys from the Hebrides
in March 1851, and giving a few anatomical details
of the new species of Malapterurus in April 1855,
constituted, with the essays mentioned above, the
whole of his contributions to the Royal Physical

Society.
      The appointment of Mr. Macgillivray* to the chair

     * There were several applicants for the Aberdeen chair, and much pressure
brought to bear upon the Government. Macgillivray modestly contented him
self with sending copies of his works on birds and natural history, along with

COLLEGE OF SURGEONS CURATOR.  79

of natural history in Aberdeen caused a vacancy in the
conservatorship of the museum of the Royal College
of Surgeons, Edinburgh. Goodsir felt anxious for the
post, and in setting forth his fitness for it stated that
he had practised every department of preparation and
conservation ; that he had considerable experience in
modelling in clay, plaster, and wax, and in the use of

microscope and pencil ; moreover, his own collection
of preparations in human, comparative, and morbid
anatomy exceeded 400 in number. The character of
his testimonials and the weightier credentials of work
done and exhibited rendered all competition useless,
with the exception of a local candidate of good claims,
who, finding the prohibition of surgical practice a sine
qua non in the conditions binding the curator, also
withdrew his name before the day of election. Good-
sir therefore succeeded Macgillivray on the 21st April

1841. In the matter of pay the situation was wretch
edly poor, but the opportunities it afforded for study
and investigation made it rich and valuable in Good-
sir's eyes. His letters on his appointment sounded
of the Io triumphe strain, not without a prospective

Alexandrian spirit of more worlds to conquer. Those
who knew but the outside of the man in his reserved

attitudes would never have dreamt of such a feeling of
exultation pervading Goodsir, much less of the joy he
exhibited on obtaining a curatorship of £150, minus

 a note to Lord Normanby, the Home Secretary, who, throwing aside party
 considerations, promoted this true lover of the natural sciences to the chair--
 an acknowledgment of merit on the part of a minister of the crown as honour
 able as it was judiciously and handsomely done.

80 HIS WORK APPROVED OF.

certain deductions for assistant, leaving a net income of
£120 a-year! The Surgeons' Museum, containing the

JBarclayan collection of comparative anatomy, great num

bers of highly valuable preparations by ohn and Charles
Bell, and numerous contributions of the Fellows of the
College, afforded a large and instructive field for obser
vation. Goodsir benefited by the labours of his prede
cessors in office, and notably by those of Dr. Knox, who
in 1825 had classified and catalogued the physiological
and natural history series, and aimed at a new order of
things, illustrating human and comparative pathology

--the utility of which, though not recognised at the

time, cannot fail to be appreciated now.
      About this time he sold his pathological prepara

tions, many of which illustrated the intestinal lesions
which he had studied with such care at Anstruther,
and which had enabled him to give so full an account
of the fever of his home locality.

      On the 16th May 1842 the committee of curators
reported favourably of Goodsir's work in the museum
during his year of office ; and at the same sederunt
the College accepted his offer to deliver a course of
lectures on subjects that could be illustrated by the
collection, in the hope that his lectures would extend
the usefulness of the museum and promote the in
terests of the College generally. He gave a dozen

lectures during the summer ; and it could not fail to

be viewed as highly complimentary to him as a
curator that they were attended by professors, medi

cal practitioners, and advanced students. It was

         HIS LECTURES AT THE COLLEGE.      81

sound policy on his part to appear as a public

lecturer, for without some proof of his capabilities in

that direction several avenues would be closed to his

progress --the very avenues he longed to see open to

fair competition. To practise public speaking, and

to give a prominence to his knowledge of several

points in anatomy and pathology, were strong motives

for his making the attempt -- naturally a bold one --

before an audience composed of the elite of the

medical profession in Edinburgh, whose presence

indicated their hopes of getting information, and

breadth and originality of views, from the curator.

As a lecturer at the College of Surgeons, it was said

that Goodsir's matter was very much better than his

manner. Not aided by dress, or deportment, or even

personal appearance, wanting in rhetoric, devoid of

gesture, and dealing out monotonous sentences for

upwards of an hour together, were severe drawbacks

to his success ; nevertheless, Goodsir had the art of

engaging his audience and keeping up the number of

his class to the end of the course. No one could fail

to see his extensive knowledge of the subjects he

discussed, his appreciation of the collection under his

charge, his practical or rather surgical aims, along

with his cultivation of the higher anatomy ; and

Professor Syme, on moving a vote of thanks to him at

the finish of the course, but echoed the general senti

ment of the benches, in saying that Goodsir's lectures

had been highly instructive and valuable.

Goodsir's work in the museum partook more of a

VOL. I.  G

 82 FRESH DEMONSTRATIONS.

refitting and renewing of the old than any building up
or re-construction of new materials. Skeletons were

rearticulated, osseous specimens were mounted on
stands, wet preparations were restored and redisplayed

in spirit; and an improved appearance given to the
entire collection. The new preparations put up by
him are included in the manuscript of the general

catalogue, written in his own handwriting -- Nos.

2222 to 2270, including 29 pathological (both surgi
cal and medical), and 20 specimens of comparative
anatomy, principally from the conger eel, dog-fish,
and the American ostrich. The character of his work
is visible enough for its neatness and the clear
exposition of what should be made apparent in
each preparation. In November 1842 Goodsir pro
posed to the curators to demonstrate the preparations
in the museum to the medical students on Satur
days -- a great boon to those who wished to avail
themselves of a thoroughly practical acquaintance
with the collection. These demonstrations assumed

very much the character of lectures, and not unlike
those given in summer.

   If the College of Surgeons' Museum benefited by

the Goodsir curatorship, the curator himself derived
considerable advantages during his tenure of office.
The variety and extent of the collection afforded
much light to a man gifted with precision of observa
tion, and that observation materially heightened by
the use of the microscope. Possessing experienced
manipulative and good ocular powers, Goodsir sue

GOODSIR LOOKS BEYOND.  83

 ceeded in clearing up the nature of several prepara

 tions and gathering a clue to the unsolved problems
affecting their history. Each eclaircissement afforded
a fresh starting-point to further inquiries, and Goodsir
was not the man to slacken the rein or spare the
whip as goal after goal came into view, indicating the
terminus as still beyond. The night's study at home
hardly kept pace with the daily observations in the
museum. From time to time the societies were

informed of his work, for Goodsir, looking beyond his
present status (1842), had become persuaded that he
should lose no opportunities of obtaining public acknow
ledgment and approbation. " The times" were as ad
vancing and aggressive in the biological as in the political
world. No man of enterprise or ambition thought of
hiding his talents under a bushel in the midst of such
competitive forces as existed in the Medical School of
Edinburgh, of which a sketch has been given in the
previous chapter. Moreover, in his special walk of

anatomy great strides were being made, and notably
in Germany and France -- which nations, along with
Italy and England, constitute the four " Great Powers"
of science in Europe.

      Historians seem agreed that each grand epoch in
the art or science of medicine has derived its first

impulse from a new anatomy, originating a higher
physiology and theory of disease. Galen, though
learned in the philosophy of Plato, the physics of
Aristotle, and the aphorisms of Hippocrates, was little
known for these acquirements ; but his anatomical

84 THE COSMIC ATOMS.

pursuits in the school of Alexandria gave him a living

reputation and a permanent niche in the temple of

iEsculapius. He was ranked as an innovator in his

time. The same fate surrounded Vesalius, whose

anatomical light shone like an eastern star upon
Europe after mediaevalism had passed away. Nor

did Harvey and Bichat escape the imputation

that befel their predecessors.  All of them were,

happily for science, innovators on the past. And

here it may be well, however cursorily, to notice

another innovation upon the old domains, as Goodsir

took a very prominent part in the work, and rested no

small share of his reputation upon the Anatomy of

Tissues or Histology.

The curiosity of ages as to the cosmic atoms, the

corpuscles, and genetic forces of life, came to be solved

in the manner that Sir Isaac Newton had antici

pated -- namely, by the use of the microscope. In

1838, Schleiden and Schwann announced their dis

covery of the primitive organic corpuscle or "cell,"

and to them every honour is due ; nor is there any

desire to detract from their merits in saying the

groundwork of their observations was indicated in

1825, when, at the jubilee of Johann Friedrich

Blumenbach's graduation, celebrated at Gottingen, and

echoed throughout " The Fatherland," Purkinje of

Breslau announced the germinal vesicle in the ovarian

ovum of birds. Purkinje's discovery received further

amplification at the hands of Von Baer and E.

Wagner, and subsequently in the viviparous animals,

THE GERMANS IN ADVANCE.  85

 by Von Baer, Prevost and Dumas, Valentin, and others.
 Had W. Hewson's observations on the " central particle
 of the blood (1773), and R. Brown's on the nucleus
 of the vegetable cell (1831), been fully extended,
 England would have anticipated Germany in the
 cell-discovery. Though Muller's recognition of the
 cellular structure of the chorda dorsalis, and the re

 searches of Henle and Valentin on the epithelium and
 animal textures, as well as those of Mirbel on plants,

 had been published, and though eminent embryologists,

including those named above, and Rathke, Barry,
Bischoff, and Allen Thomson, had the primitive organic
structures under observation, it was left to Schleiden

and Schwann to establish the first base-line of the new

histological survey. It soon came to be recognised

that, however diversified in character the tissues of

organized bodies might be to the eye, the microscope
revealed a remarkable uniformity of character in their
growth and construction ; and further, that all vege
table structures, and many animal, originate in minute
corpuscles having more or less of a vesicular structure,
named " cells." These cells, constituting the germs of
the tissues, are embryonic elements, and the history of
their growth and metamorphosis corresponds in a great
measure to the changes observed in tracing the germinal
vesicle in its progressive stages of development into
the different textures of the animal organism.

     The discovery of the Germans came at a good time
to refresh the physiological mind of Europe. Though
doing a fair amount of work in biology, England

86 BICHAT AND HIS SUCCESSOUS.

seemed satisfied with Sir C. Bell's discovery of the

functions of the nerves, and Dr. Marshall  Hall's exposi
                                           extension and
tion of an " Excito-motory System "--the

application of the views of Whytt and Prochaska to

modern theory and practice, as her great achievements

in the century. In anatomy she furnished no works

equal to those of Beclard, Tiedemann, and Cruveilhier ;

while her physiology was much indebted to Blumen-

bach, Muller, and others. The English Cyclopcedia of

Anatomy and Physiology, edited by Dr. Todd, was a

step in advance, for each fasciculus of the work indi

cated the rise of men worthy of honours in the country

of Harvey, Hunter, and Bell. In comparative anatomy

England owed to Richard Owen her high position in

Europe ; and though entitled to a fair share of the

felicitous observations gracing the field of physiology,

she seemed more or less disposed to rest on her oars,

apparently reticent as to the belief that each decade

should make its own impress on the century's scroll,

and that without such impress history becomes nega

tive, letterless, or nil.

    Bi chat's Anatomic Generale -- a work enough for
any man's immortality -- had satisfied more than one

generation ; but with the advancing spirit of the age,
and a better use of optical appliances, arose the Pur-

kinjes, Von Baers, Midlers, Browns, Schleidens, Barry s,

and Sharpeys, to illuminate the large field of biology.

It was not the tissues, per se, as seen by the naked

eye, or in their chemico-physical relations, but their

embryonic genesis, elaboration, and metamorphosis,

A NEW EPOCH IN SCIENCE.                                87

that were now to engage anatomists. The lens and
the doublet were discarded for the compound micro

scope, and this has afforded a new revelation to men

of eyes and brain, exploring the minute structures of
organisms. As another eureka in history, the discovery

of the "Cell " or organic corpuscle merited " All Hail !"
but it would be no less hasty than unphilosophic to
claim for it the ne plus ultra of man's aim in the field

of physiology. To-day the words of Laplace are as

appropriate as when he uttered them on his deathbed --
" Ce que nous connaissons est peu de chose, ce que

nous ignorons est immense." Moreover, fresh problems

in physiology, quite as much as in physical science,
are continually presenting themselves for solution, and

one discovery is but an introduction to many others,

as startling as the "All Hail!" or the regal shadows

crossing Macbeth's vision : --

      " And yet the eighth appears, who bears a glass  " the
          Which shows me many more."

As the century entered its fourth decade,

cell-question," viewed phytologically and zoologically,
constituted a new epoch in science ; whilst in import,
in scope, character, and excellence, the microscope rose
to a higher and higher perfection. With cell-growth

as a primary fact in the tissues of organized bodies,
all that was needed was a true and fervid cultus on the

part of intelligent minds to render the epoch worthy of
its appliances, its aims, and its destiny. Every one, it

may be said, owes something to his epoch ; some men
owe their happy lines in life entirely to theirs ; and not

88 SHARPEY AND THE BRITISH SCHOOL.

a few in these latter days have assiduously sought and
gained reputation through the agency of the microscope
applied to the investigation of organisms. The reve
lations of this instrument came as a great tide in 1840
that wafted Goodsir and many others to havens of dis
covery, and those proud positions in science which
many seek but few obtain. Though Germany took the

lead, many able cultivators occupied English ground.
Ranking with the London school, and early in the

ffield, Sharpey,* Bowman, Carpenter, Gulliver, Busk,

Simon, and Paget may be worthily cited as represent
ing every department of the cellular theory ; whilst in
the Edinburgh school Martin Barry and Allen Thom

son shone in embryology, and J. Hughes Bennett in

both physiology and pathology, and Goodsir traversed
a wider range human and comparative. Of late years
the list of those who have aided the cause of cell-inter

pretation, or added to the general stores of histological
facts and hypotheses, is greatly extended ; indeed of

     * Dr. Sharpey lectured on anatomy in Edinburgh from 1832 to 1836.
He systematically used the microscope for the purpose of illustrating his
anatomical course. Previous to 1830, he made his valuable observations on

" Cilia," and used Woollaston's doublet l-20th of an inch focus. Dr. Allen

Thomson followed Sharpey's method of teaching, and his embryologieal re
searches demanded the use of the microscope. Goodsir had an Oberhaeuser to
aid him in his inquiries into the development of the Invertebrata of the
Firth, and also the occasional use of Dr. John Reid's microscope, and one of
Charles Chevalier's manufacture belonging to the writer, and probably also that
of Dr. Martin Barry.

   t Mr. Gulliver's translation of Gerber's Anatomy in 1842, and his own

notes and observations and defence of the English School of Anatomists,
served an excellent purpose. In editing the works of William Hewson, F.R.S.,
for the Sydenham Society in 1846, he indicated that Hewson had nearly anti
cipated Schwann's discovery of the cell as far back as 1773.

THE CELL AND THE PHILOSOPHERS.  89

the advocates and partisans of the new doctrines carried
to a legitimate issue, or possibly somewhere beyond, it
may be truly said, "the cry is still, They come."

     Like all the early observers of " the cell," Goodsir
met with difficulties. Granted a cell, with its walls,

its contents, its nucleus and nucleolus, what then?
Did the formation of cells depend on an endogenous

or exogenous growth, a fissiparous division, or a gem
miferous thrusting forth of new cells or materials ?
Theory often ran in advance of observation, and Good-

sir, too anxious for a foremost place in the race of com
petition, went boldly onwards ; for, with too many of
that period, instead of comparing microscopic observa
tion with the data furnished by the test-tube and the

philosophical balance, the desire was to be able to cry
" Eureka I" before your neighbour. This mode of pro

cedure could excite no surprise ; histology was an
almost untrodden field, the explorers of which were
enthusiastic and impressionable. The new develop
mental anatomy attracted dilettanti and idealists,
as well as the legitimists in science, and came to be
viewed in the highest light as an Archimedean lever to

the biological world -- a consummation devoutly to be

wished by the physicist, physiologist, and positivist,
all of whom took part in the discussion of a subject
that seemed specially to concern the anatomist alone.
The geometrician saw the fundamental form of nature

represented in the cell -- a hollow spheroid or ellipsoid ;
the physiologist would have it that all the processes

engaged in the vital functions rest upon a combination,

'JO goodsir's observations.

recombination, or multiplication of cells; and Comte,
rising with his philosophy still higher, found in the
life of the single cell a type and the source of not only
the functions of individual man, but also of the grand

Stre-- humanity. Even the lover of the aesthetical,

struck by the histological elements, both in their origin
and coalesced functions, glorified them into a form of
beauty charmingly consonant with his beau ideal of
life, and his higher aspirations towards the primitive
aesthetic standard. Goodsir, no less speculative than
scientific, was not the least conspicuous supporter of
the new doctrines that bid fair, at one time, to make
the cell the whole science of life.

     Of the lectures delivered in the theatre of the Royal
College of Surgeons in the summer of 1842 and winter
1842-43, a portion was devoted to the considera
tion of practical subjects -- ex. gr. surgical pathology ;
another portion embraced anatomical and physiological
questions of current or rather special interest to the
younger members of his audience, and were afterwards

woven into a work--"Anatomical and Pathological

Observations," (vide vol. ii. p. 387). The prominent
doctrines enunciated by Goodsir in these lectures mainly
rested on the existence of centres of force connected
with the nutritive and reproductive changes in the
normal and pathological processes. The term " centres
of nutrition," or " germinal centres," as employed by
him, obviously possessed a similar signification to that
which at this time is attached by Dr. Beale to his
" germinal matter," and by various anatomists of the

ON CELL GROWTH AND CHANGES.  91

most modern German school to their masses of nuc

leated protoplasm. The allocation to these definite
" centres," not only of the forces engaged in the nutri
tion of the textures, but in the reproduction of new

forms both in normal and pathological processes -- a

doctrine which has been in its special relations to

pathology so systematically pursued by Virchow and

his disciples --was unmistakably present in the mind

of Goodsir, and also articulately expressed in the patho
logical papers in the series now referred to. This, it

must be remembered, was at a period when the origin
of new cell-forms by a process of precipitation, or mole
cular aggregation in a fluid blastema or exudation, was
the doctrine prevalent in the schools.

     Of the part which the nucleated cell plays in the
processes of nutrition, secretion, and reproduction,
normal and otherwise, it may perhaps suffice to refer
the reader to the paper on " Centres of Nutrition," to
that on " Absorption and Ulceration, and the Struc
tures engaged in these Processes," and " On the Process
of Ulceration in Articular Cartilages ;" to the memoir
on " Secreting Structures," and the short essays on the
" Structure and Economy of Bone," and on the "Mode of
Reproduction after the Death of the Shaft of a Long
Bone." Corroborative evidence may also be met with in
his memoir " On Diseased Conditions of the Intestinal
Glands," and the paper on the " Structure and Patho
logy of the Kidney and Liver." In these various essays
the presence of the products of secretion within cells ;
the increase which takes place in the size of the cells,

 92 VIRCHOW AND GOODSIR.

 and the multiplication of their nuclei when influenced
by morbid changes ; the rupture of these enlarged pro
liferating cells, and the discharge of their nucleated
contents ; the destruction, scooping out, and solution of
textures by the action of the forces residing in these
new formed structures ; the presence of soft nucleated
masses in the lacunae and Haversian canals of bone,
and the part which they play in the absorption of
bone ; and the changes which take place in nucleated

cells in connection with cyst-formation --all testify to

the largeness of his observation of cell-life, both phy
siologically and pathologically.

     In the first of these memoirs not only does he advo

cate the importance of the cell as a centre of nutrition,
but argues that the organism is subdivided into a num
ber of departments, " each containing a certain number
of simple or developed cells, all of which hold certain
relations to one central or capital cell around which
they are grouped." This idea has since been freely
made use of by Professor Virchow, though, it must be
admitted, without a due acknowledgment of the quarter

in which it was originally stated, and it has obviously

influenced many of his physiological and pathological
speculations. This reticence is the more strange, as
Virchow dedicated his work on Cellular Pathologic
to the Edinburgh professor in the following compli

mentary terms :-- " To John Goodsir, F.E.S. etc., as

one of the earliest and most acute observers of cell-life,

both physiological and pathological, this work on
Cellular Pathology is dedicated, as a slight testimony

                   VIRCHOW AT FAULT.                  93

of his deep respect and sincere admiration, by the
author." As Professor Virchow has travelled over

much of the ground that had been previously
cultivated by Goodsir, it is no less remarkable than

disappointing to find in Virchow's volume of 433

pages but one reference to Goodsir, and that in con
nection with an observation the merit of which might
be more fairly ascribed to Dr. Martin Barry. This is

scanty   civility to  a scientific  confrere          whom he has
called  " one of the  most acute    observers
                                                      of cell-life," --

one whose labours he has availed himself of, and whose

opinions and words he has occasionally adopted.

In his paper on the "Morbid Changes affecting

the Glandulae Aggregate of the Ileum in Fever,"

Goodsir (vol. ii.  npa. tu3r7e7--) dveizs.cr"ibtehse  these changes to be
of the following                                      development of cells

within the constituent vesicles of the patches to such

an extent as at last to burst them, or cause their

 solution ; the continued increase in the number of the

 cells proceeding from as many centres as there are
 vesicles in the path ; the conglomeration of the whole

into one mass above the sub-mucous and under the

mucous membrane, the distension of the latter, and

the necessary ulceration and sloughing of the mass

arising from this circumstance." This is clearly Vir

chow's "proliferation of cells." Then, in p. 390 of the

same volume, Goodsir, speaking of simple or developed

cells holding certain relations to one central or capital

cell, says--" It would appear that from this central

cell all the other cells of its department derive their

1)4 RIVALS OP THE CELL.

origin. It is the mother of all within its own ter
Ifritory."
            the reader will be at the pains to compare

the whole paragraph from which this passage has been

quoted with a paragraph at p. 14 of Mr. Chance's

translation of Virchow, that terminates with the word
" cell-territory " (zellen-territorien), he cannot fail to

see the close following or copying of Goodsir. Vir

chow, however, makes no reference to the source from

which he has obtained his cell-territory.*

Various opinions on the nature of the cell have

passed current during the last thirty years, and almost

each quinquenniad has had a theory of its own. Thus

Schwann looked upon the vitelline membrane as the

outer cell-wall, the yelk substance the contents, the

germinal vesicle the nucleus, and the macula or

macula the nucleolus or nucleoli. Wagner and Henle

regarded the germinal vesicle as the true cell, and the
other parts of the ovum as of the nature of superadded
structures. Goodsir and Virchow held the cell to be

the ultimate morphological element in which there is

any manifestation of life, and that the seat of real
action must not be transferred to any point beyond
the cell. Still finer distinctions have been drawn of

late years, and much said on "plasms" and "proto
plasms " or " plasmodiums " as rivals of the cell. The

observations of the eminent phytologist Hugo Von
Mohl on the " Primordial Utricle," Cienkowsky's views

     * This question was fully discussed in the British Medical Journal
(Jan. 12, 1861), in a leading article -- "Cellular Pathology, its Present
Position "-- being a review of Virchow 's work as translated by Chance. The

[assays referred to in the text above are placed in parallel columns.

THE PHILOSOPHY OF MATTER.  95

on the monads, espoused by Professor Huxley in his

lectures on the Invertebrata, and Professor Haeckel's
" Protogenes," may be cited in proof of the opinions

afloat and pertaining to the ultimate atoms of organ
ized bodies. The protogenes of the Jena professor is

described as "simply a minute drop of living jelly,

simpler even than a white blood-corpuscle, having no

nucleus, no nucleolus, no contracting vesicle -- ' no
nothing' in fact, except the property of flowing in

various directions, and of protruding innumerable fine

processes or pseudopodia." Here is a living substance

devoid of all but molecular structure, yet showing by

its pseudopodia the actions attributed to the lower
forms of animal life-- ex. gr. the Amoeba. The ques
Iftion will now arise,
                        Haeckel's views be admitted," is

plasm endowed with a formative and selective power

in the building up and the disintegration and decay of

organisms ? Has science revealed a potential or pan

theistic force -- the universal Archeus --pervading every
form of organized matter ? Is it to be inferred that

life is originally stamped on the amorphous and

elementary molecule, that the molecule is advanced to

a distinct and tangible organization in the cell as in

the amorphozoa -- the perfection of tissue being a

further process of the cell in its entirety- -- anatomical

and physiological ? However this may be -- and all

that pertains to molecular morphology* is likely to

   "A* Sketch of a Philosophy -- Part II. --Matter and Molecular Morpho

logy," published by Williams and Norgate, 1868, will furnish abundant

materials to those interested in these inquiries. The chemical or elementary

96 DOGMA AND DISBELIEF.

undergo a thorough inquiry --Dr. Macvicar and others
have space and verge enough in determining the in
tricate philosophy of matter. In all speculations rest
ing on molecular and cellular growth, it may be well

to remember that the dogma of to-day may come to
rank with the disbelief of to-morrow, or even be clas
sified with an antediluvian past; and it is not less
necessary to keep in view what history has oft re
corded and repeated, but in vain, that the eccentricities
of one age may become the wisdom of the next.

synthesis, rather than the anatomical and physiological relations of molecules,
are discussed in this remarkable brochure.

                     CHAPTER VI.

The Domicile of the Goodsirs, its Peculiarities and Attractions --
      " Noctes Lothianae" -- A New Curatorship -- Salnionidao -- " Sar-
      cina Ventriculi " and other Inquiries --Demonstrator and Chief
      Curator.--His Theories Modified.

The domicile of the Goodsirs in No. 21 Lothian Street,

adjacent to the University of Edinburgh, was approach

ed by a public flight of stairs, to which six different

families had access, and consisted of the half of a top

flat or storey, with attics --rented at £17 a-year! In
character it ranked with the dwellings of petty trades

men, and though the rooms were small they accommo

dated two or three brothers Goodsir, Edward Forbes,

George E. Day -- all very tall men, also their visitors,

and a housekeeper or cook, and two lads who acted as

anatomical assistants in the museum and as grooms-in-

waiting at home. Man was not the sole occupant ;
other living things-- biped, quadruped, manuped, and

nulliped --had their share in the fortunes of the house

hold. " Jacko " the monkey,* " Coco " the tortoise,

* "Jacko" was a droll customer, with a keen eye to his physical com

forts. Looking upwards in the scale of being, or "aping his betters," he

would have a vapour-bath, and in a mode that indicated neither propriety nor

decorum. Watching his opportunity when the pot of boiling potatoes was

removed from the fire, he used to warm his hips over the steaming vapours.

Mr. Day having caught him in the act, vowed he would eat no more potatoes

unless presented in their dry jackets. After Goodsir observed the parasite

VOL. I.  H

98 "JACKO" PLAYS TRICKS.

" Caesar " the dog, " Doodle " the cat, and occasionally
guinea-pigs and urchins, had their freedom of run in the
establishment ; the birds were caged, and the great eagle
stood Prometheus-like on his Caucasus ; whilst shut up
in the attics, or claiming part of the cook's precincts, and
in improvised aquaria or vivaria, were frogs, fishes,
molluscs, echinoderms, and various odds and ends of

Invertebrata. These animals were nearly all meant for

physiological observation, and occasionally furnished the
anatomists with a blood-globule, a muscular fibre, and
ciliated epithelium. As the ranks of this living motley

fell away -- for amidst such a marine, aerial, and land
population life flowed and ebbed, and oft departed --

the organisms, on ceasing their physiological functions,
obtained the obsequies of the scalpel, the injecting-
syringe, the spirit-jar, or macerating -tub ; and, as
mementoes of once familiar faces, skins and crania for

conservation might be seen hanging like banners on
the outward wall or attic's roof. This semi-menagerie
and its mortuary relics, conveying to more senses than

on the gill of the haddock, Mr. Day came to have doubts as to the validity

of fish in general ; and as haddocks and potatoes were staple dishes in the

establishment, his gastronomic squeamishness could only be allayed by Good-

sir's assurance of the parasitic freedom of every fish, and the cook's declaration
that " Jacko" was chained up during the preparation of the "gentlemen's
dinner. "

"Jacko," in a roving humour, descended by the spout on the outside

wall to a lower storey, and finding the kitchen-window open walked in, to the

great dismay of the female inmate. Knowing nothing of the curious house

hold above, and being much engrossed, as nearly all Scotch folk were at the

time, with the threatened disruption in the Kirk, Mrs.  looked upon

the intruder, whose presence was as mysterious as his person was horrid in her

e"yeths,e  as "spiritually  uncanny;"     nay,   as "the chains were broken,"  had not
           thousand years   " ended, and   here  was " Beelzebub himsel' ! "

A CHAOS OF CONCEITS.  99

one decided anatomical impressions, bore a faint resem
blance to a portion of the monastery of the Capuchins
in the Piazza Barberini at Rome, where, however, the

genus homo, and not the genera animalium, constituted
a more degrading demonstration. Along with house
hold furniture, boxes, big tomes, portfolios, fossils,

geological and archaeological specimens, were strewed
about the rooms ; the finer sorts of things occupied
shelves ; and these again variously set off by dried
starfishes, shells, trophies of the chase, meerschaums,
and the artistic or grotesque fancies of Forbes. As in
discriminate as the Paris chiffonniers, the Goodsirs
fraternity hoarded up organic forms and their special

idols, till they realised what appeared to bystanders a
chaos of natural history and domesticity only to be
surpassed by the oddest curiosity-shop in the Cowgate
of the ancient city. With the owners, however,
there was method in the midst of strange confusion,
besides much pleasantry in the conceit, and a kind of
aesthetic halo that crowned all the dust and cobwebs

of their domicile.

      Men born in the purple or nursed in the lap of
comfort have no notion of the homes and habits of the
student whose science is his stay and staff of life. The

above sketch, though derived from a special instance
presenting peculiarities apart from the general tone of

things, will nevertheless, in its broader features, indicate
the status quo prevailing thirty years ago in Edinburgh
qudad men of philosophic aims unblessed with pecu
niary resources. The Goodsirs and Forbes had been

 100 PHILOSOPHERS IN THEORY.

 trained or educated for a profession, but their natural
 habitat was science, and to that they gravitated with
 out counting the cost or the sacrifice. They were
 like Sir C. Bell, who, in reference to his first settling

Iin London, said -- " was as romantic as any young

 man could be, though the prevailing cast of my mind
 was to gain celebrity and independence by science, and

perhaps this was the most extravagant of all." It was

not choice or eccentricity, but the hard lines of the world,
that drove them to set up their " household gods " in
 the attics of Lothian Street. Philosophers in theory,
 and full of adolescent hopes as to merit having its due
reward, they had yet to learn that philosophy seldom,

if ever, pays its own expenses in this country. Science

they found to be the direst of economists, imperative in
its demands for books, instruments, and other agencies,
and more imperative still of brain-power, health, and
vitality; yet the earnings it yielded in a highly
materialistic age were but as Roman denarii compared
with the " old Spanish dollar " and the fruits of com

merce.

      These naturalists had to trust to their brains and

fingers, and these so actively and deftly occupied did
not bring in £100 a-year. They were citizens of a

free country--the wealthiest in the world -- a country

that hails scientific discovery as a mighty contribution
to the national glory, yet seems to be unmindful of the
arduous steps which have led to the consummation of
the national boast. They loved science for its own
sake, and the nulla dies sine linea of their lives was

SCIENCE NOT RECOGNISED.  101

their chief solace, heightened by a pleasant intercourse
with men who, like themselves, could dine cheerily at
a tavern for half-a-crown a head, or on haddocks,

potatoes, and whisky-toddy at home -- even without

the paternum salinum*

                   " Vivitur parvo bene, cui paternum
                        Splendet in mensa tenui salinum ;
                        Nee leves somnos timor aut cupido
                                Sordidus aufert."

England, with all her Reform Bills, had not come to
recognise science, however ably and earnestly culti
vated by her sons. Thus Harry Goodsir went out
with Sir John Franklin to the Polar Seas in 1845, not
in the capacity to which everybody knew he was cre

dited, and for which not a dozen persons could be found
in Britain so well suited, but ostensibly as assistant

surgeon, whose duties could have been discharged
equally well by hundreds of men. The Government

were afraid to speak of a paid naturalist ! With such
an example at headquarters, the Universities pleaded
poverty for their non-recognition of science ; and to
descend lower, neither the tribunes nor the people
afforded encouragement to the pursuit of natural
history. Forbes might well record -- "The mass bestow
more kicks than halfpence on science."

     * The Goodsirs were not without the silver emblems of success in medical

practice, and a very handsome cup presented to the patriarch "John"

betokened the high esteem in which he was held by grateful patients. The

" horned lantern," however, carried by "Grandfather John "to light up the

dark paths of Fife, was quite as significant an heir-loom of the Goodsirs, and it
stood on the mantelpiece in Lothian Street as a balance to a quaint Manx tan
kard -- possibly the heir-loom of Edward Forbes.

102 "OUR PALACE AT EDINBURGH."

     Harry Goodsir designated No. 21 Lothian Street
" The Barracks Edward Forbes, in his humbler strain,
named it " The Attic," or in his higher flights, " Our
Palace at Edinburgh." " The Barracks " and " Our Pa
lace " seem very antipodal, but the estimate formed by
these two men of their locus in quo was correct and
characteristic enough. There was all the life, indivi
duality, and colouring of a barracks in their domicile,
from whence also the " Arch-Magus " and " Triangles "
issued their edicts, and in kingly mood basked in the
sunshine of their own enjoyment. The court-circle of
" Our Palace " was highly select, and none but men of
status in science, literature, and art could obtain an
entree. The choice spirits of Alma Mater assem
bled in Lothian Street to talk and joke and expound
the argument, and many an encounter of steel against
steel clashed under the Goodsir attics. There the ob
server could have noted in full measure that which
Benjamin Franklin had spoken of in his time as pecu
liar to men educated in Edinburgh -- a disputatious
tone, a proneness to keen discussion, with much loqua
city and occasional dogmatism ; there also, as accom
paniments of a hearty symposium, were skirmishes
of wit and repartee, along with the more technical
and scientific debate, not unfrequently setting the

table in a roar. In scanning the panorama of

the medical school, with its moving figures and
scenes of life, in commenting upon the wars
of the hospital surgeons and the contending
claims of the physiologists, " The Barracks " found

                                                                                                                                       A LAUGH AT "OLD FOGIES."  103

a                                                                                                                                      gossip, fun, and laughter. The "old fogies," with
                        a
                                                                          a                                                            cocked hats, stiff ruffles, and gold-headed staffs, had
                                                                                                                                       disappeared, even the last of the Hamiltons -- the great
                                                                                                                                      ;
                                                                                                                                       obstetrician who styled himself "Junior" James in his
                                                                                          a it,                                        seventies. Relics of the past, if such a term be appli
                                                                                                                                       cable to humanities, were still visible--e.g. the senile

                                                                                                                                       professor, whose course, for any good got from
                                                                                                                                       might have been Sanscrit readings instead of " Cullen's
                                                                                                                                       Lines," the hour being filled up with his coughing, and
                                                                                                                                       hemming, and the uproarious sounds of his class'; the
                                                                                                                                       evergreen tertius professor who unconcernedly at noon
                                                                                                                                       ate cranberry tarts in the midst of grinning students at

                                                                                                                                          small pastry-cook's, and with digestion unimpaired
                                                                                                                                       the next hour read his grandfather's essays on Hydro
                                                                                                                                       cephalus as part of an anatomical course; and the
                                                                                                                                       quaint botanist and would-be philosopher who gave
                                                                                                                                       lectures in sunless cul-de-sac of an old-fashioned

                                                                                                                                       square, and whose stock-in-trade was beggarly ac
                                                                                                                                       count of unbleached paper-covers, enclosing tattered

                                                                                                                                       leaves and stems, and whose " fresh specimens for the
                                                                                                                                       class " were taken from the crown of his hat, once

                                                                                                                                       gay and lofty beaver, but after countless years of ser

                                                                                                                                       vice had become shapeless, napless, brown, and greasy,
                                                                                                                                       not the less in character, however, with the colour,

                                                                                                                                       dirt, and decadence of the man, his premises, and his
                                                                                                                                       prelections. How John Goodsir used to hold his sides,

                                                                                                                                       and Harry make the welkin ring with laughter, when
                                                                                                                                       more finished pictures than the writer's sketches were
                                                                                                                                       presented for their recognition and amusement word-
                                                                                                                                       painting hardly sufficing without the imitative man

104 LIFE IN "THE BARRACKS."

ner and style, to depict the eccentric representations of

the medical school.

     Of the men who assembled at " The Barracks," note

only can be taken of a few* of them in this sketch. It

was no small treat to listen to Dr. Knox on his favoured
subjects ; his African experience of the Dutch Boer in
contiguity with the agile Kaffir, or his special discours-
ings upon the history of race -- his taking up for the
nonce the credited unity of species, as biblically re
corded, to show up, with greater force and a keener
prophetic air, the racial divergences, dissensions, and

antagonisms. It was not less rich to see Knox and

Dr. Samuel Brown engaged in a passage at arms, be
the subject of their controversy the atoms of Democri-
tus, the vagaries of the " Illuminati," or the philosophy
of Leibnitz. Within " Our Palace," history, ancient
and mediaeval, was fully canvassed and weighed in the
balance of modern thought ; and as every man con
vened to its tapestried reception-room had more or
less of a speciality of pursuit, he got the opportunity
of playing his favourite part, not seldom incited
thereto by the quiet interrogations of John Goodsir, or
the seductive leadings of Forbes. There John H. Bal
four, redundant of botanic life, then as now, compared
notes with the Manx herbalist; there John Goodsir

     * Among the distinguished foreigners who ascended the long flight of stairs
in Lothian Street, mention may be made of the famed Agassiz, who made his
visit there after the British Association Meeting at Glasgow (Sept. 1840).
Forbes wrote to a friend -- "Agassiz was in ecstasies with the living urchins,

star-fishes, and ophiurae I showed him, and confessed he had never seen them

alive."

MINSTRELS AND PHILOSOPHERS.  105

and David Page resuscitated the quarries of Cornceres,
the synods of Fife, and the bickerings of St. Andrews;

there Forbes and J. H. Bennett revived their students'

days, and sang their students' songs, of which the fol
lowing stanza, part of an " Oineromathic " song written

by Forbes, may be quoted :--

                " Then whilst we live we'll spend our hours
                       'Mid all that's bright and fair ;

                 In learning's fields we'll gather flowers,
                      To wreathe in Beauty's hair ;

                  For wisdom's hoary locks we'll twine
                    A crown of myrtle and of vine.
                          Hurrah ! hurrah for the Rosy Band,
                        Hurrah for the Holly Tree !"*

      Other minstrels of note visited the palace, and
added to the charms of its many- coloured society by
their presence, their songs, or their conversation.

Among these may be mentioned Theodore Martin,
of " Bon Gaultier " ballad fame, the able classic
and man of letters, whose visits were more For-
besian ; James Ballantine, the author of " The Gaber-
lunzie Wallet," whose poetic muse partook of the
strain of Burns, and whose heart is still warmer than

the sentiments of his songs ; and Professor Blackie,
exuberant in nationality and Homer's poesy, and
keenly antagonistic of democracy. In " Our Palace "
Dr. Day, afterwards Professor of Anatomy and Medi
cine at St. Andrews, was a resident, who oft displayed
his skill of fence and facetiousness to the delight of

    * The " Rosy Band " and " Holly " formed part of the insignia of " The

Brotherhood of the Friends of Truth."

106 NOCTES LOTHIAN^.

George Wilson, who possessed a fine susceptibility
of the humorous j there Dobie, the artist and designer
of the beautiful " Oineromathic " emblem given on
a previous page, enjoyed the Punch-like cartoons
of natural history by the arch-magus; there Dr.
Samuel Brown, with his bright, penetrating, and trans-
mutative character, had his outpourings of wondrous
talk, charming to listen to, along with his analysis of
the new chemical philosophy then dawning upon his

brain--a philosophy of which everybody believed he
was one day to be its high priest ; there John Reid,
in rubicund glow and fun, chaffed Harry Goodsir for

assuming to have made the discovery of a separate
sexual system in the barnacle, when both the male
and female animals knew the fact, and had enjoyed
the loves pertaining to the fact, thousands of years

ago !

     The Noctes Ambrosiance --fiction or fact --found an

historian of bold utterances who amused the readers
of Blackwood with political gossip and fierce partisan
ship ; the Noctes Lothiance were of bondfide character,
and breathed less of the oracular and denouncing, and
more of the rational and philosophic. Forbes, writing
from London, might well revert to the "tranquil,
merry, and philosophical days and nights," spent in
" Our Palace," and long to sing his favourite songs to
an applauding audience. The writer, with his feeble
pen, has no pretensions to record the Memorabilia of
these Goodsir and Forbes " Noctes," he can but take a
glance at those inspiriting scenes in which he played a

FORBES LOVES THE ATTICS.  107

humble part ; and conscious that such examples of
" feasts of reason and flo wings of soul " can have no
revival to him on this side of the Stygian shore,
claims indulgence for looking back upon them, much
as the Eastern traveller homeward bound casts a

lingering view upon the classic lands disappearing
below the horizon, and bids them a last adieu.

     Edward Forbes, when cruising in the Mediter
ranean on board of Her Majesty's ship " Beacon," from
April 1841 to November 1842, wrote to Goodsir from
various parts of the Eastern Archipelago, noting the
droll creatures brought up by the dredge, and adding

Iin one of his letters -- " often wished that you had

been with me, as the structure of many of these un
presentable creatures would require your hand and
knife to work them out." Nor did Forbes forget " the
Brethren," to whom he sent love and greetings in every
letter. Neither the ruined cities of Lycia, nor dredging
the iEgean, nor contemplating the classic and biblical
lands of the East, could efface his love for " the Order,"

and the delights of Edinburgh. Thus he wrote from

the coast of Asia Minor--" I often heartily wish myself

once more sitting over a tumbler of toddy, munching
a Finnan haddy in our palace in Lothian Street."
What charms existed in that top flat of a dingy
thoroughfare compared with Eastern skies, Alpine
scenery, and the grand historical ? Forbes' heart was
responsive to its pole ; humanity carried the day, and
Goodsir's attic and social intercourse stood forth as

palatial and glorious ! On his return Forbes visited

108 A NEW CURATORSHIP.

Edinburgh to arrange with the Goodsirs for the ana
tomical display of his collection as illustrative of the
zoology of the iEgean Sea.

     In June 1842; Goodsir was asked to go north to
the Dornoch Firth to examine its zoology, so as to give

in a report, and to furnish evidence in an important
trial about salmon stake-nets. He was accompanied by
Mr. James Wilson, and enjoyed his visit exceedingl)'.

     In January 1843 John Goodsir was asked by
Forbes to go before the Justiciary Court of Edinburgh,

and save Mr. Yarrell the trouble of leaving London, and
there explain the difference between a sprat and a
herring ; an anatomical question resting on the
number of vertebrae* -- the sprat having forty-eight, the

herring fifty-six -- the position of the ventral fin and

serrated abdominal line in the sprat, the carinated but
not serrated belly in the herring, and other minor

points --as Dr. Neill considered sprats grew into her
rings and that difference of vertebrae was a mere dif

ference of age.
     On the 12th May 1843 Professor Syme wrote from

the University to Goodsir, offering him the curatorship
" of the collection that has been or may be formed,
through the means' placed at the disposal of the

Medical Faculty -- salary £150 a-year, the appointment

     * Some fishermen of Lord John Scott's had been summoned for netting
herrings when fishing for sprats in the Firth of Forth, hence the trial before
the court. Lord John remarked on Dr. Neill's opinion, that he never heard
Methuselah had more vertebras in his back-bone when he died than when he
was a little boy, and that he was sure it was a ruse on the part of the old
doctor in favour of the cormorants of Canonmills.

THREE BROTHERS -- GOODSIR.  109

to be renewed annually ; the curator to work five
hours a-day in the museum, and five days each week."
He was engaged to prepare a series of dissections
illustrative of comparative anatomy and physiology,
with a set of additional specimens of surgical patho
logy. As the emoluments were greater, and the
position more desirable, than that which he occupied,
he at once accepted Mr. Syme's offer. The salary of
£150 a-year for the best man in Scotland, and perhaps

the only man throughout the length and breadth of
the land fit for the work, will sound strange to English
ears ; the fault rested not with Mr. Syme or his col
leagues, for the funds of the University were not at
their disposal. The College of Surgeons received Good-

sir's resignation on the 16th May, and unanimously
recorded "their perfect satisfaction with the great
ability, faithfulness, and zeal with which he had dis
charged his duties, and of the very great and manifest
improvement which the collection had undergone since
it had been placed in his charge." His brother Harry

succeeded him in the curatorship, and entered on his

duties on the 31st July of the same year. It is worthy

of remark, as illustrative of a family trait and special
aptitude, that when Harry Goodsir vacated the curator-
ship in April 1845 for the Franklin polar expedition, he
was succeeded by a younger brother, Archie, who acted
for some months till the college could find a suitable

person -- Archie himself being bent on studying at

Leipsic and Vienna ; so that John, Harry, and Archie
Goodsir successively occupied the position of curator

110 THE SALMON QUESTION.

to the Edinburgh College of Surgeons between the
spring of 1841 and the autumn of 1845, and did their
work well.

     In the summer and autumn of 1842, and onwards

to the spring of 1843, Goodsir had much commu
nication with Mr. A. Young, the Duke of Sutherland's
salmon-fisher at Invershin, near Bonar Bridge, relative
to the development and characters of the salmon in its
progressive stages of growth till it became a mature fish.
Mr. Young sent numerous specimens for Goodsir's

inspection and preservation. A grilse was caught on

the 21st of June going down to the sea that weighed
9 lbs., into the fins of which a copper wire was twisted ;
when the same fish was caught on the 5th of April of
the following year it weighed 1 4 lbs. Another that
was marked on the 9th January 1842, about 4 lbs.
in weight, was caught on the 14 th July, and weighed
9 lbs. Several smolts that had been marked by cutting
off the dead-fin of the back were sent in their grilse state.
The first of these smolts grown into grilse came early in
the season and was only small in size; a second was 5 lbs. ;
a third was 7 lbs. The numbers forwarded to Edin

burgh Mr. Young hoped would satisfy Goodsir as to the
growth of the salmon from the smolt to the grilse and

full fish. In February 1843 quantities of spawn were

also sent to Goodsir for examination and experiment.
Dr. Knox and others had sought information of Mr.
Young, but without success, as he wished his views to
remain a secret till he could furnish more abundant

proofs ; moreover, he was partial to Goodsir following

CHEMICO-PHYSIOLOGICAL,  111

out the inquiry in extenso, and dealing honourably by

him ; for in one of his letters he says to Goodsir--
" You have the right end of the tether, if you hold on

fair." The various specimens John received were sent
off to his brother Harry at Anstruther to stuff in his
usual way for preservation --John cautioning him to
do them well, as so many people were interested in the
business, and to be sure to keep the wire in the fin.

Considering the great interest attached to the subject,

it is remarkable that Goodsir made no use of Mr.
Young's strong " tether," and that he left no papers or
memoranda indicative of strengthening it. As late

as the 27th October 1855 Mr. Young asks Goodsir if

he had written anything on the history and habits of
the salmon, as he had promised years ago. He had
thought of writing on salmon and fishes in general,

and frequently visited an Edinburgh fishmonger's shop
for aid to his work ; but this, like many good and

useful plans, had fallen through when no longer pos
sessed of health and strength to do justice to his in

tentions.

      Goodsir 's many-sided nature led him occasionally,

and not always wisely, to wander from his own
domain. Not content with the enlargement of the
" cellular theory," and the various subjects engaging
his attention in the museum, he took a fancy to
chemico-physiological inquiries, and hoped, in con
junction with Dr. George Wilson, to give a course of
lectures on this, an almost untrodden field since the

days of the great French Revolution. Possibly his

112  SARCINA VENTRICULI.

 thoughts ran in the direction that had yielded such
 large promise to Lavoisier, Laplace, and Bichat. For
 Lavoisier not only created chemistry, but explained
 the nature of the chemical phenomena in organisms ;
 and he and Laplace were the first to show that the
 physico-chemical actions taking place in living bodies
 rested for their manifestation on the ordinary laws of

physics and chemistry ; whilst Bichat crowned the edi
fice of the new physiology by his Anatomic Generate,
in which he sought to establish for each special tissue
a physiological property of its own. Dr. Wilson was
very sanguine as to the results of a co-operation with
 Goodsir, whom he styled " a noble fellow, a most ex
cellent and original inquirer, and one of the most
amiable and lovable of men." The anatomist, how

ever, did not find time to carry out his wishes ; it is

doubtful if he ever made a beginning.

     His contributions to the different societies in Edin

burgh (1841-1844) show how earnestly he laboured
for a front place in the ranks, hoping by all laudable
methods to put himself in a favourable position for
any more lucrative or substantial appointment which
might cast up. One of these contributions relating to
the Sarcina ventriculi in cases of pyrosis or " water-

brash "-- a pretty discovery of itself for any man to
make --helped to disclose much that had been obscure

and enigmatical in digestion. The perversity of the
stomachic functions, caused by the presence of organ
isms which no gastric juice could control, was viewed
as strangely curious. The Sarcina attracted most

ENTOPHYTA AND ENTOZOA.                                            113

  attention in England, where stomach complaints

  disturb the gastronomical "John Bull," as the "sair

  head " does the plodding Scot, and " smotherings about
  the heart " affect the Irish Celt. The discovery at

  tracted many by its novelty, though parasitical growth
  had for some time been a matter of discussion. In

  this country, Professor Owen (1832) detected the
  presence of a greenish vegetable mould in the lungs of
  the Phcenicopterus, and was led to infer that internal

  parasites embrace entophyta as well as entozoa.

  Italian, French, and German observers, and notably

  Meynier, Schonlein, and Langenbeck, had written on

  parasitic growths ; and Gruby of Vienna (Valentin's
  Repertorium, 1841) had given a complete history of
  them, bestowing special attention on the crusts of the

  Tin ea favosa made up of Mycodermata. Hughes Ben-
* nett in Edinburgh, Rayer and Cazenave in Paris, con

  firmed Gruby's views. Mr. George Busk gave an
  excellent review in the Microscopic Journal (December
  1841) of all that had been done, and embodied his
  own researches with so that parasitic formation was

  one of the questions of the day when Goodsir dis
  covered the stomachic enemy.* As Sarcina affects all

  phases of life, from Lazarus at the gate to Dives in the
  palace, Goodsir became involved in large amount of

  correspondence with doctors and patients soliciting

  information and curative means. The history of the

      * If Edinburgh was first made acquainted with the Sarcina, so was its

   Philosophical Journal the first to convey to the world, in 1819, Sir Herschel's
   researches on the hypo-sulphites -- salts of such significance in counteracting

   the parasite.

         VOL.
I.
                      it,

                      I

                                                    a
                                                              J.

114 THE ACTION OF THE NUCLEATED CELL.

case gave him position and authority as a minute and
accurate observer in little explored fields, and where
natural history pursuits afforded light to strictly

pathological questions.

    In May 1844 Goodsirwas appointed Demonstrator
of Anatomy to Professor Monro. In October 1845

he furnished the curators of the University Museum
with a long report of the progress made during his
period of office as their assistant, and offering large sug
gestions for the further improvement and application
of the museum to the wants of the different medical
professors in their teachings. Two months sub
sequently (December 1845), on the resignation of Mr.
Mackenzie, the Medical Faculty appointed him the
curator of the entire museum. As demonstrator and

curator he had now attained an excellent position.
During this session he gave a course of twelve lectures
to the Edinburgh Philosophical Institution on Human
Physiology, not without a protest being made by Pro
fessor Monro against his doing so.

      The work done by Goodsir during these five
laborious years (1840-45), and mainly recorded in the
second volume, will speak for itself, and no doubt
will receive a just interpretation at the hands of men
of science. His papers on " Centres of Nutrition " and
" Secreting Structures " are among the most valuable

and original of the series. In the first-named he

awards the initiative steps and discovery of the parent
cell to his friend Martin Barry. His numerous
observations, extending over a wide range of glandular

         " GERMINAL MEMBRANE."                        115

structure, fully confirmed the idea that cells are the

structures which perform the process of secretion, and

that the functions of nutrition and secretion are essen

tially alike in their nature. His own estimate of the

paper read to the Royal Society of Edinburgh was

Iconveyed to his father thus :--" have proved in it

that secretion is exactly the same function as nutrition,

and therefore regulated by the same laws." Goodsir's

views on the nucleated cell as the great agent in

absorption, nutrition, and secretion, have been gener

ally accepted, and now constitute established data in

the science of physiology.*
     To one form of " nutritive centres " as arranged

both in healthy and morbid parts, he gave the name
of " a germinal membrane," of fine transparent

character, and consisting of cells with their cavities

flattened, so that their walls form the membrane by

cohering at their edges, and their nuclei remain in its

substance as the germinal centres. This was a new
reading to Mr. Bowman's " basement membrane "

("  On   the Structure and Use of the Malpighian Bodies
of  the
         Kidney, &c." --Phil. Trans. 1842). Concerning

this "germinal" of Goodsir, and "basement membrane"

of Bowman much variety of opinion now exists, and its

existence as a distinct isolable membrane is denied.

    * See the article " Secretion," by Dr. Carpenter, in the Cyclopaedia of

Anatomy and Physiology, and Dr. Sharpey's most excellent history of general

anatomy, constituting the introductory chapter of Quain's Anatomy, jointly
edited by himself and Drs. Thomson and Cleland -- by far the best work on

human anatomy that has ever appeared in an English dress, and most creditable

to its distinguished authors.

116 PLACENTA.

     The fibro-cellular framework of the kidney as
described by Goodsir, or, as it is now termed, the " con
nective tissue," though denied by some observers, has
been subsequently confirmed, and is now generally
admitted. Goodsir abandoned the views he originally
published as to the shedding of the epithelium from
the surfaces of the intestinal villi during absorption.

     The observations of Owen, Sharpey, Weber, Reici,
and Dalrymple, had greatly extended our knowledge
of the structure of the placenta and formation of the
decidua, more especially as regards the enlargement
of the follicles of the uterine mucous membrane, and
the arrangement of the blood-vessels. Goodsir pur-
Bued these inquiries, described several modifications in
the vascular arrangements, pointed out the relation of

the capillary tufts of the placental villi to certain cells

which he described, and recorded the changes which
take place during gestation in the interfollicular portion
of the uterine mucous membrane. With these ar
rangements Goodsir associated theoretical opinions in
conformity with his ideas of cell function, and consi
dered that the placenta performs, as is always admitted,
not only the function of a lung, but also that of an
intestinal tube.

      He investigated the process of ulceration in arti
cular cartilage, and pointed out that lesions of that
tissue resulted from changes in the shape and size of
the cartilage corpuscles with multiplication of their
nucleated contents. He showed that the destruction
of the cartilage might take place not only at its free

ULCERATION OF CARTILAGE.                  117

surface, but by the passage into its substance of nipple-

shaped vascular and cellular processes from the bone
on which it rests. The subsequent very extended
series of observations of Professor Redfern * of Belfast

have added to and modified our knowledge of this

subject. He considers that the vascular membrane,

which Goodsir described as concerned in absorbing the

cartilage and causing ulceration, to be the changed

substance of the cartilage itself, which goes on to form

the cicatrix. He also directed attention to the changes,
such as the formation of fibres, in the intercellular

substance, and considers that ulceration is a process of

molecular disintegration not necessarily  attended by
                                          by his own
any change in the cells.
     With rare exceptions, Goodsir held

views of the cell in growth, metamorphosis, and decay,

and with great tenacity, as if heedless of those who

followed him in the same path of inquiry ; and he was

not less reticent of the diversity of opinion prevailing

in the schools --a diversity approximative to the quot

homines tot sententice.

     · Professor Redfern on ' ' Anormal Nutrition in Articular Cartilages " --
(Monthly Journal of Medical Sciences, 1849-1850).

                   CHAPTER VII.

 Contest for the Anatomical Chair --Calvinism alarmed--Potato-Blight
       -- His system of Teaching and its Results --Loved by his Class --
       The Success of his Pupils--Surgical Practice --Veterinary Rela

          tions and Agriculture.

 From 1842 onwards, Mr. Goodsir had an eye to
 Monro's Chair of Anatomy. His College of Surgeons
 lectures, his contributions to different societies, and
 these published in extenso, or in an abstracted form in
 the medical and other journals, constituted the sign d la
mode. To be aye doing something in literas publicas
referre guided " Young Edinburgh " in its professional
look-out. Each observation made a line in a testi
monial, and lengthy testimonials weighed with a Town-
Council looking for pennyworths of labour, as offerings
for their big-pennyworth of University patronage.
His list of publications showed a fine array of armoury
for the professorial contest. As anatomical demon
strator and curator of the museum, Goodsir possessed
a footing in the University which could not fail to ad
vance his interests on the retirement of Dr. Monro
early in the spring of 1846. He was first in the field
for the vacancy ; his credentials of work done presented
no less than twenty -seven essays, singly or jointly, on
human, comparative, and morbid anatomy ; and his

AUT CESAll, AUT NULLUS.  119

 testimonials, home and foreign, were unexceptionably
good. There were other candidates averred for Monro's
chair, and notably the name of Professor Sharpey of
London was mentioned. The presence of Sharpey and

Goodsir in the field deterred Professor John Eeid and

some others from applying. The happy relationship
of Sharpey with his Alma Mater, his exalted position
in the metropolis and eminent fitness for the chair,
were fairly adduced by his friends as strong claims
in his favour, and considerately used in the hope of
withdrawing Goodsir from the contest, particularly as
Sharpey' s best friends were also his. On being made
aware of what was expected of him, Goodsir, with no
small emphasis, declared that he would not yield his
claims to any man in Britain except Professor Owen,
and that he would stand or fall on his own merits.
With the bold son of Fife it was aut Ccesar, aut nullus.
As Dr. Sharpey was not the man to present himself in
humble suit to a Town-Council, and use flattering
unction to consequential " Baillies," his friends with
drew his name from the contest some time before the

election.

     Whilst matters were still sub judice, a smothered

feeling existed that Goodsir was not quite orthodox, or
at any rate not very demonstrative of his religious be
lief. As one of his competitors stood high with the

evangelical community-- and this went for a great deal
in a city that prided itself on its Calvinism -- Goodsir

had to bestir himself in other walks than the scientific

to prove his fitness for anatomical teaching. There

120  RELIGIOUS BIGOTRY.

was nothing new in this covert attack upon a man of
philosophic character; the practice is as common as
the rising of the sun. Eeligious bigotry has ever
shown a fear or jealousy of scientific research question
ing divine rights and ecclesiastical prestige. The know
ledge of common things, or the devices for acquiring
money-hoards, no matter how, can pass current as un-
exceptionably Christian ; but the science that looks to

the heavens above, or to the earth beneath, or the

arcana of life in its myriad forms around, has too often
had hard lines assigned its culture, or rather its cul
tivators. To appease the Gods, Socrates had to seek his
quietus in the poisoned cup ; to avoid the thunderbolts
of the " Infallible Church," Galileo had to recant his

belief in nature's unalterable physics ; and so the world
has gone on from the man-God exactions of Nilotic
Thebes to the evangelical persecutions of these latter

days. It was not enough for Goodsir to prove his

philosophy and morals ; he must show a clean bill of
orthodoxy, or go to the lazar-house of a perpetual
quarantine. Tests not truth, Westminster Confessions
and not scientific capacities, ruled the patrons of the
University, even in the appointment to a strictly sci
entific professorship ; and they, as a Town-Council,
were but the reflex of a Scottish feeling of disquietude
as to philosophy in its relations to revealed religion.

" The Institutes of Medicine " chair --closely allied to

the anatomical one-- had been contended for in Edin

burgh only a few years previously by men of undoubted
eminence ; but the Unitarian physiologist, now vice

GOODSIR ELECTED PROFESSOR.                                             121

president of the Royal Society, London, could not get
a single vote -- perhaps he blessed himself that he

escaped the fate of Servetus ; and the pious Quaker,

though his claims were largely European, had to with

draw from the compromising and indefensible requisi

tions of " Tests" and "Oaths"! In Goodsir's case no

harm arose ; he was a Presbyterian of the Established

Church, and sound to the core of Scottish beliefs, and

more partial to the Bible than vast numbers of its

teachers, of whom he complained for their scanty use of
the " Book " in public worship. On the day of election

to the anatomical chair, Mr. Goodsir obtained 22 votes,

and Dr. Handyside 1 1 votes.

     In January 1846 Goodsir communicated a paper
to the Eoyal Society, London, " On the Supra-Renal,

Thymus, and Thyroid Bodies," that was read by Pro
fessor Owen; and on the 11th June he was elected a

Fellow of the society. It was said that his application

for the honour of a seat in the Royal Society was

signed by the most eminent anatomists and naturalists

of the day. He does not seem to have done anything
for " The Royal" after obtaining its fellowship, and his

visits to the metropolis were by no means frequent.

The potato-blight that so frightfully ravaged the

crops of Great Britain and Ireland from 1845 to

1847, and brought famine and fever to the land, was

of too grave an import to escape Goodsir's attention.
He studied and read a paper on the subject to the

Botanical Society of Edinburgh (February 12, 1846) ;

an abstract of  it,
                                                                   is
                and the discussion thereon, to be

122  A REVIVAL OF THE SCHOOL.

found in the Annals of Natural History, vol. xvii.
p. 275 (1846). Goodsir looked upon the potato-
disease as an epidemic, and that there was a general
resemblance between the rise and progress of epi
demics and the appearance or non-appearance of fungi
from season to season. From this analysis Goodsir
conceived that, in attempting to explain the nature of
the potato-disease, the fungi in the diseased tubers
should not be overlooked. He held that the brown

matter met with in the diseased potato was organic ;

his belief being based upon its peculiar forms and
position in the cells.

      On attaining the chair of the Monros, the pedestal
of his highest ambition, Goodsir looked forward to the
revival of the anatomical school, to its being made
worthy of the exalted position that characterised it
during the regime of the Monros primus et secundus,
and more worthy still of the advancing progress mark
ing biological science in his own times. To extend the
basis of his distinguished predecessors, and to improve
the superstructure of Barclay and Knox, influenced

Goodsir's thoughts from the day he entered upon his
professorship to the last session of his occupancy.
Standing in the main vestibule of the iEsculapian
temple, and vested with the responsibility of pre
paring the minds of the novitiates for the higher
cultus of medicine within, he felt the gravity of his
position, and sought, with all the fervidity of his

nature, to exalt anatomy as a science, and to make his

prelections fresh, practical, and suggestive.

ANATOMICAL TEACHING.  123

      Whilst climbing up the steep of his anatomical
 Olympus, he gladly laid hold of every aid to the

 ascent; but, on obtaining the chair, he was much
 more wary and greatly less discursive with his pen,

as if afraid of lessening the fame of his position by

hazarding the publication of anything rash and specu
lative. He was now more solicitous about the

completion and perfection of his researches than the
number and variety of his papers. Now and then he
contributed to the archives of the Royal Society of
Edinburgh and the British Association ; but these

public appearances were to be viewed as manifesta
tions of his ability to cope with the higher problems
of his science, and to show that the successor of the

Monros could hold his own in the advancing tides of

a newer philosophy.
      Anatomical teaching now became the predominant

fact in Goodsir's mind, and he longed to make it
consonant with the march of the science, so as to place
his pupils on the boundary-line of modern thought
and discovery. His first aim was the extension and
improvement of the dissecting-rooms, which he placed
under the superintendence of an active staff of
demonstrators and assistants. His experience of the
Edinburgh school made him alive to the fact that
much of his success as a professor would be dependent
on the character and amount of instruction afforded

his pupils in the practical anatomy course. Having
organised a thoroughly good system of teaching de
scriptive and surgical anatomy, he felt the need of

124 THE TUTORIAL SYSTEM.

making the structural or histological part of his lectures

equally complete. This he accomplished not merely

by an exposition in words, or by the aid of diagrams of

the minute anatomy of the tissues, but by demonstrating
the structures or tissues under the microscope -- the only

true, nay essential mode.

     His partiality for the " Tutorial System " in full

force in the English Universities, and viewed by him

as an important adjunct to the professor's teachings,

made him solicitous to try a similar mode of preparing

his pupils for the higher studies of anatomy. By this

system of instruction he proposed (1.) To afford a
more favourable opportunity of seeing and examining

the structures exhibited and described in the public

lectures on anatomy ; (2.) To facilitate the attainment
of more precise information than can usually be pro

cured from a lecture ; and (3.) To assist the student
in keeping up with the public lectures, so that he may

not fall behind the progress of the course. His com
plete course consisted of-- 1st, His lectures on anatomy,

in which the structure of the body was systematically

described ; 2d, Anatomical demonstrations by his chief

assistant, in which the body was demonstrated topo

graphically, and from the surface inwards ; and 3d,

Practical anatomy under the superintendence of the

professor and his demonstrators.                   His

    It took him five years to organise his plans.

system of teaching, when completed, came to be looked

upon as the best that ever regulated the anatomical de

partment of any British university or medical school.

DEMONSTRATION OF TISSUES.  125

For a time he conducted the microscopic demonstrations
himself. Dr. Drummond, the author of the article
" Sympathetic Nerve " in the Cyclopedia of A natomy
and Physiology, was his first assistant to be entrusted
with the duty, and for eleven years (1856-67) the course
was conducted by Mr. Turner --the present professor
of anatomy. Goodsir looked upon the demonstrations
of tissues not as a separate subject, but as a depart
ment of anatomy constituting an essential part of his
course. Perfect teaching was his great aim, and this

he believed and often emphatically expressed could

only be accomplished by employing the microscope.

It was this feeling, no doubt, which induced him to

place on the first page of his " Dissecting-Room Note-

Book " the Horatian maxim--

            " Segnius irritant animos demissa per aurem,

               Quam quae sunt oculis subjecta fidelibus, et quae
               Ipse sibi tradit Spectator."

     His systematic teaching, marked by conciseness
and method, was well calculated to call forth the

energies of the student ; and each year afforded larger
and larger proofs of its entire success. There was
nothing wanting in his system of instruction, and

nothing better had been offered than the Goodsirian
mode of furnishing the anatomical mind with a high
standard of knowledge both theoretical and practical.
As a lecturer, Goodsir appeared less happily endowed.
He had no smartness of manner, no captivating cour
tesy, no rhetorical flourish, to win the favours of a
class, yet no professor was more popular in the Uni

126  GOODSIR AS A LECTURER.

versity, or had so many attached pupils. It is true

that he had the advantage of having them around
him, and knowing many of them personally in the
rooms ; but it was in proving his thorough fitness for
his office, and his painstaking efforts to indoctrinate
their minds, that won him the confidence and high
esteem of his students. They looked upon him as a
master of his art and a philosopher in science. They
were first led to believe in him, then they came to
admire and love him. His singleness of purpose, his

devotion to duty, his conscientious wish to elevate the
thought of his pupils and to promote the interests of
the university at large, were deserving of all praise.

     In aiming at distinctness, and a rigid demon

stration of the anatomy, a formality or preciseness sui
generis became a dominant feature in Goodsir's lec
turing. He was fond of treating his subject in a
series of propositions, and in a way that recalled the
inexorable logic and precise style of the Scottish meta
physician of a bygone day, without flow of language

or any special diversion or enlivenment. In mani
festing his earnestness, directness, and completeness --
his three great attributes as a teacher --it may be said

that neither rhetoric nor poetic brilliancy could much
avail him ; it was otherwise with Knox in his histori

cal flights. Though imperceptible to others, Goodsir
was not without a vein of poesy mingled with a large
aesthetic feeling that enhanced the beauty of form
in his eyes, and rendered more patent the loveliness
and adaptation in the mechanism and physiological

HIS INFALLIBLE PNEUMA.      127

operations in the varied structures of organisms. Of

the imaginative and ideal he had a larger share than

he ever ventured to express publicly, even when treat
ing of subjects capable of being illuminated by a
lively sentiment. But he stuck close to his technical

teaching and his ideological doctrines. Berkeley and
Coleridge but rarely gained a Goodsir utterance ;
Shakespeare and Milton never crossed his path. As a
matter-of-fact person, he continued the even tenor of

his way, and seldom entered the arena of debate or

controversial disputation.  The marked exceptional

instance to this equanimity of purpose was his buck

ling on the armour of orthodoxy to counteract the

threatened inroads of human science upon the domain

of his infallible Pneuma. In protesting against the

new doctrines or hypotheses quoad man's origin and

place in nature, he came forth in the strength of the
Psalmist of old, not however in the language of Eastern
imagery, but in bold Scottish vernacular, admitting of
no compromise. There was not a shadow of doubt in
Goodsir's mind as to the teachings of science guiding
man to the borders of a higher region, and the standard,
which he held aloft, was inscribed Divine Bevelation,

and no surrender.

     Holding himself to be a guardian of his pupils,
and showing a kindly interest in their well-doing, his

teachings imperceptibly diffused a beneficial influence
over the great majority of them, and in other walks
than the strictly anatomical. He possessed the faculty
of inspiring others with his own enthusiastic love of

128  SUCCESS OP HIS TEACHING.

science ; hence the good results attending his precept
and example. Previous to Goodsir's time in the
University, few medical students had formed a taste
for biological science beyond the requirements of phy
siology to illustrate the theory and practice of their
art. He awakened a new feeling by making his ana

tomical teachings broader and more comprehensive, by
a constant recurrence to comparative anatomy, and
so gave a direction zoological -wards to numerous

graduates of the University. A great change was

wrought in this respect; before the year 1850,

" Theses " on anatomical subjects were rare, if not ex

ceptional, but after Goodsir's system of tuition came
into operation, they ranked with the more common
themes. His favourite pupils obtained either honorary
distinction, or the gold medals awarded by the
University for the best Theses ; and many were no
doubt led by his encouragement to make a position in

the world of medicine. A few of his pupils imbibed

his natural-history feeling, and pursued zoology with
great enthusiasm. In proof of his success in imbu
ing his pupils with that love of science that marked
his own career as teacher and museum conser
vator, it may be noted that no less than four of his

young assistants obtained appointments in the Hun-
terian Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons,

London --viz. Hallett, Lizars, Drummond, and Petti-

grew. Goodsir was in the habit of altering his sys
tematic course of lectures each year. Unlike other

teachers, he could not go over the same ground two

         ANATOMICAL CLASSES.             129

years in succession, and so spare his energies ; but

always sought for a new exposition of the matter on

hand ; this variety had a refreshing effect upon those

who attended two courses in succession.

He commenced his first winter session, 1846-47,

with a class of 275 students, which number gradually

increased, so that in 1852-53 (the year before his
illness obliged him to go abroad) it numbered 368.

On his return the numbers were somewhat diminished,

but in 1860-61 it had reached 354 students; about a

similar number would be enrolled by the second

Monro at the dawn of the century ; whilst Dr. Knox

had one year the unrivalled class of 504.

     In 1845, when demonstrator of anatomy, he inti
mated that he had " A System of Dissections " in the
press. This promised work was to form a " Dissecting

Manual," to be issued in parts, and with plans or simple

outline drawings as guides in each stage of dissection,

the whole to form a progressive series of studies for

the Practical Eooms. Several years elapsed before he

made a start, and then only to the extent of a few
pages and no more. To issue a work entitled " Studia
Zoonomica, by Members of the Anatomical Establish-

mentof the University of Edinburgh," was one of his pro
jects for stimulating the ardor scicntice of those around
him in 1860 ; it was among the last efforts of his fer

tile brain to exalt the character of his class and the

fame of his University.

The more intelligent members of the anatomical

class have always spoken in exaltation of the philoso-

VOL. I.                  K

130  EXCELLENT TEACHING.

phic teachings of the professor, and maintained that
his published writings afforded no clue to his oral
teaching, and the beneficent operations of his own
mind over those of his audience. His lectures were
like finished work from a master's hand ; it was an in

tellectual treat to see the building up from day to day
of a beautiful scientific structure upon an anatomical
basis. His teaching, like true art, embellished and
adorned his work ; and of the youths who crowded in
hundreds to his anatomical fane, not a fractional part
of their numbers found fault with his ministrations ;

whilst the large majority seem to have been inspired
by the constancy of purpose and love of science that
possessed the Goodsir breast.

     The dissecting-table was Goodsir's place ; there he

impersonated the diligent inquirer and true learner.
After a full demonstration of a region, he kept turning

over the parts of the anatomy as if the very handling

of them would respond to his interrogations of nature.
His head and hands always worked together. When
his mind was absorbed in close investigation, nothing

disturbed him -- like Laennec at the bedside of a

patient diagnosing the delicate bruit or rdle, despite
the crowds of students and the noise of sabots along
the brick floors of the hospital-wards. No one knew
human myology better than Goodsir; yet in 1841
he solicited the writer to get him an adult male for the
purpose of making a complete dissection of the muscles,
so as to study the functions and relations of these to
surgery and comparative anatomy. As lately as the

MYOLOGICAL STUDIES.  131

autumn of 1858 he dissected a fine muscular subject/'
and took casts of the different layers ; these casts are in

the anatomical museum, and constitute a complete
series. Thus he continued a student through life,
even of forms considered of commonplace note in the
economy ; to him, however, the muscles were viewed
as capable of a higher interpretation than had hitherto

been assigned them. In showing a strong bent in some
directions, it implied no narrowed ground or belief ;

special structures were but the starting-points to the
occupancy of a larger field of investigation, and the
attainment of a broader generabsation in his science.
He loved his art for his art's sake, and longed to apply
his science for the science and the truth's sake.

      Brought up to physic from his teens, and being
early initiated in its practical departments, he all along
desired to be engaged in the active pursuit of his pro
fession ; and as his own powers were enlarged and
strengthened, John Hunter, the anatomist and surgeon,

became more and more his ideal and historic example.

In his letters, in his conversation, and not less in his

anatomical teachings, there was a clear declaration in
favour of practice as the aim and purport of medical

     · This subject, the body of an Edinburgh carter of intensely whisky habits,
who, in a drunken state, fell from his cart and died on the spot, remained free
from decomposition during thirty days of a hot August ! Goodsir was much
struck with the fact, considering the mode of death of the person. Had the
whisky taken during life proved an antiseptic post mortem 1 The case is in
teresting in connection with the detection of free alcohol in the brain of
drunkards by Dr. John Percy (Graduation Thesis, Edinburgh 1838), now the
distinguished Professor of Metallurgy at the School of Mines, Jermyn Street,
 London.

132 HIS EFFORTS TO OBTAIN

education. In the spring of 1843, addressing his bro

ther Harry, then pushing forward in science beyond
most persons of his age, he admonishes him not to
overlook practice ; for though one man only, as far as
he knew (John Hunter), ever combined science and
practice, it was to be done by self-command and early

rising--the latter being a sine qua non to eminence

in scientific medicine. He pointed to Dr. Abercrombie

of Edinburgh --" a perfect clock, as rich as a Jew, and

a great physician besides." During this year he talked
of a house in the New Town for practice purely ; and
in 1847, when he took up his residence in George
Square, he did not hide his aspirations to become a
consulting surgeon. He viewed practice in its broadest
relations as a means of research, and of greater or more
immediate usefulness as a co-operator with science,
joining with it a complete circle of medical training
which it behoved a teacher in high position like him
self to expound and inculcate. He believed that ana
tomy, physiology, and pathology could never be ad
vanced in a proper way without the daily consideration
and treatment of disease. Referring to personal consi
derations in 1843, he thought that the Goodsir family
of doctors, having been eighty years in the east of Fife,
should be transplanted, and that his brothers Harry
and Archie should settle down with himself in Edin
burgh, where they would form a " formidable trio."

      After these hopes of family centralisation had
vanished, Goodsir was no less desirous for his favourite

conjunction -- the teaching of science illustrated by

SURGICAL PRACTICE.  133

practice. As few professors in the Scotch universities
have private means apart from the emoluments of

office to carry on scientific pursuits efficiently, Goodsir's
adhesion to practice was of twofold aim. To uphold
the chair of anatomy as he began and carried on its
management from first to last was exceedingly heavy
upon his purse, and as the wider range of scientific
research could only be accomplished by an addition to

his income, he wished to strengthen his hands by other
professional means. Practice also, by withdrawing
him from too rigid a pursuit of science, would have
been a healthful and useful relaxation of the highest
import. Above all other considerations, however, in
his eyes was the command of wards in a surgical
hospital to enable him to illustrate his professorial
teaching, and to make it more largely efficient and
beneficial to the interests of his class. With these

established data in his mind he applied for the first
vacancy of assistant- surgeon in the Royal Infirmary of
Edinburgh* in 1848, but unluckily did not obtain it.
He was much disappointed, and so expressed himself
to the managers of the institution, whom he believed

to have acted on a foregone conclusion rather than on

the merits of the applicants. An obstacle had been
thrown in his way when, as he thought, there was
room for all the labourers in the field, if a true gene
rosity and foresightedness for ultimate good had pre
vailed in the decisions of the governing body. The

     * He became a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons this year (1848),
in all probability to provide himself with the needful qualification of hospital

surgeon to the Hoyal Infirmary.

134 VETERINARY MEDICINE.

Goodsir medical inheritance of eighty years, the John
Hunter ideal, or that of Monro secundum, his personal

ambition to become a great surgeon, the good and ad
vancement of the medical school, and all the cherished

hopes of a large and exultant promise, were scattered to
the winds by this refusal of his services in an institution
that he could not have failed to benefit. Sensitive to a

degree, he keenly felt what appeared to him to have
arisen from a narrow-minded opposition, and from
that day eschewed all relations with the Edinburgh

Infirmary.

     In 1848 Goodsir became a member of the Highland

and Agricultural Society, and for many years acted as
chairman of the veterinary department, and assisted at
the annual examination of Professor Dick's pupils for
the veterinary surgeon's diploma. He used to be

frequently consulted on strictly agricultural matters ;
thus the Marquis of Tweeddale (June 1855) wished
his opinion on the feeding qualities of turnips that
were known to contain 90 per cent of water in their
composition. The Marquis had drawn off 25 per cent
of the water, and found that cattle ate the turnips with
the same relish. Goodsir, viewing the turnips as arti

ficial food --grass being the natural aliment of the ox--
advised, as Flourens' experiments in feeding sheep

with carrots reduced to a fine pulp indicated, the
crushing of the turnip into a pulp, in the expectation
that it would pass to the third or fourth stomach and
save the chewing of the cud. The water he did not
object to, as it might be necessary for the economy of

"I LOVE THE HORSE."  135

the animal. He had studied the horse as carefully as
any veterinary surgeon, and rejoiced in a fine animal,
such as the Arabian he got from the Duke of Hamilton
and petted for years. Speaking of horses one day to

IMr. Turner, he said--" love the horse ; I love the

horse," -- laying great stress on the word love, and then
added without any pause--" I've dissected him twice."
It was a new mode of showing love for a beast, and

the remark on this head was a genuine Goodsirian

declaration. In March 1849 he presented a cast of the
dissection of a horse to the Royal Institution in Edin

burgh, and received the thanks of the directors for a
work " executed with so much spirit, and capable of
being of so much value anatomically to students."
His last appearance, in 1866, as president of the
annual examination of the candidates for the veterinary

diploma was a terrible effort, and each night he returned
home quite exhausted ; and this ended in one of his
most severe attacks and a prostration of strength for

weeks.

                   CHAPTER VIII.

 Zoological Studies -- Lectures on Comparative Anatomy -- Knox's
       Opinions --The ^Esthetic Club -- Defence of Anatomy --Lectures
       for Jameson -- 111 Health -- On the Continent --Joints--Nerves.

 Zoology as a science seems to have found but few
 cultivators in Britain after the death of John Hunter,
 or they were non-demonstrative of their labours, seeing
that, with the exception of Yarrell, Macgillivray, and
 others in special walks, the fourth decade had dawned
before the general works of Professors Grant and
Bymcr Jones on comparative anatomy were published in
England. France was rich in her Daubentons, Cuviers,
and St. Hilaires ; and Germany ranked with France
in the number of her monographs and periodicals
devoted to natural history. England had been more
disposed to look at anatomy as a means to an end --
medical practice -- than as a science in its broader
philosophical relations. Goodsir may be said to have
started with the fresh start, and grown up with the
strong growth of comparative anatomy ; he appeared
at a time when individual effort could readily assert
its claims, and when there was a dearth of workers in
a country rich in opportunities --rich in seas, rivers,
and unquarried palaeontology. His early love for
zoology never waned, but rather increased with ad-

                                                                        V

THE CETACEA AND ELECTRICAL FISHES.  137

vancing years. In Fife, fishes and molluscs engaged
a good deal of his attention ; in Edinburgh, his zoolo
gical studies were as widely divergent as the extremes
of monads and monkeys. In the midst of this variety,
however, the Knox indoctrination became visible in

his investigations of the Cetacea, Salmonidce, and
Clupeidce, of which there were abundant supplies in

the Scottish seas and estuaries. At one time Goodsir

talked of writing a monograph on the Cetacea, and

this idea was entertained on the Continent, as the

naturalists of northern Europe frequently interrogated
him on the history and structure of these mammals.

If the Cetacea, inter alia, engaged the earner years of

his professorship, electrical fishes came to be of greater
import to him in his meridian. He spared neither

money nor pains to obtain these rarer treasures, and

as his pupils were scattered over the globe he obtained

many specimens, though frequently at great expense.

    A knowledge of comparative anatomy was a great

desideratum with Goodsir, who aspired to rank with
Hunter of the past and Owen of the present day ; be
sides its practical application in furnishing variety and
colouring to his systematic course of lectures. Having
no sympathy with the artificial aids to memory, or
what was styled popular teaching by diagrams, as

often incorrect as misleading, when trusted to per se,
he sought the higher ground of comparative anatomy
and physiology as adjuvantia to his prelections.
Human osteology studied alongside that of the higher
mammalia, extant or fossilized, became of deep interest

138 INVERTEBRATA.

to a class. Goodsir had large resources of his own,
and these, strengthened by his acquaintance with the
researches of Owen, Hugh Falconer, and others, were of
infinite service to him in his practical teachings and

illustrations.

     In the summer of 1847 Goodsir delivered a series

of systematic lectures on the comparative anatomy of
the Invertebrata, in which he expounded the leading
facts and principles then known, and tested and com
pared them with what he himself had observed over a
wide field of zoological inquiry. These lectures were
carefully transcribed by Mr. C. H. Hallett, one of his
assistants, and intended for publication, but in seeking
for a high standard of excellence in the particular work
in which he was then engaged, as in every department
of science, and being pressed by more varied work,

the manuscript never reached the printer's hands. It

may not, perhaps, be considered out of place in this
memoir to give a short summary of some of his views
taken from the MS. copy now before the writer; it
will serve to indicate the general tenor of his obser

vations.

     Sponges. --He described the animal matter of

sponges as composed of innumerable amaebae, which
being unable to support themselves require organs of
support, or, in other words, a skeleton, which may be
either bony, siliceous, or calcareous.

     Echinodermata. -- His lectures on the Echino-

dermata were of a very complete character, and illus

trated by numerous dissected specimens prepared

ECHINODERMATA.  139

under his superintendence, and which now constitute
part of the comparative anatomy collection of the
University of Edinburgh. He was particularly suc
cessful in his injections of the water- vascular system
of those animals, specimens of which he exhibited to
the Wernerian Society in 1846, and was led therefrom
to agree with those authorities who considered that the
vascular and water-vascular systems were not distinct
and independent, but parts of one great vascular
system connected together into one system by
communications. For he found that when an in

jection was forced into the water- vascular system of
tubes, it did not confine itself to them, but passed into
and distended the other systems also without any
rupture of vessels. He believed that in the sea-
urchins, the blood moved in various directions without

any regular current, and that the direction was in
fluenced by circumstances. For these animals have
several series of ambulacral holes and protrusible feet,
and his injections of the system of vessels provided for
the protrusion of the feet, displayed fine vessels passing
along each ambulacral segment which did not pass
directly into the inner part of the suckers, but first
subdivided into a double series of triangular laminae,
or vascular plates arranged on each side of the am

bulacral holes. These vascular laminae contain a very
rich network of vessels, from which the feet procure
the fluid by which they were distended in the in

jections.
      He described, with great care, from observations

140 HOLOTHURI.E.

made on the living animal, the respiratory movements
in HohthuricB. Suppose the animal desires to take
in a quantity of water, it first contracts the anterior
end of its body, and then forces all the water it may
contain into the posterior end, which now bulges out

wards. A fixed point for the action of the numerous

small muscles which pass between the outer surface of
the cloaca and inner surface of the fleshy envelope of
the animal is thus provided ; these muscles then con
tract and distend the cloaca. The sphincter fibres sur
rounding the anus then relax, and the sea- water rushing
through the opening completely fills the cloaca. Then
the anus firmly closes, and at the same time the aper
ture of the intestinal canal is shut. The muscular wall

of the cloaca then contracts, and presses the water into
the respiratory tree through the aperture at each side
of the terminal part of the intestinal canal. The ani
mal respires, when active, four or five times in a minute.
He described also the existence in Eolothurim of a
twisted calcareous tube close to the tube which con
veys away the secretion of the genital organs ; this he
regarded as homologous with the jointed tube which,
in the star-fishes, connects the madreporiform tubercle
with the water-ring.

     Distoma. -- In his account of the anatomy of Dis

toma hepatica, he considered, contrary to the opinion

generally held by anatomists, that it contained a cavity
in its interior like the cavity of the Holothuriadce, in
which the viscera of distoma were situated.

     He gave a careful description of that curious para

BEAUTIFUL DISSECTIONS.          141

site which infests the nervous system of the haddock
and the cod, but as his views on the structure of this

animal appear in vol.  p. 497,
is                              unnecessary
         a
to dwell upon them here. In his account of the
                      it
Trichina spiralis, he states that from the winter of
                                          ii.
1843 to the date of his lecture in 1847, no subject
                                       itinfested by this parasite had been received into the

                                                                 aanatomical rooms of the University, curiously con
trasting with the frequency noticed of late years in
                                                   it
Germany.
                                                                   is
    In his lectures on the annelids, insects, and Crus
                                                            it
tacea, he argued that the dorsal vessel of these animals
                                                                                                    ahomologous not with the aortic trunk of the Verte-

brata lying beneath the spine, but with the heart and

primitive aorta.
     His lectures on the tunicated molluscs were illus

trated by many beautiful dissections, some of which

had been exhibited to the Wernerian Society in January
1841. As the tunic of Phattusia vulgaris possessed

so many vessels, was found, on injection, to assume
bright vermilion tint. He had succeeded in injecting
both the vein and artery which enter the outer tunic

of the animal, and had recognised free and frequent
anastomosis in its substance. Where this outer tunic

was adherent to any object, gave off, as were, nu
merous processes or prolongations, which projected from
the general surface, and in these the ramifications and
anastomoses of the blood-vessels were most numerous.

Hence this tunic was to be regarded as something more

than mere cuticle.

142  GOODSIR GRATEFUL TO KNOX.

     From time to time Knox corresponded with Goodsir

on scientific subjects; and in October 1845, being

asked to translate M. De Blainvillc's work on the Ver-

tebrata, solicited his old pupil to join him in issuing a

quarterly fasciculus based on the text of the French

professor, and incorporating the latest British discoveries

in anatomical science. Nothing came of the proposal.

In December 1852 Knox presented a copy of his

"IManual of Anatomy to Goodsir,

the pleasure he had in reading
                         who acknowledged

                             and added --
                                      it,

                                                  I
have been astonished to find how much of what have

been in the habit of conceiving as peculiar to my own

course of lectures had derived long ago from you.
I
              I

                 II
assure you have always been deeply grateful to you

as my teacher, and have always, in public as well as

in private, expressed myself to this effect, and shall not

less continue to do so henceforward.                       I  have strongly

recommended your book to my pupils." Knox consi

dered Goodsir to be his most distinguished pupil* in

anatomy, and naturally attached great value to his

opinions on anatomical subjects.

     An ^Esthetic Club was established in Edinburgh in

1851 its chief promoters were Professors Kelland and
     it ;

                                 J.

                                                       J.
Goodsir, Messrs. D. R. Hay and James Ballantinc,

and included Professors  Y. Simpson, Laycock,

and Piazzi Smyth, and also Dr. John Brown (Rab

     * Knox, in his application for the Chair of Physiology in Edinburgh
(1841), begged the attention of the patrons to the following list of distinguished

pupils whom he had educated :-- "R. Boyd, W. Fergusson, T. W. Jones, John

and Harry Goodsir, Henry Lonsdale, John Keid, H. Balfour, James Dun
can, Douglas Maclagan, Patrick Newbigging, John H. Bennett, etc."

THE ^ESTHETIC CLUB.  143

and his Friends), E. S. Dallas (author of The Gay
Science), Sheriff Gordon, and four or five artists of
distinction. The number of the club was limited

to twenty, and its members met at each other's
houses once a-month to discuss their subjects and to
enjoy an aesthetic symposium with Scotch tipple.
Goodsir read two papers " On the Natural Principles

of Beauty," based on D. E. Hay's work -- " Geometric

Beauty of the Human Figure."* These essays must

have been pleasantly viewed by the author, judging
from the fact that they were printed wholly or in part ;
but, for reasons best known to himself, he would not,

though earnestly solicited by the club, consent to their

publication. It is to be regretted that he destroyed

these papers, which had cost him so much thought and

no less labour to develop by both pen and pencil.
Among other contributions was one " On Actual and
Eelative Beauty," which Mr. Hay read in his absence at
Mr. Ballantine's house ; this was also in a complete
form, and considered a worthy effort. He read several

other papers --e. g. " The ^Esthetics of Smell," and an
" Inquiry into the General Principle which regulates

the Approbation or Disapprobation of Sounds ;" occa
sionally his work occupied two nights' discussion, so
that he appears to have been one of the most pro

minent members of the club.

     * D. R. Hay owed a great deal to Goodsir. Devoid of anatomical know-
 edge, Hay could not have carried out the principles of his theory to a legiti
mate issue without the aid of an anatomist, and one imbued with large aesthetic
vision. Goodsir fulfilled these indications, and not only helped the purport as
well, but furnished the anatomical details for Mr. Hay's remarkable book.

 144 /ESTHETICS OF THE UGLY.

     His essay " On the iEsthetics of the Ugly "--the
most remarkable of all his contributions --was read in
the spring of 1853, and occupied two evenings. In

treating of the ugly, his aesthetic survey embraced
various types and forms in nature, also the senses of
smell, vision, and taste, as well as the physical ugli
ness to be met with in man and brute. This striking

title --iEsthetics of the Ugly --curiously enough had

been adopted the same year by Carl Rosenfranz in

bis work -- Aesthetik Des Hasslichen -- published at
Konigsberg in 1853. In many respects the views of

the Scot and German agreed, the work of the latter
being an amplification, or rather a treatise on the
subject, whilst the former had only glanced at the
general theory. Goodsir, like all men of true aesthetic
feeling, would readily mark any deviation from his
aesthetic standard, such as the inconsonant sounds, the

anormal lines, and every questionable antagonism to a

thing of beauty being a j oy for ever. All living things he
held to be more or less beautiful if looked upon in a pro

per light. Thus the " ugly and venomous toad," as the
poet called it in respect to the popular dread, was in
his eyes, as in those of all men of cultivated taste, the
most beautiful of creatures, not as observed on the

table of the anatomist or in confined artificial areas,

but seen in its natural habitat on the grassy margin of
a pond, in close proximity to the grey lichened stones,
or under the umbrageous greenwood tree ; there the
animal could be viewed in its true aesthetic relations,

and specifically marked in high relief, with eyes

         AX ATOMY AND SCEPTICISM.               145

resplendent --nay, more brilliant than diamond surface

or stones of ruby.

The death of D. R. Hay and the retirement of

Goodsir materially affected the interests of the iEsthetic

Club ; it no longer exists. It may be mentioned here

that Mr. Hay, wishing to show his high appreciation

of Professor Goodsir's aid and counsel in many direc

tions, presented him with Dyce's Cartoon of the

Judgment of Solomon. Looking upon the cartoon as

calculated to foster a love of art among students,

Professor Goodsir, soon after Mr. Hay's death, offered

it for the acceptance of the Royal Scottish Academy,

who evidently prized the gift, and gave it a place on

the walls of the Royal Institution, Edinburgh.

Late in the autumn of 1852 some of the leading

minds in Edinburgh established an association for the
removal of " Professional Tests in the Lay Chairs of

Scottish Universities." The religious community took

alarm at this charitable proposal, and one of its bigoted

members wrote a furious letter to The Edinburgh

Evening Post and Scottish Record, concluding his argu

ment for the continuance of the' most rigid tests by
stating that " no infidel could desire a better channel

for the insinuation of scepticism than the class-room of

moral philosophy, or the lecture-room of anatomy."

This was a strong dose of ruffianism for any man to

bear, and must have been very galling to the professor

of anatomy, who had proved a severe religious ortho

doxy for six years in his chair, and all his life stuck to

the backbone of Calvinism. He took up his pen in

VOL. I.             L

146 galen's hymn.

defence of anatomy as a -science that had afforded the
most numerous and the most satisfactory arguments in
natural theology; "that knowledge or rudiment of
knowledge, concerning God, which may be obtained
by contemplation of his creatures." The anatomist,
" lingering amid the harmonies of law and symmetry,
constancy and development," as Goodsir said, "takes
his part freely in the religious hymn in honour of the
Creator, to which Galen so gladly lent his voice, and in
which the best physiologists of succeeding times have
ever joined." That among anatomists there would be
differences of opinion he admitted freely, "but that
anatomists, from any peculiarity of their science,
should be less susceptive of religious conviction, and
more opposed than their scientific brethren to the
Christian faith," appeared to Goodsir " an unfounded
and most hurtful prejudice."

      Owing to the failing health of his colleague, Pro
fessor Jameson, Goodsir was induced to deliver the
course of lectures on natural history during the sum
mer session of 1853. This course, which was mainly
zoological, was prefaced by a series of lectures on what
he termed " General Zoology," the comprehensive na
ture of which may be gathered from the following

titles :--

      1. On the psychological condition of the Brute as
contrasted with that of Man.

      2. On the condition of Human Thought ; or Per
ception, Conception, Language, Logic, and Science.

A WELLINGTONIAN SPIRIT.  147

     3. On the condition of Animal and Human Life.
     4. On the characters of Organised and Inorganised
Bodies, and on the general arrangements, structures,
and uses of the Textures and Organs.
     5. On the Principles of Classification and Geogra
phical Distribution.

     Wearied with the heavy labours of a long winter's
session that had just terminated, and having his usual
summer course on anatomy to look to daily, there was
no professor in the University so unfortunately circum
stanced as to time, labour, and health ; yet he made
no demur to his colleague's wish, and offered no claim
of exemption from so large a responsibility as the con
ducting of the natural history chair for three months.

Though his own health was manifestly impaired, he
could not bear to see Jameson's class in abeyance ;
moreover, he looked with a Wellingtonian spirit to the
" carrying on " of the medical department of the Edin
burgh University in all its entirety. He would not
read Jameson's lectures, or be content to illustrate his
notes to the class, as everybody but himself would have
done, acting as a locum tenens, but struck out a path
of his own altogether independent and free.

     The course was strictly Goodsir's. The lectures
were original in character and in force, and the treat
ment of the whole subject strikingly novel. They
excited large attention in the University, at that time
rich in numbers of good students, many of whom raised

themselves to eminence both at home and abroad.

148 LECTURES GREATLY PRAISED.

The men of this period were lavish in their admiration
of the anatomical professor, whose lectures not only
created an exaltation of feeling that pervaded the whole
school, but are still spoken of among the memorabilia

of the University in the last decade. All his energies

were brought into play to render this course of lectures
worthy of himself and the high position he occupied.
Every alumnus could see in the shaky limbs and pallid
visage the overtaxed man of labour struggling with
giant efforts to carry on a special class, and to conduct
it in a special way ; for Goodsir's zoological views were
presented to the observer as so many facets -- new, well-
defined, and prismatic.

     On referring to the titles of these lectures, it will
be seen that he had taken a wide and comprehensive

ground for illustration. It was not anatomy, not zoo

logy per se, or as embracing principles of classification,
but the psychological conditions of man as compared
with the brute, and the highest exercise of the human
faculties -- perception, logic, and science. Here he was

touching the heels of the metaphysician --only, how

ever, as collateral to the strictly physiological and
psychological. The Scotch pupils, cautioned by their
kirk against the scepticism of science in general, and of
anatomical teachers in particular, were struck with the
pious exhortations of the professor as much as the whole
class was delighted with the zoological course, illustrat
ing his fine acumen, individuality, and broad general
isations. These lectures cost him an infinite amount of

thought and labour, and at the end of the course he

SICKNESS AND SUFFERING.  149

was shrunk in features, worn in body, shattered in
nerves, and almost a helpless invalid. Professor
Edward Forbes, on his deathbed, said the Bailies of

of Edinburgh, in forcing him to lecture immediately
on his appointment to Jameson's Chair, had killed the
goose that laid the golden eggs ; and under circum
stances almost as pressing and destructive of health,
Goodsir, occupying the same chair pro tempore, was
sacrificed beyond the power of restoration.

    At no time was Goodsir so strong in health as he

appeared ; he suffered from cynanche tonsillaris, dys

pepsia, boils, and impaired strength caused by incessant
labour and neglect of the most common hygiene. On
one of his summer visits to the writer in 1850, and after

spending a day in examining the estuary of the Solway,
he felt numbness and coldness of the extremities and

general depression. This seems to have been the ear
liest manifestation of his disease. As years rolled on,
the movements of his lower limbs were visibly affected ;
there was occasional stumbling, difficulty of going down
stairs, and want of power in balancing himself, especially
in the dark, when his eyes had nothing to rest upon.
Now and then he suffered from neuralgia. These phy

sical ailments were increased by any mental disturbance,
and troubles of all kinds induced great irritability of
manner and feeling. He persisted in work, and spurned

every friendly advice till 1853, when he himself came

to recognise the need of rest and a sojourn on the Con
tinent. In August of that year he went to Wildbad
in the Black Forest, and placed himself under the care

150  HARRY GOODSIR MOURNED FOR.

of Dr. Fallati. In September a consultation was held

on Lis case by Dr. Fallati, Dr. Spiess of Frankfort-on-

the-Mainc, and Professor Baum of Gottingen, and
Goodsir was recommended to spend the winter at Nice;
there he remained till May 1854 under the care of

Dr. Travis. He again returned to Wildbad, to the

use of the baths, and an occasional cupping over the
loins. His case was viewed by his Continental friends

as an incipient paralysis of the inferior extremities, ori

ginating in overwork of body and mind, and demanding

absolute rest In the autumn Goodsir returned home

in better spirits.
     During his year's absence it was arranged that Dr.

John Struthers, then the extra-mural lecturer on

anatomy, now professor of that subject in Aberdeen,

should have the management of the class, which he

conducted so well as to claim from Mr. Goodsir on his

return the expression of his high satisfaction.

     Of those who hoped, and hoped so long in vain, for

the return of the Franklin expedition that left the

shores of England in the summer of 1845, none were

so sanguine as Lady Franklin, the noble-minded and

affectionate wife of the master mind of the exploring

party, and Professor John Goodsir. It was 1854 before

Goodsir could realise the untimely fate of a long-looked-

for brother, whose life, if spared, would have been so

precious to science. Dr. Martin Barry, with true con

sideration, wrote (October 25,  :  1854),   from Beccles   in
Suffolk, the following letter              beg to offer   my
                                   --" I

friend Professor Goodsir a line of deep condolence.

GEOMETRY APPLIED TO ANATOMY.  151

For however preferable decisive intelligence may be to

never-ending suspense, I well know that the relief must

be dearly bought when obtained by means that unmis
takably connect long-continued sufferings with the
last days of a brother ! M. Barry."

    If Goodsir's fondness for mechanics was a leading

feature in his youth, and aided him in the practice of
surgery, his general knowledge of physics served him
a good purpose in elucidating the operations and
functions of the structures which enter into the forma

tion of joints. Next in import to his labours in the
field of cellular physiology and pathology, and of
morphology, was his study of geometry applied to
anatomy or natural organisms. His papers on the
mechanism of the joints, one of which was read to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh, got him great eclat, as

they were viewed as highly successful efforts, even ad
mitting their basis as resting on the antecedent labours
of the Webers and Meyer. Goodsir maintained that
the articular surface at the end of a bone, although a
continuous surface, is yet subdivided into distinct areas
and facets, and that each facet performs its proper
part in the movements of the joint; thus, in the
movement of extension, corresponding facets on oppo
site articular surfaces are in apposition, whilst in the
movement of flexion these surfaces may be widely
separate, and other facets are brought into play or
contact with each other. No better notion of this

could be given than in his description of the patella.
He also pointed out that the folds of the synovial

152 THE KNEE-JOLNT.

membrane enclosing fat, so frequently met with in the
joints, act " as movable stuffing pads which not only
smear the synovia over the opposite cartilaginous
surface, but steady the movements of the joints by
passing into the spaces left between the surfaces during
action." Another notion of Goodsir's was that the
movements of the joints were of a spiral character.

In the knee-joint, to which he devoted much attention,

 he regarded the combined gliding and rolling move
ments of flexion and extension, as performed between
two conical double-threaded screw-combinations, an
 anterior and a posterior -- the anterior being a left-
handed screw, and the posterior a right-handed screw
in the right knee-joint ; the anterior a right-handed and
 the posterior a left-handed screw in the left knee-joint.
 He acknowledged his obligations to Meyer's labours,
 and gave a larger interpretation to the anatomy and
 mechanism of the joints than the German had done,
 and showed that the history of these important struc
 tures still afforded abundant room for inquiry.

      The numerous interesting observations made by H.
 Muller, Corti, Kolliker, Eudolf, "Wagner, and others, a
 good many years ago, on the termination of the nerves
 both peripherally and centrally,* the discovery of the

       * The writer may be pardoned for alluding to his own observations in the
  same direction, and his discovery of the loop-like termination of the nerve-
  fibres, medullary and cerebral. Vide Edinburgh Medical and Surgical

 Journal, vol. 60 p. 324, October 1843 (Dr. Lonsdale's " History of a Case of

  Monstrosity "), where will be found a general reference to the labours of the
  French and German anatomists who had investigated the minute anatomy of
  the nerve-structures.

NERVE FILAMENTS.  153

peculiar bodies in the retina and cochlea, and the
relations of the nerve-fibres to the nerve-cells, early
attracted his attention. He repeated these investiga
tions, and held that nerve filaments are provided both
centripetally and peripherally with current exciting
structures, by means of which alone their functional

currents can be initiated.

CHAPTER IX.

Morphology -- Goethe and Others -- Good sir's Views and  Influences --
    The Anatomical Museum -- Social Reforms --Death      of Forbes --
    Holidays --Philosophical Apparatus.

Jean Jacques Rousseau, so exuberant in sentiment

ality, had also a vein of true philosophy in his
composition. His diligence in the field made him a
botanical discoverer ; and this, conjoined with his
closet studies, afforded him " a glimpse of those trans
formations which hide under multiple forms the more

simple forms from which they are derived." If Lava-

ter and Zimmerman enticed Goethe from poesy to
nature, the writings of " Jean Jacques" gave him the

text to a new philosophy -- vegetable morphology.

Under Loder of Jena Goethe took to the study of ana
tomy ; and the picking up a sheep's cranium led him
to infer the existence of an intermaxillary bone in the

human skull --an idea probably present to the mind
of Caspar Friedrich Wolff, if not Vesalius and Winslow
-- of great import in the study of the vertebrate

head. Guided by his belief in the unity of organic
composition, or the existence of an anatomical type
according to which organised beings may be said to be
constructed, Goethe laid the foundation of animal

morphology as far back as 1791, but did not then

    THE MORPHOLOGISTS.  155

publish his opinions. In his general introduction

to  Comparative    Anatomy founded on Osteology,
he               to establish an anatomical type,
    proposed "

a sort of universal image, representing, as far as

possible, the bones of all animals, to serve as a circle

for describing them according to an order previously

established;" and he carried out his views by a

laborious comparison of each piece in the series of

adult animals. Somewhat similar ideas originated

independently in the mind of Oken, who published his

views in his celebrated "Programm" in 1807. Boja-

nus, Spix, and Cams, then followed in the same direc

tion ; and this branch of general osteology has been

successfully pursued by Meckel, Cuvier, Geoffroy St.

Hilaire, Owen, and Huxley. The morphological aspect

which Goodsir viewed as the complement of the

chemico-physical in the pursuit of anatomical science,

has been indirectly advanced by Pander, Von Baer,

Rathke, Johannes Muller, Wagner, Reichert, and Bis-

choff, who, by the investigation of the development of

the embryo in man and animals, have evolved a series of

morphological laws, which constitute the basis of the

morphological department or aspect of organic science.

The anatomical methods adopted by G. St. Hilaire in

France appeared to Goodsir as fantastic and fruitless

as those of Oken; but, in the feud between St.

Hilaire and Cuvier respecting their methods of

anatomical research, the co-ordinate importance of the

doctrine of final causes and the doctrine of type was

established. By the combinations of the teleological

156 SIR d. brewstkr's obligations.

and sound morphological methods the present French
school of zoology and comparative anatomy has
attained that high reputation which it owes to the
labours of Audouin, Milne Edwards, and their

pupils.
      When Sir David Brewster was preparing a review

of the " Scientific Biography of Goethe," for the North
British Review, February 1864, he applied to Professor
Goodsir for his opinion of the German, and for an esti
mate of the value set by Modern Anatomists on Goethe's
speculations on Comparative Anatomy and Osteology.
Goodsir, always ready to aid his friends, went carefully
over Goethe's work, and compared it with that done
by his own countrymen as well as his French contem
poraries, and thus was enabled to furnish Sir David
with a resume of Goethe's history, quoad Science and
Morphology. Goodsir's estimate of Goethe is ingeni
ously woven into Sir David's review, but the source
from which Sir David derived his morphological ideas
was not acknowledged in the course of the article.

      Goodsir, whose early love for morphology has been
noticed in preceding chapters, kept his eyes open to
every new datum furnished to the science ; and all along
seems to have had a desire to emulate Richard Owen,

whom he esteemed more highly than any other British
authority as a teleologist and comparative anatomist.

     On referring to his essay "On the Morphological
Relations of the Nervous System" (vol. art. v.), will
be seen that Goodsir viewed the inquiry as demand
ing " constant reference to the series of embryo as well
ii.
             it

A NEW NOMENCLATURE.  157

as of adult forms that " the morphology of any one
organic system in the annulose or vertebrate animal

cannot be safely or satisfactorily investigated without
constant reference to the others," on the ground " that
all the organic systems are dependent on one another
in the constitution of the organism." He further
showed that in morphological inquiries into the
skeleton, the relations which the vascular and nervous

systems bore to the osseous had to be considered, and
that those relations aided the inquirer materially in
arriving at a proper conception of the morphology of

the part. It was in the application of the above

principles that he was led to infer that the upper limb
was not an appendage of the head, but that its posi
tion was to be regarded as an appendage of the lower
part of the neck, as it receives its nervous supply from
that part of the spinal cord ; and further, that the
limb is not necessarily an appendage of a single seg
ment of the body.

     He was in favour of a " more extended and precise

system of nomenclature for this department of the

science," he offered a new terminology, and gave sub

stantial reasons for its adoption. It may be said of his

" sclerotome " that it is more comprehensive than the
term " skeleton," and may be more conveniently applied,
as it embraces a greater number of objects than the
word skeleton. Professor Owen, with his characteristic
good humour, chaffed Goodsir on his " sys&omatomes "
being a trespass on the domain of the surgeon, who
made use of the terminal syllable tome for some of his

158 THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.

instruments --e.g. lithofome ; otherwise Owen thought,

as others have done, speaking with authority, Goodsir's

nomenclature unobjectionable.                              "
                                                          of
     His essay (vol.                           art. vi.)      On    the Morphological
Constitution of the                          Skeleton          the  Vertebrate Head "
           It

                         ii.
was read at the Cheltenham meeting of the British

Association in 1856, and occupied three hours in

delivery.       cannot be epitomised with advantage.

Historical in its survey, highly elaborate in construction

and detail, and exemplifying fair criticism of the
                                             it
labours of his predecessors,                                  characteristic of the
                                                  is a
                                                             a
man of great diligence, not without German indoc

trination. Whatever views may finally come to pre

vail on this subject of inquiry, and be Goodsir's
hypothesis what may, no anatomist of the future
                                         it

can possibly overlook the workings of mind of such
                                                                    a

aptitude as the Edinburgh professor's for morphological

investigation.                           Here and there, in discussing the

alliances of morphology to the study of general

organisms, Goodsir expresses his opinions with firm

ness thus he denied on philosophical grounds that
is

        ;

                                      ;
morphology and teleology are distinct in the sense

that the latter principle provides for what the former
    insufficient he viewed them as " merely opposite,

because, in the present phase of science, necessary

anthropomorphic aspects of the same divine principle
evinced in the laws of organisation." He could not

give his assent to the haemal arch of Professor Owen's

osteological doctrine, and throughout this essay there

is  evidence of his differing in opinion from his London

              PERFECTION PAR DISTANT.          159

contemporary, always manifested, however, in a spirit
worthy of the honourable feeling that should govern
men in scientific rivalry aiming at truth.

   If the morphologists differ as to type and organic

homologues, and occasionally land themselves in the
regions of pure transcendentalism, it should not be

overlooked that in the history of all science there are

vicissitudes in its progress as fickle as the meteorolo

gical changes of an English atmosphere : that pluviose

and electrical clouds precede the clearer sky, and that

the pleasurable Phoebus of discovery comes post nubila

of doubts, difficulties, and disappointments.  The

deep truths of morphology can only be reached by

repeated and successive tentative efforts, each of which

may possibly leave its residuum of error to be explained
in the course of time. Faults of judgment or the

errors of conception, so likely to arise in the study of

a science so complex and extended as the laws of life

and organisation, had better come forth with a modi

cum of truth, than that observers should be too rigid

in waiting for the perfection of human thought, or the
establishment of a Newtonian Principia in physiology.

Professor Owen, in writing Goodsir in 1861, on this

very subject of morphology that had engrossed both

their minds, admitted with philosophic candour that

his mistakes might constitute a good share, but he

always felt that science would get on quicker if

men would set forth their proceeds without being
over careful of the personal effects of slight errors in

observation.

160  VARIETY OF OPINIONS.

     Everybody admits the segmentation of the skull,
but few agree as to the number of its segments or
"cranial vertebrae ;" whilst men of authoritative stamp,
like Huxley, do not admit these segments to be verte
bral in character. Goethe adopted six cranial vertebrae,
Oken in 1807 only three, Bojanus in 1818 increased
the number to four, G. St. Hilaire in 1824 admitted

seven, while Carus in 1827 adopted Goethe's six. The
prevailing opinion is said to be in favour of three

vertebrae --the occipital, and the posterior and anterior

sphenoidal, as forming the cranial part of the skull ;

Owen believes in a fourth --namely the nasal. Good-
sir recognised seven sclerotomes or segments in the

mammalian and crocodilian head ; but only six in the
other vertebrata. General concurrence in Goodsir's
views need not be looked for, though it may probably
be conceded that the theories he has advanced pos
sess a suggestiveness of their own, and that in his
endeavours to expound them he has called in the
teachings of embryology, and sought through that

channel to implant them on a scientific basis. It is

something to be able to say that his work has not been
without its influence on his own generation, both of
the London and Edinburgh Schools, and that it cannot
fail to receive attention in all the morphological specu
lations of the future.

     Professor Cleland of Gal way, one of Goodsir's most
distinguished pupils, in his paper, " On the Relations
of the Vomer, Ethmoid, and Intermaxillary Bones"

{Transactions of Royal Society, London, 1861), says--

         GOODSIR HIGHLY SPOKEN OF.                     161

I" To Goodsir owe entirely my morphological training,
Inor am less sensible of the advantages which I have

enjoyed in being frequently indoctrinated by him in
those great principles of morphology which he illus

trated in his communication to the British Associa

tion in 1856." The Gal way professor speaks of his
Edinburgh teacher's " explicit morphological nomen
clature "-- e.g.  " somatome,"  " sclerotome   "
                                                  and  further
                                              ;

adds, "The only theory of the segmentation of the

skull, as far as I know, in which the teachings of

embryology have been taken into account, and been

sought to be explained, is that of Professor Goodsir."

In one of his interesting lectures published in the

Lancet (September 5, 1863), Professor Huxley says of

Goodsir -- " In this country there has been another

exception to the mere blind developments of the votaries

of Oken ; I allude to Professor Goodsir of Edinburgh,

and the able young men who have risen from his

training. He is the only man, so far as I know, either

on the Continent or here, who has understood the value

of that which took place between 1837 and 1840, or

thereabouts, in Germany, and has endeavoured to

correct the error of the mere Okenist line of specula

tion by the severe criteria of embryology."

     Dr. Hugh Falconer  :(--16"thI  February 1857) wrote
from London to Goodsir              have been reading your

papers on morphology, as given in the Edinburgh
Philosophical Journal, with great interest, and have

been much impressed with the force, logical precision,

and closeness of the argument-- cardinal virtues which

VOL. I.                 M

162 goodsir's assistants.

are not very shining in like cases in this part of Her

Majesty's dominions." In October 1853 J. Victor
ICarus of Leipsic addressed Goodsir : --" beg you to

accept of my System of Animal Morphology as a

Itoken of my great esteem, which long very much to

express to you personally. As a great part of the
anatomical facts on which it is found is collected

cither in England, or at least from English specimens,

it is but a matter of gratitude that I lay the results

now before you who contributed so kindly to enlarge
my small collection."

      Next to his love of teaching was the formation of
a museum that should be second to none in Britain.

When appointed curator of the anatomical collection
of the University, his first effort was to separate the
strictly teaching department from the general series ;
and in two years he had made such progress that he was

able (in October 1845) to report -- "The entire collec
tion embodies the science as far as it extends, so that

an individual studying the collection from the first to
the last series may acquire a knowledge of the science
from the structures themselves, instead of from books."
Harry Goodsir, before leaving for the Arctic Regions,
had presented the University with such specimens
from his collection, in spirits, as were required for the
series of Invertebrata, but the greatest number in the
curator's hands at that time were the joint collection of

himself and Edward Forbes. In addition to John
Arthur* as an assistant, he had Mr. Melville (now

     * John Arthur, the janitor of the Professor's, was a living presence in
the Anatomical Rooms of the University. In early manhood he was a

THEIR WORTHY SERVICES.  163

professor of natural history at Galway), " to whose

remarkable combined knowledge of zoology, compara
tive, human, and morbid anatomy, and powers of minute

Idissection," Goodsir wrote, " am indebted for a

majority of the finest dissections in the series." He

concluded this report by saying that if the work was

continued with the same energy as it had been during
his two years of conservatorship, "the physiological
series of the University Museum would be on a level
with the Hunterian Galleries, which contain undoubt

edly the most complete series of illustrations of organic
structures in Europe." But the limited funds at the
disposal of the authorities have prevented the fulfil
ment of these expectations.

patient of Listen's, and his observations of the work done in the Surgi
cal Hospital impressed him with a love of anatomy. Engaged by Monro
tertius as a class-porter about 1830, his usefulness in the rooms, and his per
suasive method with the students, along with a proved ability of knowing how
to do things, and how to get them done, gave him great influence, so that
from 1836 to 1846 he was as much a notability as his master Monro. He was
continued in office by Goodsir, with whom he remained till his death in 1860.
With an intelligence and shrewdness that amounted to keen diplomacy, and
great skill in anatomical work, he also possessed some of the strong lines of

character that marked Goodsir, for whom he had an intense admiration.
John's long and obliging services gave him authority in the anatomical depart

ment, so that in the Professor's absence he appeared to the student, as he
himself wished, and occasionally claimed to be, the alter ego of Goodsir. As

a memento of "Burke the resurrectionist," who was hanged for wholesale
murders in Edinburgh, John carried a tobacco-pouch made of the tanned skin
of the villain, to show the date of his connection with the Anatomical Rooms.
In after years he could exhibit the gold watch presented to him by his admir
ing friends. Goodsir, requiring greater props each year, felt Arthur's death
very much in 1860. Mr. Stirling, who had been engaged by Goodsir in 1855,
as his assistant in the conservatorship of the Museum, soon got into the Pro
fessor's way, and was very highly esteemed by him ; he is now engaged with
Professor Turner, and has shown his great skill in the preparations of nervous
structures, as well as in other departments of anatomical work.

164 THE ANATOMICAL MUSEUM.

     The museum had long wanted supervision and
improvement, as well as extension ; and Goodsir had
literally to create new departments in the collection.
As showing the enthusiasm which guided him, he and
two or three assistants were engaged in the museum
two hours before breakfast when light permitted, then
from 10 A.M. till 4 p.m., and again in the evenings for
an hour or more. He also had the labours of his
teaching and superintendence of the Practical Rooms
during the session. With heart and soul in the work,
he effected a complete regeneration of the museum.
With the exception of the specimens furnished by
the first and second Monros, the comparative anatomy

collection is very much Goodsir's creation, being devel
oped under his directing hand. His thorough training
in all descriptions of anatomical work made him the
most suitable person in Scotland for the new under
taking ; and now the museum offers as fine specimens

as any collection in Europe -- not so extensive and

varied as some, but, in its own special walk, almost
unequalled. There is an entire series of the anatomy
of the Echinodermata, and of the finest kind. The
same may be said of the ascidian molluscs and

whalebone class of preparations. The interest he
took in the study of the electrical organs of fishes of
different species will account for the numerous dissec
 tions of the torpedo, etc., and the excellent mode in
 which the batteries and minute nervous threads of
 other animals of the class are shown. The cuttle-fish
 was a favourite study of Goodsir's, and is demon

A THOUSAND SPECIMENS.  165

strated in every part of its anatomy. His numerous

preparations, injected or otherwise, of the alimentary
canal, showing the various modifications in the struc
ture of the digestive organs generally in the mammalia,

are beautifully displayed. In exhibiting the nervous

system of the Aplysia, and in his minute injections of
the lungs of reptiles and the gills of fishes, he was
highly successful. Upwards of a thousand specimens
of comparative anatomy are strong evidence of the
reality of his work.

    In 1851 Goodsir meditated publishing a pamphlet

headed :-- " Proposals for the Establishment of Medical
Fellowships, to be held by Graduates in Medicine, to
act as Medical Tutors in the University of Edinburgh."

And in 1852 he framed the principles of an "Ec
clesiastical, Theological, and Social Reform." His

programme occupied several heads; the first was
" Presbytery unfavourable to learning." He was not
satisfied with the Scottish Universities, either in their

preliminary training or the more finished instruction
offered their alumni. He sought for a more genuine
scholarship and higher mental discipline, in which the
tutorial system should play a prominent part. Fel

lowships he thought should be established as rewards
or endowments for winners in the race of every branch

of learning. Though eager for his own science --
medicine, and the interests of the university --he had a

strong wish for reform in the ecclesiastical government
of Scotland, and seems to have been imbued with the

spirit of his grandfather in all matters theological.

166 THEOLOGICAL THOUGHTS.

He suggested a higher scholarship in the church, and
a broader and more enlightened spirit of theological
inquiry, resting upon the Bible rather than dogmatic
standards.

    It is curious to see how much education and theology

engrossed his thoughts, along with science, from 1851
to 1853. Among his MSS. is the following, evidently

meant for a title-page :-- " The Education of the People,
Training of the Clergy, and Revision of Public Wor

ship ; Three Subjects for Immediate Consideration by

the Church of Scotland : A Letter to the Very Reve

rend the Moderator of the General Assembly, from a
Non-official Member of the Kirk." He complained of
the system of public worship, that the Scriptures were
not read or expounded, that there was too much
preaching, and that the prayers were too doctrinal.

     In 1853 Goodsir revised the English translation as
it passed through the press of a work by Dr. Hannover
of Copenhagen -- On the Construction and Use of the

Microscope.
      The death of his loving associate Edward Forbes,

in November 1854, was a sore trial to Goodsir and

many other friends ; the loss of so noble a spirit was
also a sad blow to the Edinburgh University. Con
sidering the bonds of friendship, the joint labours of
their earlier years, and other circumstances in their
history, the public generally looked to Goodsir for a
biography of his departed friend, for he was the best

fitted to do justice to his memory. It is not necessary

to allude to the circumstances which brought Dr.

THE DEATH OF FORBES.  167

George Wilson into the field as the biographer ; but it
is incumbent to state that Goodsir meant to write the

life of Forbes, and that Mr. David Forbes, F.R.S., ap
proved of his doing so. Goodsir was by no means
pleased with Dr. Wilson's part in the matter, inde
pendent of the greater objection in his mind to a
chemist exprofesso being the biographer of a naturalist ;
and the recollection of Professor John Eeid's life,

treated from a theological quite as much as from a
physiological point of view by Wilson, did not improve
his feelings quoad the life of Forbes.

     His holidays -- however paradoxical or absurd it
may appear to apply such a term to hard labour -- were
spent in working from 10 A.M. till 5 p.m. in the
University Museum. In 1860 --during the vacation
from August till November --he laboured incessantly,

and used to say to his assistant he was never so happy
as when in the museum, and mentioned his special

pleasure in working with Professor Hyrtl at Vienna,
where there was no interference with his time or his

thoughts. A holiday time was quite an incongruity

with a man, like Goodsir, of large solicitude for the

progress of his science --a science linked, as he viewed

     with the interests of his species as well as the
groundwork of his own aspirations. To his vision know
ledge was never " enough and to spare," but scanty,
not infinitesimal, compared with the wants of humanity
and the aims of philosophy. Thus, in the autumn
of 1853, when suffering from marked physical in
firmities, and the more depressed feeling of banishment
it,

                                                                    if

168 HOLIDAYS IN NAME ONLY.

from his chair, his museum, and his home, he could
not refrain from study and intellectual work. Most

men in his situation would have fallen into a dolce far

niente life and repose ; but with Goodsir to be idle
was to be miserable; to stay the progress of the
machine, were it only to oil and adjust the gearing,
implied, to his impetuous march, arrestment of force,

if not retrogression ; and a stand-still was no better

than moth and rust. He was at Wildbad, and as the

language of the country was of high import to the
literature of his science, he took to its study, engaged
a teacher, and plodded away in his usual fashion so as
 to fathom all its bearings. The " Black Forest,"
 whilst it lost in local and historical interest gained
 immeasurably more in his eyes as affording philological
 instruction ; in other words his retirement to Wildbad

 was far from being an hiatus in his life, as he added
 greatly to his knowledge of the German language and
 literature.

       He acted similarly at Nice, which he reached before
 Christmas 1853 ; there he studied Italian, to make
 himself familiar with the language that clothed the
 poesy of Dante, and conveyed to the world of modern
 science the researches of Matteucci and Secchi. Nice

 was most enjoyable to Goodsir. At his feet was the

 Mediterranean upon whose shores the fates of empires
 had been decided, and the chief events of the world

 were clustered -- events probably of as great import in

  man's history as those attending the victories of Alex
  ander, the bewitchery of Cleopatra, and the martyred

DU BOIS BEYMOND.  169

devotion of the Jew of Tarsus. The fact of his

proximity" to the Alps, and the cities of Genoa,
Florence, and Rome, with all their classic associations,

lent a charm to his pursuit of Italian literature.
     Having imbibed a taste for travel, he journeyed to

Berlin in August 1857, and professedly for a holiday
of its kind. There he made a favourable acquaintance
with Johannes Muller, that noble German and still

nobler son of science, now no more ; there also he

formed a closer intimacy with Du Bois Eeymond, who
happily still Lives to illuminate the chemico-electrical
phenomena of organised bodies and other intricate
paths of physiology. Goodsir had carried a fine speci
men of Malapterurus for the benefit of his friend Du
Bois Reymond's experimental investigations, in which

he also took part, and a very pleasant intercourse
sprang from this scientific fraternization. He had
other specimens of the Malapterurus conveyed from
Edinburgh to his Berlin friend, and in return for these
complimentary attentions was put in the way of
obtaining philosophical apparatus. His studies in the
anatomical museums of Berlin that autumn were very
constant or almost daily. His note-book, with every
page filled (now before the writer), sufficiently testifies
to the extended and careful observations of the

osteological departments of the museum, and with
special reference to his morphological studies -- the gist
 of which had been laid before the British Association

the year previously. A great number of his memor

 anda refer to ichthyology, and specially the Clupeidae,

 170 goodsir's excelsior.

not overlooking the salient points of the general

collection. All his visits to the Continent were made

for the purpose of studying the great anatomical

collections, and obtaining physiological apparatus ; and
all this gathering of knowledge in the great cities of
Europe was to be made applicable to his own collec
tion, hoping, as all enthusiasts do, to live to see his
own work the best of its kind, and then to be able to
cry " Excelsior."

     His love for anatomical specimens was nearly as
great as that of Professor Bereiss of Helmstadt of the
last century, who had collected 131 of Lieberkuhn's

anatomical injections and other specimens, and viewed
them as the greatest of treasures to be within his

reach night and day. Had the products of Goodsir's
thirty years' labour been gathered under one roof, the
collection would have been the most valuable in Scot

land, and not less historical than demonstrative of the

advance of the science during the most stirring epochs in
the annals of natural history and medicine. Moreover,
it would have been a monument to his own art as sig
nificant as the great collection in Lincoln's Inn Fields,
London, is to the genius and industry of John Hunter.

It was obviously his wish, for a long time, to make the

University Museum, of which he was curator, the
adorned capital of the Goodsir column ; and as the
world spoke of the Hunterian collection in London,
it might some day come to speak of the Goodsirian in
Edinburgh. He carved part of his masonry out of old
materials, and still more out of the unquarried rocks ;

CHARMED WITH OXFORD.  171

then he used finer chisels than his predecessors, and
sought to enrich his architecture by fresh emblems and
fresh treatment. With an artistic feeling for colour,
an aesthetic taste, and a thorough love of work amount
ing almost to a sacred devotion, he not only did more
single-handed than any man of his time in museum-
formation, but in displaying the sine qua non of each
preparation in hand gave an illustrative speciality to
his work, as distinct as the colouring of Titian or the
minute traits in the tavern-scenes of Teniers.

      On his return from Germany, in 1857, he paid a
visit to his friend Dr. Acland of Oxford, and enjoyed
it exceedingly. He had an appreciating host in the
Oxford Professor, with whom he could make a daily
inspection of the new museum, then approaching com
pletion, and fulfilling all the requirements of an Ana
tomical and Natural History collection. Goodsir liked
to talk of the glorious past of that ancient university,
its mediaeval struggles, its historic characters and their
defence of what appeared best in reUgion, politics, and
letters. Oxford, with its classic fame, its scholastic

influence, and its educational modes and purport, were
a delight to Goodsir, who would gladly have tried to
implant the Oxonian system upon the hard and dry
northern scheme of education. For, with all his nation

ality and large inheritance of the Scottish covenanting
spirit, he was too broad in his beliefs, and too zealous
for freedom of thought, not to see the need of some

qualifications to the doctrinal, dry, and dogmatic stand

ards ruling the religious denominations, if not the

172 PHILOSOPHIC APPARATUS.

ethics and philosophical teaching of Scotland. Oxford

had other charms in its fellowships and endowments,

and its pleasant retreats for the aged literati, or those

who had earned a philosophical status within its aca

demic halls.

To render anatomical and physiological research

worthy of its high calling, and consonant with his

wonted mode of investigation, Goodsir saw the desir

ability of having the most perfect instruments to work

with. The great minds of Europe, bent on similar

inquiries as Goodsir, called in the aid of the philoso

phical instrument maker. He had frequently com

missioned his pupils or friends visiting the Continent,

to pick up all the novel apparatus applicable to

anatomy and physiology; and in 1859, between the

winter and summer sessions, he visited Paris solely

for the purpose of obtaining philosophic apparatus.

In the autumn of the same year, and for a similar

object, he visited Leipsic, Dresden, and Vienna. He
of course spent much time in the museums, and talked

with all the men of eminence. He was greatly pleased

with the city of Prague, and not least with what he

saw in the dissecting rooms there, and which he con

sidered worthy of being adopted at home. These
frequent visits to the Continent enabled him to

purchase a complete collection of physiological appa

ratus, such as had been employed by Du Bois Rey-

mond, Vierordt, Pfliiger, and Helmholtz, and other

distinguished German physiologists.  He was the

first to introduce these very costly instruments to

THE NO VARA EXPEDITION.  173

Scotland, and for his own private research and in

struction.

     Foreign savans frequently consulted Goodsir on
their special inquiries. When the Austrian Govern
ment, in 1857, decided on a scientific circumnaviga
tion of the globe, Goodsir was applied to for
information as to the best modes of dredging and other
equipments for the natural history service of the
expedition. Goodsir supplied the Novara ship with
its iron dredges and canvas nets, and all the informa
tion he could offer from his experience in fathoming
deep waters and collecting marine animals. The
Austrian Government thanked him for his kindness,
and the volumes containing a history of the Novara
expedition recognise his presentation of the apparatus

mentioned above.

                       CHAPTER X.

A Mathematical Solution of Organic Forms --The Triangle and Crystal
      --Lectures on Man -- His Addresses and Correspondence -- The

         Respect shown him.

Towards the latter days of his life Goodsir bestowed
the closest inspection upon the surface of organic
forms : thus he traced the minute lines upon the human
femur, their size, direction, and spaces of enclosure ;
then he mapped the palm of the hand, with all its
linear markings, and compared these with the hand of

the chimpanzee. It was not enough for him to note

the general differences of these allied organs in man
and his near neighbour, he must seek for the cutaneous
and finer-shaded distinctions or disparities.

     In 1864 he began to consider the type or plan
upon which textures were arranged. His attention

was first directed to the human muscular system of
which he made dissections, models, and drawings.
Having detached with great care the muscles from
their attachments, he dissected out the fasciculi to
show the manner in which they joined the tendon,
and the direction of the fibres to form a fasciculus.
He noted that fasciculi do not pass parallel to each
other to join the tendon, but obliquely or diagonally,
and ultimately to cross each other at angles ; it was

    MUSCULAR FASCICULI.                                               175

the same with individual fibres comprising a fasciculus.
The arrangement of the fibres of tendons was also in

conformity with that observed to regulate the muscles,
where the fasciculi and fibres do not proceed in one

direction only, but are arranged in series of bundles

whose form is triangular, and that they overlap each
other at their apices.*

Goodsir had section after section of bone made

with the view of examining the direction of the

Haversian canals and the arrangement of the fibres of

the solid osseous texture, also the direction of the

tendinous and muscular fibres attached to the bony

surface. By placing black bristles in the minute

foramina visible upon the surface of the different

sections, the oblique direction of these foramina, and

the canals into which they open, either from below

upwards, or vice versd, was well shown, and the spaces

between these bristles appeared triangular. People

were disposed to smile at his anatomical minutiae, yet

those who looked narrowly at the same structures saw

the same markings. Had he thought of he might
    a
                      a

                                           it,

                                                                       a
have silenced opposition by citing the presence of
mere spicule of bone on the inner side of the humerus,
leading Knox to prophesy supra-condyloid foramen,
as showing what detective eye and responsive brain
can do in elucidating Nature's types. He showed
great facility in tracing lines and facets on osseous

and other surfaces, in the same way as Sir David

   * Dr. Hair, as Prosector to the class, assisted Professor Goodsir  in these
dissections. His own observations on the muscular fibres of the       alligator
(Journal Anatomy and Physiology, vol. ii.) are interesting.
of

176 ORGANIC FORMS VIEWED BY

Brewster's keen vision directed to his special work
enabled him first to see the ultra red portion of the
spectrum, and to see it better than any other person ;
in both instances it may be inferred that the optical
sense could be extolled or heightened by force of will
when the mind was intent on " light, more light."

    A close scrutiny of the structure of organised

forms, and a rigid comparison of the forms themselves,
led Goodsir to the theory of a triangle as the mathe
matical figure upon which Nature had built up both
the organic and inorganic worlds. The fundamental
principle of form, he seemed to think, lay within the
province of crystallography, and was to be discovered
by a close study of the laws of that science. The first
expression of his belief was in the museum in 1865,
when, holding out his hand and bending the phalanges
of his thumb towards the palm, thereby producing
certain angles, he said to Mr. Stirling, " There is the
triangle, the basis of organic forms."* He had his hand
triangled, and this member he found to correspond
with the angles taken from the head and shoulders,
and other parts of his body. He considered that
every organism could be enclosed in a figure of a
precise and characteristic form, which he compared
with a crystal, and that each part of an organism also

    * It is essential to state that Goodsir left no MS. as a guidance to his
ultimate views of the triangle, and that this chapter, as far as it attempts an

elucidation of his theory, is based on the recollections of conversation with
the professor ; and is mainly derived from his family and Mr. Stirling, his
museum assistant, who for months laboured to carry out by various dissections
and plans his master's triangle-hypothesis.

         THE LIGHT OP CEYSTALLOGRAPH Y.  177

possessed a precise form, which viewed according to

the laws of crystallography, was either the same form

of crystal as that of the entire organism or a derivative

from it. In explanation of his views as applied to the

human body, he constructed a triangle, the two sides

of which, meeting at a point above his head, passed

obliquely downwards, touching the most projecting

part of his shoulders, as far as his feet, whilst the base

was a line drawn across at the level of the soles. He

found that one side --viz. the right, was longer than

the left, in his own case to the extent of two inches ;

and this preponderance of the right over the left side

was invariably manifested by the different organic

forms he examined. He then subdivided this triangle

by transverse, vertical, and oblique lines, and found
that they or their points of intersection corresponded

to certain well-defined anatomical points or lines, as

the epigastrium, umbilicus, ribs, knees, wrist, etc. By

placing one of these triangles on a flat surface, and

erecting from its sides and base three triangles of the

same form, which met above, he enclosed a space in
which the body he was examining could be contained,

and the tetrahedron formed by the apposition of the

edges of these four triangles he called the crystal. He
argued what measures a man will measure a tree, and
it was curious to see the comparison between his own

figure triangled and a tree as a whole, including roots,

their fibrils, the stems, and twigs. He looked in every

field of organic life for illustration to his theory --to

the vine and other trees, to fruits of home and foreign

VOL. 1.  N

178 TRIANGLES AND SEGMENTS.

growth, to the bills and feathers of birds, to the

tortoise back and gorilla skull --possibly the ·

                     " Eye of newt and toe of frog,
                          Wool of bat and tongue of dog,"

as all were meet ingredients in his cauldron of in
quisition.

     Tubes like the aorta were demonstrable by seg
ments of triangles. Even in the cancelli and foramina
of bones, and the capillary network of vessels, he saw
the angular element prevailing. As instances of his
theory in the primitive structures, he cited the spindle-

shaped cell -- as consisting of two triangles united

base to base; and he supposed that the blood-discs
might break up into three angles like the lens of the

eye, and possibly, if vision was sufficiently microscopic,

the same tripartition might be seen in the organic
granules or molecules.

     Afraid of inaccuracy creeping into his calculations
when startling results came forth, he was wont to
exclaim --" Now, Mr. Stirling, let us have God's truth

Iin the measurements. God's truth in everything!

live for that." As he believed that every cell had a
parent cell or " a mother," so he argued there was an
umbilicus or centre in everything in nature, and two
sides, a right and a left. These sides he viewed as
having opposite obliquities with reference to each
other. Thus, in the limbs the different segments when

flexed on each other presented alternate obliquities,
and when the arms were folded over the chest so that

the hands rested on opposite shoulders, an oblique

MAN A TETRAHEDRON.  179

arrangement was recognised. The oblique overlapping
of one structure over another he observed not only in
the animal organism, but in the folia of a leaf-bud or
the various parts of the flower.

     The cell, viewed in its growth, its functions, and
almost universality of purpose, gave weight to the
supposition of man being simply a big conglomerate
of cells, rising up, maturing, and decaying ; with a
better knowledge of the protozoa, Man became likened
to a huge composite of monads striving their best for
the common weal of the presidential homo : now Good-

sir, who had admitted both these physiological hypo
theses, went still further, and saw in the growth, the

form and finished structure of Man -- a tetrahedron.
This doctrine -- strange, nay passing strange -- was based

on a vast multitude of observations, culled with the
characteristic assiduity of an enthusiast, and, more mar
vellous to say, sprang from the brain of a man who had

all his life been solicitous for facts. It was occasionally

thought that Goodsir's theories got in advance of his
own facts, but at no time of his history had he shown
such a tendency as now to imitate Goethe in his high
flights, when he wrote to Herder that nature herself
would envy him his penetrating into her mysteries.

     In Goodsir's professional career, and mingling with

the practical everyday aims of a great teacher, there crop
out from time to time peculiarities of thought, highly
speculative, now traceable to his German readings, but

as frequently of native growth or Goodsirian genesis.

If these psychological manifestations came with the

180                     THE LAW OF THE FORCE.

growing metamorphosis of age, they were also attend
ant upon fuller experience and a greater insight into his

science. Thus his study of the Nautilus, and numerous

shell-forms, inclined him to adopt the logarithmic spiral*

as a teleological chart in nature's beautiful designs.

As Newton, from the geometric forms, made out the
law of the force, Goodsir conceived it probable that
" the logarithmic spiral would be found to be the law

at work in the increase of organic bodies." Then his

consortings with D. E. Hay,t who rested his aesthetic

lines on harmonic angles led to his more careful com

parison of the skeleton with the human form ; and this

new inquiry elicited the belief that the measure

ments of limbs and regions are based on aliquot parts of

an angle. The harmonic angles had their day, and

vanished before the light of fresh observation -- multi

plied and re-multiplied to meet the requirements of a

new ideality.

         Apparently dissatisfied with the ancient mytho

logical doctrines that placed a globe on the head of

Atlas, and the beautiful analogies in the same direction

advanced by             Cicero       "(DaendNoatthuerras  Deorum), and finding
" the cellular          theory                            that he had helped to

build up insufficient, he sought another foundation to

the organic architecture, and discovered, as he be-

     * Sir John Leslie was the first to indicate the organic aspect of the logarith
mic spiral which he observed, -- ' ' exactly resembles the general form and the
elegant septa of the Nautihts. " (Geometrical Analysis and Geometry of Curve

fLines.     Edinburgh,     1821, p.  438.)   of the  Human Figure defined"  by D. R.
                        Geometric    Beauty
         Vide " The

Hay, F.RS.E., published by Blackwood & Sons, Edinburgh, 1851.

THE TRIANGLE SUBLIME.  181

lieved, the corner-stone of the temple in the tri
angle ! The freemasonry emanating not improbably
from the aborigines of the Nile, and that carried
the triangle as an ark and symbol in Io triumphe
procession through the " hundred-gated " Thebes to

the grand temple of Karnak, --centuries before the

suggestive basis of the " English inch " and " Quarters"
were disembowelled by John Taylor and Piazzi Smyth
from the pyramid and chambered caverns of Cheops of

Gheezeh ; the triangle--the high token of the Oinero-

mathic Brotherhood, so ancient as to be lost in Eastern

mythology, and now in everyday use as a feature of
modern and public-marching fraternities -- came to be
invested by Goodsir with a higher significance than
Eastern emblems clothed in the wildest of imagery --

namely, the glory of type -- the primitive form -- the

universal image of nature.

     In seeking his grand ideal --a physiological law

ruling the form and growth of organisms, as gravita

tion is held to prevail in the physical world-- the last

years of his life were as absorbing as his buoyant ado

lescence, if not the most interesting of all ; for as his

body became increasingly weak his spirit soared higher
and higher to the pinnacle of speculation. The happy
psychological condition prevailing with the phthisical
patient seems to have been meted out to Goodsir ; with
hopes of a longer life, a kind of optimism took possession
of his faculties. His bodily powers were daily deteriorat
ing ; his hours of sleep were short and unrefreshing, and
the enjoyment of society had vanished for ever; but there

182  SOLACE OF DISCOVERY.

was one earthly solace left --sweet and passing sweet to
him -- discovery. With this phantom of the mind
alluring him on, he fought against the fates, disregard-
ful of the daily severance of life by the black-veiled
Atropos. He seemed to possess a strength of soul that
enabled him to stave off pathological changes -- the
grand help to this fortitude being the " Triangle "
theory of formation and law that he hoped to complete
as the greatest of his earthly work.

     Eeaders of this sketch will be apt to treat Goodsir's
triangle as Schiller behaved after listening to Goethe's
theory of the metamorphosis of plants, by a shake of
the head, and saying -- " All this is mere idea, and not
founded on observation ;" to which Goethe replied,
as probably Goodsir would have done in defence of
his universal image, that " it was agreeable to have

ideas at his command, and particularly to see the

reality of them with his own eyes." The Goethian

doctrine, once so much laughed at, has long been

accepted by the world. Time will show if the same
fate will attend Goodsir's idea as to Man-- a psychical

being and of " form divine " being but a crystal in his
structural entity and arrangement.

      The title he adopted for his lectures on man --

" On the Dignity of the Human Body" --is highly
characteristic of Goodsir. It augurs respect for the
physique of humanity,--it honours the form of man
as a type of excellence, -- and seems to breathe of

 reverential regard for the precedence and lordliness
 enshrined therein. At the threshold of his argument

HUMANITY AND ANIMALITY.  183

he wishes distinctly to set forth that Humanity stands

not only in degree but in kind, above Animality, --that

man is a being invested with a masterly privilege

over the brute, -- and that the bodily form, as the

representative of a psychical governance, wears a true
dignity of character. Throughout this series of lectures
on man, Goodsir has given an anatomical and philo
sophical explanation of a deep meaning of Spencer
the poet, couched in the following lines in " An

Hymne in Honour of Beautie"--

                " For of the soule the bodie form doth take ;
                   For soule is forme, and doth the bodie make."

He argued for the absolute completeness of the struc
tural characteristics of man. The animal body
might be complete as far as the purpose of its crea
tion, but incomplete as regards the type of structure on
which it is formed -- in other words, teleologically

complete, yet morphologically incomplete ; whereas
the human body he considered complete in both

respects. In his exaltations of man, he was not for

getful of the existence in the animal of a principle
allied to human consciousness.

     In his lecture on " The Essence of Humanity," he

held that tradition, history, and revelation combined
in assigning a locality in the North Temperate Region
for the original area of man. He looked upon the
arrangements by which " the erect position in man"
is maintained as involving the conception of

absolutely complete structure and as highly important

184 MAN IN THE SGALE OF BEING.

relations to the rational consciousness in humanity.

In treating of the " Upper Limb in Man," he contrasts
it with the same structures in the Quadrumana, and

after pointing out the essential differences, says, " The
principle on which the completeness of the upper limb
is based consists in its purposes as an instrument for
acting on matter, in terms of his human faculty of
thinking in space." He believed that speech was
conferred upon man by an immediate or Divine pro

cess or act, that man has no-control over language --he
is merely an unconscious agent in its changes and

progress.

     In his lecture on the skull and brain, he enter

tained the firm conviction that " the human brain
exhibits in its geometrical proportions and mass a
great superiority over the brain of any other animal
--a superiority similar to that presented by the human
bones, joints, muscles, and organs of sense," and that
" its structural and functional completeness distinguish
it from every other form of brain." Goodsir held
the doctrine that symmetry of brain has more to
do with the higher faculties than bulk or form.
Bichat entertained a similar opinion, as he looked to
want of symmetry in the two sides of the cerebrum as
a cause of insanity. Strange to say, the brain of the
man of genius, Bichat himself, was found to be remark

ably non-symmetrical. In showing " the position of

man in the scale of being," he holds that the revealed
record should be taken into account in the general
discussion of the subject ; and that man in his consti

SCIENCE AND CHRISTIANITY.  185

tution consists of three elements -- a corporeal, a
psychical, and a spiritual. In treating of " progressive

man" in the last lecture of the series, and of the

Iinfluence of Christianity on man, he said -- " would

only impress upon you, as students of science, that
science, properly so called, had its origin within the
Christian era ; that its progress is one of the results of
Christianity ; and, moreover, that one of the greatest
dangers to which the Christian system is at present

exposed is the erroneous tendency to elevate science
above the other forms of human belief."

      However man was to be viewed relatively, Goodsir
aimed, in the first place, at an accurate definition of

his physical lines and form -- a great desideratum in

anthropology ; and his anatomy, though very briefly
set forth, is admirably done. He had a greater object
in view, however, and that was the declaration of his

psychological views of man, in the hope of checking the
growing Darwinianism in England, and counteracting
the impression made upon the members of the Edin
burgh Philosophical Institution by Professor Huxley's

lectures on " The Relation of Man to the Lower Ani
mals." In his anatomical and medical inquiries he

 had always stood out for man's superiority in the scale
 of being, his high attributes and spiritual relations.
 As a professor, he felt bound to show his colours ; nay,
 he held it to be an imperative duty to defend the
 citadel of orthodoxy against what he deemed an un
 qualified and hasty expression of thought. Speaking
 with the authority of an anatomist, and adducing

186 VARIOUS ADDRESSES.

reasons for maintaining the existence of the psyche or

psychic principle, and the pneuma or spiritual ele

ment in man, he rendered important aid to the cause

he espoused.  His anatomical and physiological

opinions, as well as his psychological reasonings, will

naturally come to be examined from different points

of view ; for, as Pope says,

" 'Tis with our judgments as our watches, none
    Go just alike, but each believes his own."

and since science has broken loose from theological

dogmas and state churches, it has shown a tendency
to a bold reaction of feeling against all records but its

own.

     Being elevated to the chair of every society, ex
cepting the " Royal," of which he was a member, he

was called upon to deliver many introductory ad
dresses, and not unfrequently to give his views on
special subjects of inquiry, of current interest to
the society. His addresses to the " Medico-Chirurgical
Society," and the " Royal Medical," printed in this
volume, are furnished as examples of his style and
train of thought in both directions. His appearance
at the " Royal Medical Society " was hailed with plea
sure by the oldest representatives, as well as the

students belonging to the society ; and his treatment

of his subject -- " Life and Organisation"--was viewed

as no less felicitous than philosophical.
     In his capacity as " Promoter," he was twice called

upon to address the medical graduates on their as

MODE OF LIVING.  187

suming the honours of Doctor Medicince. These ad
dresses were carefully written out, as he held it right
to be methodical and accurate, and that parting words
of advice should be appropriately tendered to those
who, as alumni, had been under the sheltering wing of
their alma mater for years, and who, as graduates,

might be expected, as they should be encouraged, to
uphold the dignity and interest of their profession.

      After the first year of his professorship, he moved
from Lothian Street to a large house in George
Square, which he fitted up in good style ; there he
received many of his old friends and numerous visitors
from the Continent ; and there no doubt he hoped to
find in surgical and consultation practice a new field
for the display of his abilities. Disappointed in his
hospital aims, and otherwise harassed, he took up his
residence in Charlotte Street in the New Town. Here

his habits underwent a great change. To avoid visitors
he went to bed at 8.30 p.m., and rose before 5 a.m. ; in

this way he got five hours work done before Edinburgh
had breakfasted. He lived in rigid simplicity and did
nearly everything for himself; the sofa of the day
became his bed of the night, so that he slept amidst
his papers and special preparations, and could dress or
turn to work at any time without the fear of intruding
domestics. For some years he sought the country by
the shores of the Firth of Forth, and lived at the
Trinity Baths, three miles from the University. He
moved from the baths to Edinburgh again for eighteen
months, and then finally settled at South Cottage,

188 HIS CORRESPONDENCE.

Wardie, where Edward Forbes died. South Cottage,
though only 200 yards from the sea, was quite
hidden by other dwellings, and as a low -roofed,
inconvenient and dingy residence, was quite unfit

for an invalid like Goodsir. In 1862 --and the fact

is mentioned to show that so late as that year, he
was still aiming at a life of labour, around which

greater domestic comfort should be associated -- he

bought a feu, or bit of ground, at Wardie, to build
a house upon, and from which he could always com
mand the sea. The house was to be based on new

architectural principles, and the designs given by
Goodsir interested Mr. Cousin, the city architect of
Edinburgh, exceedingly ; indeed, the designs were
nearly completed when his growing infirmities came
in the way and superseded all earthly constructions,
but the fame and honours attached to science.

     Professor Goodsir was in the habit of receiving
letters from every man of note in anatomy and the
natural sciences in Europe. He was viewed in an
amiable light by all of them, and not a few showed

him cordial friendship, if not the most confidential

intimacy. Considering his reluctance to the epistolary

form of writing -- for he was a much worse example

than Talleyrand in the way of putting off his replies

from day to day and month to month -- his cor

respondence is strikingly curious as coming from all

sorts and conditions of men --e. g. Canongate artisans,

country surgeons, English and Irish naturalists, and
Scotch noblemen. The majority wrote him on ana

goodsir's repute abroad.  189

tomical and scientific matters ; but he was expected

to be au fait on education, college reforms, fisheries,

veterinary medicine, and agriculture, cum omnibus
rebus et quibusdam aliis.

      Great confidence was reposed in Goodsir's observa
tions and accuracy, in his museum work, his published

writings, and anatomical opinions, theoretical and
pathological. Abroad, and in the best schools of
Europe, the feeling towards him and the Edinburgh

School of Anatomy almost approached the expression
of Haller quoad the Monros ; and Goodsir ibi eminet
would have been no undue representation of the
respect entertained for him for many years. As early
as 1845, the publication of his Anatomical and Patho
logical Observations gave him a good position both at
home and abroad. This position was enhanced in
February 1850, when he issued the first part of his
Annals of Anatomy and Physiology, bearing the loga
rithmic spiral on its cover, and consisting of six sheets
of original matter, illustrated in the best style of art.
No British anatomist felt satisfied with less than a

personal introduction to the Edinburgh professor, as
an able representative of the science and its new teach
ings ; and one distinguished German, it is said,
thought it a sufficient recompense for his travelling so
far as Edinburgh that he had seen John Goodsir. He
had a mutual good feeling towards his contemporaries
in every walk of medicine, and especially for those
who like himself were showing a love of science, and

no less noble endeavour to extend the lines of dis

190  BRITISH ASSOCIATION.

covery and to widen the basis of philosophy. He
spoke pleasantly of his English friends, and highly of
Professor Owen, whose labours in teleological anatomy
he greatly valued, and whose papers on the Aye Aye
(Chiromys) of Madagascar he used to cite as a model
of what a scientific paper should be. When the
British Association met in Edinburgh in 1850, Pro
fessor Goodsir was elected president of the physio

logical and zoological department, and discharged his
duty with his wonted ability and success.

                      CHAPTER XI.

Last Illness -- Hopes of the Future --Death --Opinions of the Press
                 regarding Goodsir -- Besumd of his Character.

Each year after 1863 saw the professor feebler in the
use of his limbs, and less able to cope with the higher
studies of his science. His irritability of feeling
increased with his bodily suffering, and he seemed
best when left alone in the museum. No one, either
at home or abroad, threw much light upon his patho
logical condition ; nor does he appear to have tried
any remedial measures of moment after his return
from Germany. He eschewed society, and became more
and more of a hermit at Wardie. At home he was

constantly reading, or being read to by his sister,
who also lightened some of his evenings by playing
on the organ or piano. Though disabled so much in
body and shattered in nerves, he did not cease to
labour. Work was before him, and this filled his
mind with hopes of life and the further enjoyment of
his intellect. He fought against disease as few men

have fought, and seemed to live, as if by the sheer

force of his own will he could contend against the
enervating and devitalising influences sapping his
frame from day to day and year to year. As he grew

192 WOULD WORK TO THE LAST.

feebler, the loss of co-ordinating power over the
muscles of his lower limbs increased, as also the
difficulty experienced in walking, except when he
looked intently at his feet. The hyper-sensitive
condition of the skin, especially in his lower limbs,
was so great, that at times he could scarcely bear the
contact of his clothes. These deteriorating changes
were accompanied with loss of nutritive functions and
great emaciation.

      Contrary to the advice of his friends, the professor
commenced his usual winter course of lectures in

November 1866. Before the month expired he had a
fit, and fell in the presence of his class, and had to be
conveyed home. He resumed his work in a few days,
and, despite his sufferings and the daily entreaties of
those who saw him dying on his feet, he continued to

lecture till nearly Christmas. He had become little
more than a shadow of his former self, -- his physi

ognomy betrayed a wearying painful illness and
solicitude, as much as the fissured lines of his face

showed premature old age and rapid decadence.
Every act of his life was but a feeble effort against
the shackles that fettered his physique and limited his

mental operations. It was a terrible struggle --the

struggle of a strong will and earnest hopeful spirit to
accomplish public duty. During the few weeks that
intervened between the forced abandonment of his

class and his death he was mainly confined to bed.
" Born and reared in a religious atmosphere," as his
sister, who tenderly watched him in his last pilgrim

                 PHILOSOPHY AND RELIGION.          193

age, writes, " his public teachings proved the worth of

his religious principles ; notwithstanding my previous
knowledge of him, it needed the involuntary utterances

of a death-bed to show me all the simplicity of mind

and godly sincerity of heart with which those principles
had been fostered. As he had been an interpreter of

God's works, he had been also a diligent student of

His revealed Word, and a truly humble Christian."

When the pleasure of meeting his class was denied

him, he often spoke of his pupils; and as he had

conscientiously laboured to advance their studies,

persuaded himself that some of them would live to

interpret his oral teachings and extend the knowledge

of his philosophical views to another generation. The

anticipation that his finished labours would stand the

test of time, and that his outlined work would be

filled up and coloured by those he had taught and

indoctrinated so well, were like pleasant breathings,

if not anaesthetic repose, to the Goodsir couch, and

could not fail to lend a halo to the hopes of a reputa

tion beyond the grave.

     As evidences of his philosophic, religious, and specu
lative leanings to the very last, he had placed on a

table beside his bed a large folio copy of Sir Isaac

Newton's works, in five volumes, the Bible, and a work

on Crystallography, with a tray of models to illustrate

the intended publication of his views of organic form

on a triangular basis--that magnum opus of his latter-

day ideal life.

He was attended during his last illness by his old
vol. i.
                        o

194 DEATH AND BURIAL.

friend, Mr. Spence, professor of surgery. After much
suffering, and within a few days of completing his 53d
year, he died very peaceably on the 6th March 1867,
in the presence of his devoted brother and sister, and
in the same cottage (South Cottage, Wardie) that wit
nessed the last hours of his friend Edward Forbes
(Nov. 1854). The youthful companions -- John Goodsir

and Edward Forbes --who had sat on the same benches

as students, and had fraternised so well in natural

history research, and struggled up the arduous steep
of science to professional eminence and European fame,
came to breathe their last under the same roof. And

as if the ties of life and love were to find a fitting re

sponse in death, the remains of John Goodsir are
interred next to the grave of Edward Forbes, in the
Dean Cemetery of Edinburgh.

     John Goodsir's funeral was attended by professors
and medical teachers, the fellows of the royal colleges,
and many mourning friends. Two hundred of his
pupils joined the procession, and manifested their
deeply-felt sorrow at the graveside of one whom they

loved so much. A granite obelisk marks the grave,
and upon it are inscribed the simple words -- "John

Goodsir, Anatomist. Born March 20, 1814. Died

March 6, 1867." The Rev. J. T. Goodsir has had the

spiral curved line engraved on one side of the obelisk,
to exemplify the feeling pervading the professor's

mind on the subject of organic growth -- the spiral
being symbolic of the law of the vital force, set forth in

p. 180 of this memoir, and more developed in Goodsir's

THE MORBID CHANGES.  195

lectures^--vol. ii., art. viii. A similar obelisk, without

any device, stands side by side with Goodsir's, and

bears--"Edward Forbes, Naturalist, born February 12,

1815; died November 18, 1854."

     The autopsy and the microscopic examination of
the spinal cord were made by his assistants Dr. Chiene
and Mr. Stirling.

     The brain weighed 57^ ounces avoirdupois, and
was rich in convolutions ; it was anaemic, but otherwise

apparently healthy. The cord was removed below the
third cervical vertebra, and weighed, together with the
membranes and nerve roots, 3 ounces. The mem

branes were thickened and opaque, more especially on
the posterior surface, the opacity of the arachnoid pre
vented the observer from seeing the condition of the
cord until that membrane was removed. There was no

appearance of recent inflammatory formation. The
posterior roots and their ganglia were congested. The
cord was greatly atrophied, and the cervical and lumbar

enlargements were no longer recognisable : a common
drawing pencil flattened on two of its surfaces may
give an idea of its circumference. After hardening in

chromic acid, it was found impossible to make perfect

sections, either transversely or longitudinally, as the
columnar part of the cord, more especially posteriorly,

broke away from the grey matter. These sections
were not so distinctly coloured with carmine as in a
healthy cord. The grey matter examined with a power
of 300 diameters presented large and distinct multi
polar nerve cells in the anterior horn of the lumbar

196 THE SENATUS ACADEMICUS.

part, which cells, indeed, seemed bigger than in a

healthy cord in the same locality. In the cervical

region they were smaller and fewer in number than in
the lumbar part, and with yellowish contents, which
did not take the carmine tint. Both in the lumbar

and cervical regions the columns were greatly atrophied,
and with an almost complete disappearance of the axial
cylinders of the nerve-fibres; sections through the
columns exhibited an irregularly reticulated appear
ance, with intermixed granular matter : corpora amy-
lacea were scattered in considerable numbers through
out the substance of the cord.

      The Senatus Academicus of the University of
Edinburgh, at their meeting of 9th March, adopted the

following minute :--" The Senatus deeply regret the

loss which they have sustained by the death of Professor
Goodsir, who for twenty years had ably discharged the
duties of professor of anatomy. They feel that the
University has been deprived of a most distinguished
man of science, who, by his knowledge of human
and comparative anatomy, had acquired for himself a

European reputation, and who, by his prelections and
writings, had done much to maintain the reputation of
the University."

    A writer in the Pall Mall Gazette, who seems

to have comprehended Goodsir's character very fully,

says-- " Since the days of John Hunter no greater

master of anatomical science, no keener investigator of
phenomena, no more comprehensive grasper of gene
ralisations, no clearer or more effective expositor, ever
dedicated himself to the great subject of anatomy,

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.                  197

human and comparative, than John Goodsir. * *
The only regret will be that he has left so few records

of his discoveries and conclusions ; that in the keenness

of his pursuit after scientific truth, he left himself so

little time to gather up and embody in a lasting form

his numerous incidental felicities of investigation and
doctrine. But enough, and more than enough, will

always remain to prove the brightness of his intelligence,

the justness of his reasoning, and the philosophic com
                                        * * No
prehensiveness of his generalisations.

subject, however remotely connected with his favourite

one, but was perfectly known to him. When in 1854

he suddenly undertook the task of lecturing on natural

history for hi3 deceased friend Edward Forbes, he was

found a master, at every point, in the science which

was only accessory to his own.

    " It is indeed impossible to estimate aright the loss

which scientific knowledge and academic education
sustain through such a death as his. Let us hope that

the generous contagion of his teaching and the lustre
of his example will arouse in some worthy disciple the

masculine enthusiasm, the noble candour, and the

chivalrous self-devotion which are buried in the too

early grave of John Goodsir."

Professor Balfour, in the obituary notice of his de

parted friend furnished to the Botanical Society, said :
" By his death science has been deprived of an original

thinker, a most zealous and successful worker, and his

pupils have lost a warm and devoted friend and teacher."

The Scotsman and Evening Courant in Edinburgh,

and other Scottish newspapers, and notably those of

198 THE GOODSIR FELLOWSHIP.

Fife, gave brief notices of Goodsir's life, work, and

character.

      The institution of fellowships in the University of
Edinburgh, so long advocated by Professor Goodsir,
seems to have been well understood by his surviving
friends, as on the first occasion of their meeting to do
justice to his memory, they came to the decision of
founding a fellowship in his honour. The writer hopes
that this idea, so consonant with his departed friend's
wishes, will be carried out in a manner worthy of the

University and the man to be memorialised.

    A pure thought, a simple mindedness, and unob

trusive religious feeling guided John Goodsir in both
his private and public relations. Nothing mean nor
sordid, nothing small nor covetous ruled him who cared
but little for the allurements of the hour or the glitter
of popularity. Cicero's words pro M. Ccelio were fairly
applicable to Goodsir-- " Quern non quies, non remissio,
non cequaliumstudia,non ludi,non conviviadelectarent;
nihil in vita expetendum putaret, nisi quod esset cum
laude et cum dignitate conjunctum."

     As a professor and cultivator of science, Goodsir
kept Haller, John Hunter, and the Meckels in view as
types of men whose discoveries and teaching he should

hold up as examples to his own high calling -- men
who tried to grasp the science in all its totality. It

was on this ground that he admired Johannes Muller
Retzius, Hyrtl, Vrolik, and others who followed the
footsteps of the great anatomists and physiologists of
the last century. Of the school of the past Goodsir
himself resembled Monro primus in preparing and

FOUR PRIZES AIMED FOR.  199

collecting anatomical specimens, in the study of com
parative anatomy, and in the application of his science

to practical medicine and surgery.

     In addressing intimate friends he used to remark,

towards the close of his career, that he had not done
justice to himself--a spontaneous comment on the past
of very significant meaning. As a deep-rooted con
viction, such a feeling could not fail to have a sadden

ing effect upon a man sensitive to a degree regarding
his achievements in science, as it implied either
neglected opportunities in the exercise of his powers,
or dissatisfaction with his scientific status, or a latent

fear as to the permanency of his work beyond his own
epoch. Though this latter feeling did not exist in
Goodsir's mind, probably however in seeking present
fame and historic repute, as all true and faithful
men do, Goodsir committed the error of attempting

too much --more indeed than could well be accom

plished. He aimed to win four great prizes in life,
any one of which would have been a " blue ribband "
to most men, even of those who bid fair for high
place in the competition. His hopes were fixed on

being -- 1st, a great teacher of anatomy ; 2d, a sur

geon of distinction ; 3d, the founder of a Goodsirian
Museum ; and iih, to rank as a man of science with

 the greatest of his epoch. Some of these cherished
 aims were incompatible with each other. The second

-- surgical practice -- was necessarily a failure or the
first -- anatomical teaching -- could not have been so

 truly and eminently a success. The third, or the museum
 of high and undisputed excellence, is a monument to

200  HIS CLAIMS ON HISTORY.

his industry, his art, and his research. Of his position
in the natural sciences a varied sentiment may prevail,
owing to the difficulty of assigning to a many-sided
observer like Goodsir one side of real greatness that
is incomparably manifest and larger than all others.
His observations on the teeth, his many original con
tributions to cellular physiology and pathology, his
application of geometry to the study of anatomy, and

his morphological disquisitions, stand as undoubted
claims to honourable distinction in anatomical physio

logical, and pathological science.
      He had accumulated note-books, and an extraor

dinary amount of manuscript on anatomy and various
branches of knowledge ; but, with the exception of the
papers noticed in these volumes, nearly all his writings
were imperfect and incomplete. There were heads of
lectures, sketches of greater works laid down in a series
of propositions, and plans for the publication of mono
graphs on subjects somewhat apart from anatomy, but
which he thought capable of Goodsirian elucidation.
These dicta collectanea were like passim records of ideas
that floated him bravely on the sea of time -- to-day
of couleur de rose prospectus ; to-morrow cast aside for

more captivating allurements to the Goodsir aesthetics.
Many of the changes, however, in his scientific and

literary programme arose from circumstances beyond
his own control : the pressure of public duty, not un-

frequently of public exactions, ill health, and other
hindrances. It was painful to turn over such a host

of fragments, and to see the wasted labour of years
lying like debris on the earth ; or as clay without the

HIS ANATOMICAL LECTURES.  201

moulder's hand ; but which, if fashioned, might have

constituted walls of building to the Goodsir fabric,
not only displaying his character as a worker, but con
tributing its part to the general architecture of science
that he laboured so earnestly to extend and beautify.

    If disposed to the golden silence that marks the

man of deep thought, his conversation, when elicited,
was characteristic of sagacious observation and know

ledge. To his pupils it was particularly instructive ;
it reflected his large acquaintance with his own subject,

and extensive readings of the collateral sciences ; there
was no waste of words, no high composite ; occasionally

the argument might assume an elaborate or parenthe
tical form, but more frequently his ideas were conveyed

in a pointed and precise way-- Scottish, if not dog

matic, and essentially Goodsirian.

     His anatomical lectures constituted a great fact in
his history both as a man and a teacher. No one in
Britain seems to have taken so wide a field for survey,
or marshalled so many facts for anatomical tabulation

and synthesis. Goodsir's place on the historical tablet
should be measured not only by his published writings,
but by his museum creation and work, and his profes
sional teachings of thousands of men, and through them
the germinating ideas he has scattered broadcast over
the world of medicine. He not only taught in his own
way, but inspired others by his teachings. He not only
gave the anatomical data or the facts, but illuminated

these facts by various lights and interpretations, as if

 revealing fresh facets on the crystal, and therefrom

 educing a fresh polarisation.

202  NO HEED FOR THE MORROW.

     There was no moderation in Goodsir's working,

and not even the relaxation which change of pursuit

favours to a certain extent. It was daily, dogged,
downright labour ; he used his body as if it were a

machine, and his brain as if nervous matter could be

supplied as readily as English coal to a furnace. He

exhibited in his own person what is aptly designated

the wear and tear of life, with every nerve in full tension

as if for concert pitch. Scores of friends advised him,

personally and by letter, to spare his energies ; but
Goodsir, prepared to " shun delights and live laborious

days," took no heed of the morrow of life ; now and

onwards and for ever reflected his belief. He seemed

buoyed up with a passionate fervour that would brook

no delay and no temporising with its aim and purpose.

Incessant work, continued for a series of years, led to

the usual result--impaired health, functional disturb

ance, and pathological change. To escape from the
dissecting-rooms to the quiet of country life, and " to

babble of green fields" is the great desideratum of

every anatomist, and no men enjoy their holidays more

thoroughly; but Goodsir scarcely ever realised what
relaxation was. When he spent a summer abroad, it

was not by the banks of Lago Maggiore, or sipping

the waters of Brunnen, but in the museums of Berlin

and Vienna. On his return from a Continental trip,

when asked by a friend how he enjoyed his autumnal

holidays, Goodsir, with great truth and simple-mind
Iedness, replied -- " Oh ! very much indeed.
                                              spent

six hours a-day in the museums with Muller, Hyrtl,

or Kolliker." Change and travel soon palled on the

A MARTYR TO SCIENCE.                                  203

Goodsir fancy ; there was nothing so tempting to him

as the investigation of organisms ; nothing so capti

vating as the paths of discovery in natural history.

Labor ipse voluptas might have been added to the

Goodsirian motto of Fidelitate et virtute, for assuredly

he acted in accordance with both sayings, till at

length labour became a monomania that the most

intimate friends could not change. A gentleman
wrote him in 1848 -- " Suffer a word of caution from
an old friend. It is better to live for the advancement

of science, than risk adding another name to the list

of its martyrs." A pupil in 1850, after expressing

veneration for Goodsir's science and philosophy, im

plored him not to overtask and strain the natural

limits of his bodily strength ; and these letters were

but the echoes of many others from kind friends.

Had he husbanded his resources, mental and bodily,

after 1848, and sought the domesticity of married life

and the amenities of the social world, the rural

cottage in the summer months, with botany and horti

culture as diversions, he might have been spared for

years, and benefited science more largely than he had

done. As it was, he lived only for science, and

unquestionably died in its service.  H. L.


             DIVISION I.
LECTURES AND ADDRESSES.


DIVISION I.

I-- ON THE DIGNITY OF THE HUMAN BODY*

LECTURE L

THE NATURE OF ANIMAL1TY.

1. The object of this course of lectures is to illustrate the

absolute completeness of human structure, when compared

with the merely relative completeness of animal structure.

The term animal is used to indicate all the forms below man.

2. The conditions of life in any given form of animal

supply the grounds on which the relative completeness of its

structure may be inferred --these conditions are, climate, food,
geographical area, etc. --and, in like manner, the conditions of

human existence indicate that absolute completeness which

constitutes the structural characteristic of man.

3. It is therefore essential, for the satisfactory study of

the relative and absolute structural completeness of the animal

    * The ten following lectures " On the Dignity of the Human Body, con

sidered in a comparison of its Structural Relations with those of the higher
Vertebrata," were delivered to the class of Anatomy during the summer session
1862. The manuscript from which we have printed was arranged in the
form of propositions, which were read to the class, and then illustrated by

additional observations, and when practicable by a reference to specimens and
diagrams. We have, from notes taken at the time by one of the auditors,

expanded many of these propositions by adding to them the additional ob

servations made, and by reproducing  some of the most important  diagrams.
                                     P
I--Eds.
       VOL.

208 THE NATURE OF ANIMALITY.

and man respectively, that we should possess clear conceptions
of the relative conditions of animal and human life.

   I4. shall devote this lecture, therefore, to the considera

tion of the conditions of existence of the animal, and to the
question as to the nature of animality.

     5. My second lecture will involve the consideration of the

condition of human existence ; and of the question as to the
essence of humanity. We shall then be prepared for the con
sideration of the special subject of the course.

     6. The conditions of existence of an animal are indicated

in the constitution of its specific economy. A species can only

exist over a geographical area having certain conditions of
geological structure, of climate, and of animal and vegetable
forms. The characters of the living economy of an animal
species may, indeed, become more or less modified, or the
number of its individuals may diminish, in accordance with
modifications in the cosmical conditions of its area of distri
bution. But there is a limit to such permitted modifications

of specific character ; and if the cosmical conditions of its ex

istence pass these limits, the species disappears.

   I7. In a subsequent part of the course, shall state the

grounds on which we are compelled to assume that each
species of animal was directly created for its proper area. In

Ithe meantime, lay before you two important principles,
Iwhich may state thus ;--

     1st. The conscious element of an animal is virtually the ani
mal itself ; for it is that, failing which the body of the animal

would have had no existence. It is that element in the animal

constitution which is immutable. For although the constituent
parts of the corporeal structure of the horse, dog, or pigeon,
along with the instincts co-ordinate with those parts, may, by
certain natural or artificial rearrangements of the specific con
ditions of the animal's existence, undergo very great modifica
tions, nevertheless, the fundamental attributes of its conscious

THE NATURE OF ANIMALITY.  209

element --which collectively constitute a horse, dog, or pigeon
-- remain unaltered, whether the animal has assumed a de

graded or an elevated type of its specific form.

     2d. An animal is adapted to its geographical area by the
endowments of its conscious principle, of which element its

corporeal structure is the mere instrument.

     8. Every animal reacts on the area which it inhabits ;
that reaction being, in fact, the final purpose for which the

animal was created. The animal, therefore, while indirectly

advancing, through its instinctive consciousness, the end pro- .
posed in the creation of its species, by providing for the
sustenance of its own body, and the reproduction of its own
kind, is also engaged directly but instinctively in the further
ance of that progressive modification of its own portion of

terrestrial surface necessary for the present existence, and for

the future and higher purposes for which that area is destined.
Thus, it is indirectly engaged in furthering its Creator's plan.

   If I9. the principle which have stated be correct --that the

structure of an animal is merely the instrument of its instinctive
consciousness --then the conclusions to which we must come

are most important. For, if we be correct, then we must look for

the specific character of an animal not merely in its corporeal
structure, but fundamentally in its instinctive consciousness,

and in the manifestations of that conscious element. We
must also look for the explanation of the dependence of
specific animal forms on their appropriate geographical areas,
not in the mere adaptation of their corporeal structure, but
more immediately in their specific instinctive consciousness.
When a species ceases to exist, we must consider its dis

appearance as the result, not of a mere struggle for existence
with other animal forms or with cosmical conditions, nor of

insufficient adaptivity to such extent of altered conditions of
life as its specific endowments admit, but as the more or

less direct result of the law impressed upon its instinctive

210 THE NATURE OF ANIMALITY.

consciousness, in virtue of which it must cease to exist, when
no longer supplied with the conditions on which its activity
and faculties may be exercised through the instrumentality of

its corporeal vehicle.
     10. As the instinctive consciousness, the corporeal struc

ture, and the geographical area of an animal species, are
three co-ordinate elements in its specific constitution, it is
evident that any one of these elements can only be efficiently
investigated when the other two elements are fully repre
sented in the question.

     11. By this comprehensive method, applied to the investi
gation of the structure of an animal, we are enabled to see
how the body of an animal, although complete or fully fitted
to serve as the instrument of the animal's instinctive conscious

ness towards the fulfilment of the purpose of its creation,

may, nevertheless, be incomplete as regards the type of animal

structure on which it is formed. We express this technically

when we say, that the structure of an animal is teleologically

complete ; but morphologically incomplete. It is the object

of this course of lectures to indicate the grounds on which

the human body is to be viewed, not only as teleologically,

but also as morphologically complete. In this twofold cor
Iporeal completeness we shall,
                                believe, find a structural

characteristic, which, along with his possession of a higher and

distinct form of conscious principle, leaves no place for man

in any conceivable arrangement of the animal kingdom.

12. The further elucidation of the relative position of man

to the animal kingdom, involves a closer examination of the
nature of animality.

    If13. we are correct in assuming that the corporeal

structure of an animal is merely the instrument of its instinc
tive consciousness, then it must be to this instinctive con

sciousness that we must look for the essential characters of

animality.

THE NATURE OF ANIMALITY.  211

     14. As the facts of human psychology are attained hy a
process of self-examination, it is evident that we can only
investigate comparative psychology by an indirect method.
Nevertheless, as we can compare the combined instinctive and
rational elements of our own human economy, so we may with
confidence conduct our indirect comparative psychological
investigations under the control of our own experience.

      15. There can be no question as to the existence in the
animal of a principle allied to our own human consciousness.
This is admitted by common consent. Every unbiassed observer
who has studied the actions of the various forms of animals,

from the protozoon upwards, must feel impressed by the mani
festations presented of an ascending series of forms of con
sciousness ; a series co-ordinate with the series of structural
forms in which their presence is manifested.

     16. These manifestations evince in various degrees of
distinctness, as we ascend in the series, three fundamental

conditions or states of consciousness.
     1st. As the consciousness is manifested in sensation and

perception.

     2d. As it is manifested in the appetites, emotions, passions,

social impulses, and special habits ; and

     3d. As it manifests itself in the determining power or will.
    17. In attempting to assign a precise value or meaning to

the terms sensation, perception, appetite, emotion, passion,
will, when applied to forms of consciousness in an animal, we

can only proceed by the indirect method.
     18. The sense of vision, as manifested in the animal,

affords a satisfactory illustration of this indirect method of
inquiry. The organ of vision is met with very low in the
animal series.

     19. However varied the structure of the eye may be, it

is always constructed on optical principles. The refractive
media of the eye are so arranged and constructed as to trans

212 THE NATURE OF ANIMALITY.

mit the rays of objective light, which impinge upon them, in

given directions to the retina. In the retina, the objective

light, by the instrumentality of certain structural arrange

ments --the rods and cones --induces the usual nerve action in

the fibres of the optic nerve. This nerve action, common to
all nerve fibres, is a polaric physical action ; proceeding by
the optic nerve from the retina to the nervous centre of
vision in the brain. At that nervous centre the consciousness

of the animal interprets the objective or physical nerve action

as subjective light.
      20. This subjective light, or light usually so termed, is a

mere condition or form of consciousness ; it is the psychical
co-ordinate of the physical luminiferous oscillations, which
are merely its mediate inducing cause.

     21. By these successive actions, physical and psychical,
co-ordinated by the optical construction of the eye-ball, and
of the light-perceiving portion of the brain, the animal per

ceives at once the object presented to its eye. It sees it

directly. The animal can determine without effort not only
the distance of the object, but also without hesitation, the
precise positional relations of the object to surrounding
objects, and to itself.

      22. This faculty of using the organs of vision, and the
other organs of special sense, as immediate instruments, is
peculiar to the animal. Man cannot do so. To him the
organs of sense are mediate instruments. He must learn how
to make use of them. He must learn how to interpret their
revelations under the guidance of his rational consciousness.
The animal requires no such self-education.

    I23. The illustration which have given of the process of

vision in the animal, affords fundamental evidence of the

peculiar character of its conscious principle. Now, if we

assume, as we may safely do, that all the other conditions of
its consciousness are fundamentally determined in the con

THE NATURE OF ANIMALITY.                          213

stitution of its conscious principle, we have a clue to the

solution of the question as to the nature of that conscious

principle, as distinguished from the rational consciousness of

man. We are led to see that all the conditions of the con

sciousness of the animal are, in given circumstances, pre

determined for it. The consciousness of the animal is not

called upon to pass through a series of phases, or to go
through processes under the guidance of a higher reason as
in man. The mental processes in the animal are simple and
direct ; and, moreover, it cannot transgress their laws.

24 Up to this point we have traced the peculiar character

of the consciousness of the animal, in relation to its sensations

Ifand perceptions.  we assume, as we may again safely do,

that the animal conscious principle has its processes in rela

tion to its emotions, appetites, passions, social impulses, and

special habits, strictly predetermined in its own constitution ;

then it follows, that all its actions in relation to these various

conditions must be directly and precisely fulfilled. The
animal consciousness, then, cannot have presented to it any

question in reference to any of its so-called emotions, appe

tites, and passions. It allays each and all of them according

to their urgency, and therein instinctively acts up to the
design of its Creator. The mental processes of the animal

are simple and direct. It cannot transgress laws unless man
leads it wrong.

     25. Again, that phase of the consciousness of an animal
in which it appears to determine an act, or to exercise a will,

is undoubtedly a condition strictly predetermined for in
                    a

                                                        it

                                                                         it,
so far that the act can only be resolved upon and accom

plished under certain conditions. An animal has no will,

in the proper sense of the term. In like manner,  cannot

be conceived to possess choice between right and wrong,

action or inaction.

    26. All the conditions of the conscious principle of an

214                THE NATURE OF ANIMALITY.

animal, whether they be induced by objects from without, or

originate in the inner or proper processes of the conscious

principle itself, or exhibit themselves under the aspect of a
will, would thus appear to be as fully predetermined in the

economy of the animal's specific conscious principle, as are

the specific structures provided for its corporeal economy.

     27. We apply the term instinct to the collective manifes

tations of the peculiar co-ordinated, and consequently pre

determined conscious principle of the animal. It is evident

that the term conscious, when applied to the mental principle

of an animal, must be understood in a modified form. Man

is conscious not only of feeling, thinking, and acting, but he

is also conscious that every feeling is followed by an act of

thought ; and that thought itself is a process which neces

sarily precedes an act of will He
a                                  moreover, conscious

                I                                                               conscious of
                                                                 is,
                                                                            is
that he may act or not as he pleases. He

being able to resist the impulses of his emotions, appetites,
passions, and of regulating his entire economy by his con

scious principle.  allude to these characteristics of the

human consciousness at present, for the purpose of producing

clearer impression on your minds of the nature of animality,

when contrasted with the essential features of humanity.

THE ESSENCE OF HUMANITY.  215

                      LECTUEE II.

                                 THE ESSENCE OF HUMANITY.

     1. We now proceed, guided by the principles involved in
my last lecture, to examine the conditions of human life, and to
inquire into the question as to the essence of humanity, so
as to attain a basis for the discussion of the subject of this

course.

     2. As in the animal, so in man ; his entire economy must

be co-ordinate with his area --or, as we must term it in his

case, sphere of action.
     3. Man has not been created for any area of a given geo

logical, climatal, or phyto-zoological character. He inhabits
the entire globe.

     4. From the principles on which we proceed, it is evident
that the extension of man over the globe has been provided
for in the superiority of his psychical, and consequently of his

corporeal, endowments.

    5. It is also evident, that as the animal is so constituted,

psychically and corporeally, as to be capable, not only of sus
taining its own life and of propagating its species, but also of
acting efficiently, and without failure, in promoting the de
velopment of the area which it inhabits ; man must in like
manner be so endowed, psychically and corporeally, as to en
able him not only to sustain himself and propagate his kind
in all parts of the globe, but also to act towards the develop
ment and improvement of the entire surface of the earth, in a
manner and to an extent, co-ordinate with his endowments.

     6. Tradition, History, and Revelation, the three sources

 216 THE ESSENCE OF HUMANITY.

from which the anthropologist derives his most essential facts,
 combine in assigning a locality in the North Temperate Zone
 as the original area of man. We must assume, therefore, that
 a temperate zone affords more immediately the material con
 ditions of human life and welfare. Nevertheless, man has

 gradually extended the area of his habitation, or temporary
occupation, into the Torrid and Arctic Zones ; and as no
arguments can be drawn from ethnological science in opposi

tion to the assumption that man --in that gradual advance in
power over material nature which is one element of civilisa
tion, along with that increasing elevation of his own energies
which his rational consciousness, under the increasing influ
ence of Christianity, secures for him, and which constitutes
civilisation properly so called --will at length be enabled, if

not continuously to inhabit, at least to (connect and) appro
priate for his benefit every portion of the earth's surface ; and
so to fulfil his Creator's reiterated command " To be fruitful

and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it; and

have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the

air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth."
      7. When man in a proper spirit avails himself of that do

minion over the plants and animals of the globe, bestowed
upon him by his and their Creator, he is fulfilling consciously
a divine law, similar to, but of higher import than, that law
in virtue of which the instinctive consciousness of the animal

guides it in availing itself of the vegetables and animals which

have been provided as its proper food.

    8. It may not be out of place here to remark, that the

instinctive consciousness possessed by man, that the majority
of the vegetables and animals which surround him would,
under circumstances of privation, afford him subsistence, is in
exact accordance with the revealed Eecord, in which we are

informed that man after his creation, and again after the flood,
was divinely informed by his Maker, that the dominion over

THE ESSENCE OF HUMANITY.                       217

every vegetable and animal which had been conferred upon
him involved the legitimate use of them for food -- " To you
it shall be for meat." " Shall be meat for you."

9. But in as much as man is thus privileged as to the ex

tent of the resources of food allotted to him, the actual extent

to which he is to avail himself of that privilege, in ordinary

circumstances, would appear to be indicated to him.

    1st. In his (greater) instinctive tendency to employ certain

vegetables and animals for his subsistence.
     2d. In his preference more particularly for those animals

and vegetables, which doubtless were created for his special

use as food--e.g., the ox and sheep, wheat and barley ;--and

the employment of which as food was probably one of those

direct Divine communications with which man has been

favoured.

    3d. In his rational consciousness, in virtue of which he is
enabled if he will, not only to obey the healthful impulses of

his higher instinct, but also to attain, through science, such

information regarding the laws of his corporeal constitution,

and the various modes of sustaining            as will guide him to
a is
                                          it,the selection and preparation of food suitable for every district

of the earth, season of the year, and circumstances of society,

on which his lot may at any time be cast.

10. The same principles by which we have been guided in

our examination of the mode in which man, in contrast with

the animal, enabled to supply himself with food over his

extended geographical area, would guide us to corresponding
results in reference to the methods by which he provides for

his protection from influences detrimental to life, from the

detrimental effects of heat, cold, dryness, moisture, darkness,

unsuitable atmosphere, and other cosmical conditions. We

should find similar combination of original instinct, direct

Divine communication, and the application of applied science.

We should find the instinctive resources for personal covering

218 THE ESSENCE OF HUMANITY.

and habitation develope under the influence of man's rational
consciousness into all those manifold arts by means of which
he is clothed, housed, warmed, lighted, and provided with all
those co-ordinated social and civic arrangements which result
in the economics of the house, hamlet, farm, city, and state.
The latter arrangements compel man, collected in masses, to
develope for himself, on instinctive and scientific grounds, the
sanitary regulations which such circumstances force upon his
attention. But even in our present so-called civilized condi
tion, man shows himself in many respects behind the animal
in his sanitary arrangements and precautions. The animal

never disobeys, if left to the guidance of its own instincts, the
physiological laws of its economy. It is a perfect sanitarian.

Our present so-called civilization has only reached the phase
of sanitary reform.

     11. But man, like the animal, not only finds his subsistence
in his geographical area, but also reacts upon it. Here, again,

we find that the purposes served by the animal are to a great

extent secondary in importance. It merely co-operates in

that series of phyto-zoological. or organic actions, which, along
with the cotemporaneous cosmical or inorganic processes,
tend at any time to prepare the surface of the globe for the
reception of man, or maintain it in a condition fitted for his
economy. The changes effected by human agency on the sur
face are of a much more positive kind. The clearing of
forests, the recovery of dry surface by coast and river embank
ment, and by draining, the securing of moisture by irrigation,
are processes which not only prepare the surface for agricul
tural produce, but induce at the same time an appropriate
change of climate. The changes of surface and climate,
induced by human agency, tend to check the productivity of

certain vegetable and animal forms ; or by entirely removing
their proper conditions of life, cause the local or general dis
appearance of others. The formation of roads, of bridges, of

THE ESSENCE OF HUMANITY.  219

aqueducts, of canals, of railroads, of telegraphs, merely presents
successive phases of that development of the surface of the
globe due to man -- a development which is affected under his
self-conscious or rational agency, in obedience to his Maker's

command " to replenish the earth, and subdue it." It may

here be observed, that while the animal is merely enabled,
with its specific physical strength, to provide its means of
subsistence ; man is enabled as he advances in his work of

subjugating the earth, to avail himself of external material
force to effect his successive purposes. Under the guidance
of his rational intelligence, he proceeds on mechanical princi
ples, he collects and concentrates for the ends he has in view,
the forces involved in gunpowder and steam, and thus making
his way into the interior of the earth in search of its mineral
wealth, modifies its surfaces, in accordance with the re

quirements of each locality. It must be quite clear to every

unprejudiced thinker that human agency is destined to effect
extraordinary changes in the arrangements and aspect of the

surface of the globe.
      12. The proper conception of the nature and effects of those

cosmical changes induced by man, may be indicated in the

following considerations :--
     1st, That the full development of man's material economy

and welfare on earth, is only secondary to the higher purposes
of his existence.

      2d, That the full development of man's material economy
and welfare, including his full legitimate enjoyment thereof,
is to be worked out by him in evidence of the amount of
knowledge to which he has attained of the laws of God in
 nature, of the extent to which he has properly applied and
 enjoyed that amount of knowledge to which he has attained,
 through the gift of that rational consciousness conferred on
 him as a part of his human constitution. This principle
involves the proper use of man's intellectual faculties and

220 THE ESSKNCE OF HUMANITY.

aesthetic endowments in the cultivation, application, and

enjoyment of the arts and sciences.
     3d, That the knowledge of the laws of God in nature, and

the pleasure felt in the proper contemplation and application

of them, are merely the adjuncts and aids to that higher

purpose of man's creation ; his continuous retention of a

knowledge of, and his obedient submission to God's moral

law, as involved in the principles of Christianity.

14. The human constitution then involves in itself, and

secures for man, two guiding principles of action, not pos
sessed by the animal --the faculty of thought, and the moral
faculty -- in virtue of both of which, but primarily of the

latter, he is fitted to fulfil the conditions of a religious being.

15. Finally, the economy of man would be incomplete,

his various endowments could not be efficiently applied by

him, were he destitute of speech. The varied and ever vary

ing development of language is one of the most remarkable

results of the peculiar constitution of humanity. To this im

portant subject, as also to other subjects briefly alluded to in

Ithe previous part of this lecture, shall have to recur in sub

sequent parts of the course ; and more particularly in my

Ithree concluding lectures, in which shall have to sum up

the results arrived at in the comparative anatomical portion

of the course.

16. Such, then, are the conditions of man's life and welfare.

In my last lecture we found the conditions of the animal's

life and welfare were secured for  in the fixed and un
is
                                                    it,

                                                                                            a
alterable working of its instinctive form of consciousness.

We shall now find that man, provided like the animal with

instinctive, corporeal, and cosmical conditions of life and

welfare, has superadded to his animal constitution                                             con

scious principle, possessed of entirely different faculties and
endowments. In the possession of this higher principle,

man elevated above his own corporeal and instinctive in

         THE ESSENCE OF HUMANITY.                                           221

dividuality. He may control his animal instincts, and use

his body as a thoroughly adapted instrument. In the pos

session of this higher conscious principle, a human being is
not merely an individual --as an animal can only be considered
-- he possesses also a personality -- he is a person who is called

upon to employ not only his body and animal principle, but

also his higher or self-conscious principle, conjointly under

the guidance of the latter, to those great and extensive pur

poses for which he was created.

     17. From whatever point of view we compare man with

the animal, e.g., if we compare, as in the present course of

lectures, the anatomical structure of man and the animal, we

must keep steadily in view the nature of man's higher con
Iscious principle.
                    shall have to make frequent reference to
Ithe subject in subsequent lectures ; at present, shall merely

indicate the more important features of its economy.

18. In the first place, we are conscious of a faculty of

thought, in virtue of the processes of which we reach certain

conclusions, not only regarding external objects, but also re

garding our consciousness itself. We are conscious in

thought of a faculty of judgment. It involves a comparison

and a judgment regarding two things, neither of which we

can think down or out of existence. The self which thinks,

and the self which is thought of. Again in our consciousness

in the act of perception, we are not only conscious of self, but

of a not self. We can neither disbelieve the one nor the
other. We cannot think unless under the conditions of time.

There is always a judgment of self, and of not self as existing
in time. Time is only apprehensible to us, as a condition

under which we think. Hence our human conception of

duration.

    In the same manner, space is to us only a condition of

         a
                                                                       it,
thought. We can form no conception of                                       unless when

passing  judgment regarding the relation of things as

222 THE ESSENCE OF HUMANITY.

they are in it. Hence, likewise, our human conception of

motion.

    In like manner we are compelled by the constitution of

our consciousness to conceive of matter as not annihilable.

We cannot conceive of matter as being expanded or com

pressed in space to annihilation.

     The irresistible judgment of casuality too is passed by our
consciousness, by virtue of the necessity it is under of judging

of existence, under the condition of time.

We cannot think of a thing but as an existence. We

cannot think of a thing except under the condition of time ;

is,that we are under the necessity of considering as only
                                  is
    it
new form of what existed before it. Therefore we cannot;

                                          it
                                              is

                                                 is :
                                                                            1
                                                            it
                                                                    is
                                                                                          a
think of as absolutely commencing per se. We are obliged
to conclude with Sir William Hamilton --"The creation of

  world this, indeed, as easily conceived as the creation ofis is

an atom. But what our thought of creation It not a
a

                   !

thought of the mere springing of nothing into something. On

the contrary, creation conceived, and by us conceivableis

only as the evolution of existence from possibility into actu

ality by the fiat of the Deity."

The human consciousness therefore self-conscious. By

means of this self-conscious property  constantly compelled

to regulate its judgments and beliefs according to certain con

ditions of its own constitution, as these conditions have been

imposed upon by the Creator of the universe and which,
if
                    it

                                                                                                                         ;
adhered to, infallibly lead man to correct results in his in

quiries into those departments of science on which so much

of his material welfare depends. We find in this self-con

scious endowment of the human mind that faculty which

supplies man with mind higher than, and entirely distinct
                      a

from, the instinctive consciousness of the animal.

    In comparing the emotions, appetites, and desires in the

human self-conscious constitution with the corresponding

      THE ESSENCE OF HUMANITY.                                                       223

affections of the mind in the animal, the nature of the differ

ence which must exist between those emotional affections in

man and the animal becomes evident.

The will in man also
      a                                                     in consequence of his self-con
                           is,
scious faculty, will properly so-called, for is, or ought to
                                                                              is

                                                                                 it
be, determined or regulated by those higher or Divine prin

ciples of thought and belief of which he conscious.
     At this point we reach the solution of the question as to

the essence of humanity. With an animal body and instincts,

man possesses also consciousness involving Divine truth in
                                              a

its regulative principles. But along with this highly endowed

consciousness, the human being has been left free to act

either according to the impulses of his animal, or of his

higher principle. The actual history of humanity, of its

errors, its sufferings, and its progress,                            is       the record of the

struggle between man's animal and Divine principle, and of

the means vouchsafed by his Creator for his relief*

* The subjects discussed in this and the preceding Lecture, are, in some of

t"heLiirferealnadtioOnrsg, antriseaattieodn.  with greater  fulness  in Note  VII. to the Lecture  on
                                               " -- Eds.

VOL.  I.
                                               0

224  THE EKECT POSITION IN MAN.

                  LECTUEE III.

                           THE ERECT POSITION IN MAN.

     1. Having endeavoured in my two previous lectures to lay
before you a brief outline of those fundamental distinctions
between animality and humanity, which must be kept in view

Iin the discussion of every anthropological question, now

proceed to the consideration of certain features which essen
tially distinguish the human body from that of an animal.

   I2. shall devote the present lecture to the illustration of

those human structural arrangements which fulfil the con
ditions of that erect posture peculiar to man.

     3. Of the numerous attitudes in which man can sustain

Ihis centre of gravity, on one or both limbs, select as the

simplest form of the problem the normal or erect position,
properly so-called, introducing occasional illustrations of other
attitudes. The erect position is that in which the body is
placed when all the parts are arranged so as to occasion the

least amount of exertion. In it the spine is erect and the

eyes look horizontally forwards, the arms being pendulous.

It is the position in which the body is conceived to be placed

by the human anatomists in their descriptions.

                     4-- The Vertebral Column.

      The human vertebral column is specially arranged for the
erect position in man, and presents the following peculiarities,
which constitute certain of those adjustments which collec
tively provide for that position.

     a. In the normal position of the human body the axis of

THE ERECT POSITION IN MAN.  225

the vertebral column is vertical No animal form of vertebral
column can be elevated into the perpendicular position. In
apes, in the so-called upright position, the axis is oblique ;
and when these animals are on all fours, nearly horizontal.

In birds, also, it is oblique. In quadrupeds, horizontal.
    b. In no animal form of vertebral column is the column

itself cut by its own axis in five points as in the human

column. In no animal does it pass through a greater num

ber than four. The axis of the human spine is therefore
peculiar in passing across it so frequently.

     c. In no form of animal vertebral column are the second

ary curvatures so highly developed as in the human, and no
animal possesses the lumbar curvature. As the development

of the foetus advances, the spine loses its primary embryonic

curve and becomes straight, excepting a slight bend at the
coccyx : this is the case even in the child at birth. The
curves which appear in the human spine after birth are new or
secondary curves. The corkscrew curve of the tail of the

spider-monkey is probably an original elementary curve. In

the human spine, the neck is convex forward, the dorsal region

convex backward; lumbar forwards, saoro-coccygeal backwards.

There is also a series of lateral curvatures -- dorsal region con

vex to right, cervical and lumbar to left.sacrc-coccygeal to right.

If the lateral and antero-posterior curves are connected to

gether, they resolve themselves into a corkscrew-like curve ;

not the curve of a thread running regularly round a cylinder,
but arranged so as to increase or diminish in their course.

In disease these curves increase ; dorsal to right, cervical to

left, lumbar to left, sacro-coccygeal to right. The anterior
faces of the bodies of the vertebrae in the dorsal and sacro
coccygeal regions, are consequently inclined to the right ; in the
lumbar and cervical to the left. No animal has such a spiral

development as the above. In fish, the only trace of the fun

damental curve is the turn-up of the tail, and probably some

226 THE ERECT POSITION IN MAN.

curvature at the base of the skull. In the monkey's neck

the convexity of the curve is forwards (downwards), in the

dorsal region and loins a continuous curve backwards (up
wards), whilst the sacrum is feebly curved, and the coccyx
greatly. The non-possession of a separate lumbar curve by
animals is a very remarkable fact ; in the proper monkeys no
such curve exists. Lateral curves are feebly marked in the

animal spine.

     d. In no animal does the sacrum develope so much in the

transverse direction, nor present so large an area of articula
tion for the haunch, nor become so much curved as in man.

      e. The centres of gravity of the human trunk and body,
respectively, in their normal erect positions, are situated, the
former in the ninth dorsal vertebra, the latter in the interior
of the canal of the second sacral vertebra. By the term body
is meant the entire frame, trunk, and limbs. Movements of
the heart, changes in the circulation of the blood, in the
liver, etc., slightly affect the position of the centre of gravity.

In no animal can the centre of gravity be in these positions --

it must be situated below the vertebral column.

    /. In none of the mammalia do the articular facets of the

 vertebral column possess such surface curvatures as to admit,
throughout its pre-sacral portion, that amount of torsion
possessed by the ascending portion of the human spine.

      g. No mammal possesses vertebral and trunk muscles so
fully differentiated, and so spirally arranged as in man. The
 muscles of the trunk, obliqui, serrati, etc., are arranged in con
 tinuous corkscrew-like spirals around the body, as was first
 pointed out by E. Weber. The peculiar spiral attitudes into
which the human body can be thrown are explained by the
 spiral curve of the vertebral articular surfaces, and the spiral
 arrangement of the muscles.

      h. No mammal can throw its trunk into those spiral
 curves which subserve the balance of the human frame, and

THE ERECT POSITION IN MAN.  227

confer the peculiar grace and expression of its movements.
Progression in the human body costs less labour than in the

animal. All man has to do is to bend his body forward, and

then bring his pelvis forward by muscular action, the exertion
requisite to do which is determined by the peculiar pendulum
like movements of the lower limbs.

                                 5.-- The Haunch.

     a. The shafts of the human iliac bones are short and
massive ; and the direction of their axes is altogether peculiar.

They are vertical, and in front of the line of gravity. In the

animal they are elongated, oblique from above downwards
and backwards, and in addition are situated behind the line

of gravity. The axis of the human ilium is very important,
because the weight of the trunk is borne upon it.

     b. There are five parts in the haunch-bone of the mammal
-- viz. the sacral articular facet, the pubic symphysis, the
ischial tuber, the anterior superior spine of ilium and the
acetabulum, which, considered in regard to their relative
positions, are quite peculiar in man. The line joining the
sacral articular facet, and the acetabulum, is the axis of the

iliac bones ; the remaining three points form the angles of a
nearly equilateral triangle, to which and to the sides and sur
faces of the triangles, the muscles which balance the trunk

on the thigh-bone are attached. The sartorius, gracilis, and
semi-tendinosus, are the three muscles which are connected to
the angles of this triangle, muscles which are of great import
ance in balancing the body when standing on one leg. The
human haunch-bone is the only form of haunch-bone adapted

for the erect position. It is a lever of which the hip-joint

is the fulcrum, the sacral facet representing the extremity of

the arm for the resistance, the pubic symphysis, the ischial
tuber, and the anterior superior spine of the ilium, the extremi
ties respectively of three arms for the power.

228  THE ERECT POSITION IN MAN.

     c. The vertical direction of the axis of the iliac bone is

due to the lumbar and sacral curvature, and to the pro

montory.

                                   6.-- The Thigh.

     a. The human thigh-bone is relatively longer and more
massive than in any animal form.

     b. In no animal thigh-bone is the neck so elongated and

so oblique as in the human.

     c. In no animal thigh-bone are the areas for the attach

ment of its proper muscles so limited in extent, but at the
same time so precisely expressed as in the human femur.
The linea aspera is only met with in its proper form in man,
and is to be regarded as an area, not as a mere line. The con
centration of muscular attachments on it is a necessary pro
vision for freedom of movement at the hip joint.

     d. The human femur is the only thigh-bone which can be
extended beyond the line of axis of the vertebral column.

      e. The hip-joint can only be fully extended in man, and
in man only does it become immovable in its extended posi

tion. All animals can fully flex the hip.
    /. The human hip-joint is the only hip-joint in which the

extensor area is fully developed. Extension may take place
from 140° to 160°, according to the mass of muscle which is
interposed. This complete movement of extension at the
human hip-joint is not due to any laxity of structure, but to
the presence of a posterior or extensor area on the head of the
femur. In apes and quadrupeds this extensor area is much
more feeble than in man ; in birds it is scarcely to be seen.

     g. The proper muscles of the thigh are in man principally
devoted to the balance of the trunk on the hip-joint. The
corresponding muscles in the animal are chiefly devoted to
the propulsion of the body.

     h. The extension of the human femur beyond the line of

                   THE ERECT POSITION IN MAN.  229

the axis of the spinal column is due to the vertical direction of

the shaft of the iliac bone, along with the complete extension

of the hip-joint.

                   7.-- The Leg.

    a. In no animal are the tibia and fibula collectively so

fully developed and adapted to the actions of the foot, as in

man.

     6. In no animal can the leg be extended into the line of
axis of the thigh.

     c. The human knee-joint is the only knee-joint which ad
mits of complete extension.

    d. It is the only knee-joint provided with a complete

extensor area.

     e. No form of leg presents extensor muscles so powerful

as the human.

    /. The massive flexor muscles of the human leg act mainly

on the trunk

                              8.-- The Foot.

      a. The human foot is a plantigrade foot.
     b. The plantigrade foot in the animal is so constituted

that its five digital columns (axes) are more or less uniformly
engaged in the actions of the foot itself. In the human foot,
again, its four outer digital columns play a subordinate part,
while the inner column, that of the hallux, becomes the axis

of the foot itself.
     c. The four outer or subordinate columns of the human

foot are arranged in two groups -- the second and third forming
the inner group next the hallux ; the fourth and fifth the

outer group.

      d. The human foot has, moreover, its constituent bones
arranged in two longitudinal series, or compound columns.
The outer column, commencing behind, below, and externally
at the heel in the calcaneum, terminates in front and exter

230  THE EKECT POSITION IN MAN.

nally in the three outer toes. The inner column, commencing
behind, and above, and on the inner side in the astragalus at
the ankle, terminates, in front and inwards, in the hallux

and second and third toes.

     e. The integument of the sole of the animal plantigrade

foot presents a pad for the heel, and pads below the metatarso
phalangeal joints. The sole of the human foot has three pads

only, one for the heel, the other two corresponding to the
metatarso-phalangeal portions of its two composite columns.
The sole of the human foot is therefore peculiar, in presenting
a strongly marked integumentary groove or fold indicating the
distinct action of its two columns (Fig. 13).

   /. A line, extending from the outer part of the back of the

heel to the point of the hallux, indicates the dynamic or
proper axis of the human foot.

    g. In full extension of the ankle-joint, along with longi

tudinal curvature of the dorsum of the foot and complete
extension of the great toe, that portion of the axis of the foot
behind the great toe, may be brought almost in a line parallel
to the line of gravity. No animal foot permits of such an
amount of extension.

     h. The human foot is a tripod, the heel and inner pad

being its fixed points, the outer pad the adjustable point.

     i. The human ankle joint is the only complete ankle joint ;
it alone possesses a complete extensor area.

    j. In man alone is the astragalus permitted by the

completion of its articular connections with the calcaneum,

scaphoid, and cuboid, to determine those delicate rocking and
oblique movements of the human foot, which condition also
the varied inclinatures of the limb and body on the foot.

     k. The structure in the ape corresponding to the human

foot is a foot-hand, or manu-ped. Presenting the fundamental

type of the foot of the mammal, it is so modified as to form a
clasping instrument. In certain respects it more nearly

THE ERECT POSITION IN MAN.  231

resembles that only perfect hand, the human hand, than the
so-called hand in the anterior limb of the ape itself.

     I. The ankle-joint of the ape is so arranged as to throw

the sole of the foot inwards, hence the ape walks on the outer
margin of the foot.

    m. In man, while the muscles which act on the toes are

fully differentiated, and precisely adjusted, they are compara
tively weaker than those of the ape.

     n. The deep or primary muscles of the ankle in the ape
are comparatively stronger than in the human subject. The
secondary extensors of the ankle in the ape are comparatively
feebly developed. In man again they assume their complete
form, and constitute the mass of the human calf.

     o. You are now in a position to perceive the nature of
those arrangements in the human body, by which the erect
position of man is conditioned. These arrangements essen
tially consist in a completion of those facets on which full
extension of the lower limbs depends, and on the due co
ordinated curvature of the vertebral column. They are all of
a nature involving the conception of absolutely complete

Istructure, and they also involve, as shall show more at large

in my next lecture, highly important relations to the rational
consciousness in humanity.

232 THE UPPER LIMB IN MAN.

                     LECTUEE IV.

             THE UPPER LIMB IN MAN.

1. The evidence adduced in my last lecture                                  in my
                     I

                                 is
                                                                       is,
opinion, amply sufficient to prove that the erect attitude, in

contradistinction to what must now term the semi-erect

attitude in certain animals, has been conferred on man alone.

3. 2.  The erect attitude in man the principal condition of

that high privilege which he enjoys of the free use of his

upper limbs, in the performance of higher functions than the

locomotory.

       The upper limbs in man are the immediate instruments,

under the guidance of his rational consciousness, of that

power with which he  invested over material nature. Set
                     is
                                    a
free by the peculiar construction of his lower limbs and

spinal column, and presenting peculiar organisation of their
own, his upper limbs act freely in all those relations of space
involved in the human conception of matter.

4.    --The upper limbs, like the lower, consist of proximalaa

element the shoulder, an intermediate element or shaft,

consisting of the upper arm and fore-arm -- and distal ele
ment --the hand.

             ;       -- The Shoulder.
               5.
a. The fundamental peculiarity of the human shoulder

consists in the direction of its axis, which  is     line extending

                                                  a

from the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra to the upper area

of the glenoid cavity and traversing, therefore, the body of

the coracoid portion of the scapula. The shaft of the scapula

                                 TUE UPPER LIMB IN MAN.               233

is inclined outwards and forwards against the axis of the

shoulders, and meets it in the glenoid cavity. The                              i

shaft of the clavicle inclines much more backwards

against the shoulder axis, passes above and abuts  2,
                                                       3,
against the acromion, above the glenoid cavity.           4, ; it,
The axis of the shoulder therefore at right angles,
not only to the axis of the spine, but also to that                           is,
of the haunch (Fig.                                                                   2. i-
                                 is
                                          1).                                                                 1
                                               is
b.  On the other hand, the axis of the shoulder                                              is

of the animal                    oblique, not only towards the

haemal aspect, but also towards the cephalic ex
tremity of the axis of its spinal column that
in an opposite direction to the obliquity of its

haunch, which oblique towards the coccygeal
                                 is
                                         is
extremity of the spinal axis (Figs.                5). The

quadrupedal scapula so oblique that the anterior

ends of the two bones approach one another ante

riorly. These obliquities are of importance in                   Fjg

the animal economy. In the shoulder of the Axis of trunk.
                                                                 Axis of haunch.
horse, for example, the more oblique the scapula3- Axis of shoulder

the better adapted               is          the animal for speed. The scapula

the chief bone of the shoulder, as both the coracoid and

clavicle may for the most part disappear.

                       Fig.a 2.                    a
Outline diagram of                                           3.
                                 Quadruped.                                          Fig.
                                                   Outline diagram of Monkey when in the hori

                                                                             zontal position.

     c. The anatomical conditions which determine the antero:

posterior and transverse obliquities respectively of the1
shoulder in the animal are --

      st, For the antero-postcrior obliquity -- the upward curv-

234         THE UPPER LIMB IN MAN.

ature of that portion of the neck from which the limb is

developed.  This is about the lower cervical and upper

                     Fig. 4.                                 Fig. 5.
     Outhne diagram of a Bird.  Outline diagram of an Ape in its so-called

                                                      erect position.

dorsal region, and the limb is developed at right angles to the

vertebral axis. In man there is not such a curvature back

wards of the lower part of the neck as in the other mammalia.
     2d. For the transverse obliquity --the lateral compres

sion of its thorax --which again, by bringing the quadrupedal

scapulae close together anteriorly, constitutes one of the con

ditions of the locomotory function of the limb.

     d. The human scapulae lie on the neural aspect of the

thorax ; the scapulas of the animal on its lateral aspects.

    c. In no animal does the scapula present platelike expan

sions and margins, comparatively so extended as in man, and

in no animal are the spine of the scapula and the acromion
so fully developed as in man.

    /. In no animal is the coracoid portion of the scapula

proportionately so fully developed as in man. The coracoid

process is comparatively more massive and curved in man ;

and in addition, the coracoid portion of the glenoid articular
surface, which carries the humerus in full extension, is only

fully developed in man.

THE UPPER LIMB IN MAN.                                 235

     g. The scapula and clavicle are more harmoniously
developed in the human than in the animal shoulder.

h. The strongly marked sigmoidal curvature of the human

clavicle, and the peculiar curvatures of the scapular spine

and acromion, are related to the transverse and horizontal

direction of the axis of the shoulder ; for no animal has the

acromial extremity of the clavicle fully developed, nor can the

axis of the acromial portions of their opposite clavicles coin

cide with a common transverse line. The coincident transverse

line of the opposite acromio-clavicular axes in man lies above

the axes of the shoulders, and is parallel to them.

     i. The peculiar carriage of the human  shoulders  (the

square shoulder) is due--

1st. To the position of the scapulae on the posterior (neural)

aspect of the trunk.

2d. To the rectangular relations of the axes of the shoulders

to the axis of the trunk ; and

3d. To the curvatures of the clavicles.
k The movements of the human shoulder are --

1st. Eotation from behind forwards, and from before back

wards, with the clavicle as a radius.

2d. Eotation from below upwards, and from above down

wards, also with the clavicle as a radius. These two rectangular

movements are so co-ordinated that each rotation may take
place, more or less freely, in any given angular position of the
other. The primary plane of the antero-posterior movement

is the horizontal plane of the shoulder ; and the primary
plane of the movement from below upwards, is the transverse
vertical plane in which the axis of the shoulder lies.

     /. As contrasted with the movements of the human

shoulder, we find that on account of the transverse obliquity

of the areas of the shoulder in the mammal, and the lateral

position of its scapulae, along with its horizontal attitude,
the vertical rotation in man becomes an antero-posterior in

 236 THE UPPER LIMB IN MAN.                                      is,

d.the animal ; and the antero-posterior in man not only becomesis
an inward rotation, but is much diminished in extent in theis
  itapes, and is all but eliminated in the typical quadruped.

             a                   6. -- The Arm.

      a. The shaft of the upper limb in man, like that of theis
lower limb, is much more harmoniously developed as regards
their lengths respectively to one another, to the length of the
trunk, and to the lengths of thigh to leg, and of arm to fore
arm, than in the animal. The shafts of the human limbs are
longer in relation to the trunk than in the animal.

     b. In the pendulous position of the human arm, its axis

is at right angles to the axis of the shoulder. This may be
termed the vertical position, or position of passive flexion.
By muscular action it may be carried before or behind the
trunk to about 30° beyond its vertical position ; in such posi

tions it is in full flexion. It cannot be extended appreciably

beyond the level of the axis of the shoulder without moving
the scapula. From its fundamental extended position, in
which it is in a line with the axis of the shoulder, it can be
swept in rotation horizontally forward to about 30° nearer
the mesial plane than its vertical position, and to the same
extent in successive depressions or degrees of flexion, so far as
the interposition of the trunk will permit, on to extreme

flexion.

    c. No animal can fully extend the shoulder-joint --that

bring in line with the axis of the shoulder. The amount
of deficiency in flexion equal to the angle of antero-posterior
obliquity of the shoulder. And again, in proportion to the
increase in transverse obliquity, the limitation of the move
ments of the shoulder at right angles to the plane of flexion
and extension.

         The distinct specialisation, and the great development
of the deltoid in man, in direct relation to the perfection

THE UPPER LIMB IN MAN.  237

and extent of the movements of his shoulder-joint. In full

extension there is a complete rotation of the humerus on its
axis when the palm is turned upwards, which is due to
the spiral twist of the bundles of the deltoid. On the sur
face of the head of the human humerus is a distinct area
devoted to the movement of extension, which corresponds
to the extension area of the femur. The larger figure (Fig. 6)

                                                                      Fig. 6.

is the head of the human humerus, the smaller that of the ape.
The space lying immediately to the right of the dotted line
in the former is the articular area for complete extension
which is absent in the ape's humerus. The coracoid area in the
glenoid cavity is the extensor area of that aspect of the joint.

     e. The shoulder-joint in man is alone provided with com
plete articular areas.

                              7. --Forearm.

     a. No animal, not even the ape, can either fully extend or
fully flex the elbow joint ; nor is any animal capable of com
pleting the movements of pronation and supination.

     b. In the ape, the flexor articular areas are less complete

than the extensor, the movement of extension being especially
required in swinging from tree to tree ; and the groove be
tween the radial head of the humerus and the trochlea, instead
of being nearly direct, as in man, takes the double oblique
course of the ulnar trochlea. The articular surface for the
radius is confined to the anterior surface of the human

humerus, so that it is in the flexed or semi-flexed position

238 THE UPPER LIMB IN MAN.

that the movements of pronation and supination are most

exactly performed. In the ape, the radial articular surface
extends further backwards, so that it takes a share in the

flexion and extension movements of the elbow joint.

                               %.--The Hand.

Ia. shall confine my comparison of the human hand to

the so-called hand of the ape ; and for the purpose of bring
ing before you in a distinct manner the principle which deter

Imines the construction of the human hand, shall confine

my statements to such features of its structure as bear directly

on that principle.

     6. The human hand is the only perfect or complete hand.
In no other is there such a freely moveable thumb, capable of

such complete opposition, which is provided for by the saddle-

shaped surfaces of its carpo-metacarpal joint. The opposition

of the thumb must be distinguished from the apposition of

the great toe, the tarso-metatarsal joint of which admits of

                      movements in one plane only. The

(

                       peculiar obliquity of the metacarpo

                               phalangeal joints of the four fingers

                               must be noted ; those of the index and

                               middle extend downwards into the

                               palm towards the thumb ; that of the
                               ring partially, and that of the little

                               considerably downwards, and towards

                               the ulnar side of the palm. It is owing

                               to this that the little finger possesses

Fig 7                          the power of being opposed to the

outline diagram of the Bkeieton thumb. When the hand is clenched,
of the human hand. The dotted
                                               of the fingDers
jn ^lines indicate the direction of thetiiep1 oints             tend  to the

movements at the metacarpo-
phalangeal joints.             radial gide     skin of th(J palm

certain folds may be seen, which are indicative of the effects

produced on the skin by the movements of the joints. 1st,

the great oblique fold for the thumb. 2d and 3d, two oblique

         THE UPPER LIMB IN MAN.                                             239

folds, the proximal from the radial to the ulnar sides ; the
distal from the ulnar to the web of the 2d and 3d digits.

                                                         Fig. 8.
Palm of human hand, showing the direction of the great tegamentairy folds.

The human hand may be hollowed into a cup, and it can

grasp a sphere. It is an instrument of manipulation co

extensive with human activity.

c. The hand of the ape is an imperfect hand, with clearly

defined points of difference and inferiority, when compared

with the human hand. Its thumb is short and feeble, and

the axes of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations of the

fingers are inclined towards the thumb. It can embrace a

cylinder, as the branch of a tree, and is principally subservient

to the arboreal habits of the animal. Its fingers grasp the

cylinder in a series of spirals. The proximal and distal grooves

VOL. I.                         R

240 THE UPPER LIMB IN MAN.

on its palm are transverse, and not oblique. There are also

radiating grooves, commencing at the carpal end of the palm.

d. The human hand and the hand of the ape are not only

                                hands when viewed morphologically, but

                                they are also hands when considered from

                                the teleological point of view.

                                e. The human foot and the ape's foot

                                are morphologically feet, but the human

                                foot is not only morphologically but ideo

                                logically a foot ; and, moreover, the only

                                perfect and complete foot, whereas the

                                ape's foot is teleologically a hand. The

                                metatarso-phalangeal joints of the human

                                foot all incline outwards from the great

                                toe, due to the direction of the pressure

                                upon them. This outward inclination
                                gives breadth to the foot. In the foot of

                                the ape the metatarso-phalangeal joints

                                all incline in the                /

                  Fig. 9.       same  direction                  I
Palm of ape's hand, showing
the transverse and  radiating"                                      //
tegumentaryfoida.               as the metacarpo

phalangeal joints in its hand. The                  \

foot is consequently clenched like a

fist. In the sole of the human foot

there is a great longitudinal groove,
commencing in front of the heel-pad,
which is the tegumentary indica

tion of the double-columned arrange

ment. In the sole of the ape there

                                                                     Kg. 10.
                                                    Outline diagram of the skeleton
&^»&&^d^^is a long° itudinal °groove which comes

out on the outer side of the great toe,
and corresponds to the thumb fold                      at a° »*«»w*«"«w«>

of its hand.

9. As man enjoys the privilege of a complete and independ

THE UPPER LIMB IN MAN.                                                        241

ent use of his lower limbs, he has in like manner (and to a
certain extent conditioned by his erect attitude) a completely

developed upper limb.

                       Fig. 11.                                Fig. 12.
   Outline diagram of the skeleton of
the human foot, showing the outward       Outline diagram of the skeleton of
movement at the metatarao-phalan-      the ape's foot, showing the inward
geal joints.                           movement of the metatarso-phalan
                                       geal joints.

     10. The principle on which the completeness of the upper
limb in man is based consists in its purposes as an instru-

                    Fig. 13.             Sole of ape's foot, showing its
   Sole of the human foot, show-       longitudinal groove.
lng the great longitudinal groove.

ment for acting on matter, in terms of his human faculty
of thinking in space. His erect attitude gives him reach in

242 THE UPPER LIMB IN MAN.

length ; his power of extending his shoulder joint reach in
breadth ; by means of his hand he can grasp in all the
relations of space.

     11. Finally, in reference to completeness of the human
skeleton with the joints and muscles, man is not only alone
in his erect position, but he alone can lay himself in the
prone and the supine positions. This he is enabled to do by
the antero-posterior compression of his thorax.

      THE INTEGUMENT AND ORGANS OF SENSE, ETC. IN MAN. 243

                         LECTUEE V.

THE INTEGUMENT AND ORGANS OF SENSE AND SPEECH IN MAN.

                            1. -- The Integument.

    a. It would appear to be essential for the economy of every

kind of organism that the general mass of structure should
be invested by an integument.

     b. The integument may serve as a means of preserving
the general form, as a protection from external influences, as
an excretory apparatus, as an absorbent medium ; and, lastly,
as an arrangement for placing the nervous system in relation
to external objects.

    c. All these functions of the integument are brought more

or less prominently into operation by special modifications of
structure in the animal kingdom. But in no animal do we
find the integument so harmoniously developed, for all its
special ends, as in man.

    d. In no animal is the sub-cutaneous fatty tissue com
paratively so coherent and elastic as in man ; nor in any
animal is it disposed so as to afford that strongly-marked but
softened display of the form and movements of subjacent

parts, which contributes so much character to the human
form.

     e. Like the general muscular system, which is fully special
ised in man, the cutaneous muscular system, or panniculus
carnosus, although of comparatively limited extent, is also
fully specialised, and, in this respect, distinguished from the
corresponding system in the animal. No animal presents

244  THE INTEGUMENT AND ORGANS OF

 that complete specialisation of the cutaneous muscular arrange
 ments of the head and neck, which completes the mechanism

 of the eyebrows, eyelids, nostrils, cheeks, lips, chin, and neck
 in man ; and confers on him that power and extent of cor

/poreal expression which he alone possesses.
          The human skin is remarkable for its combined density,

toughness, and pliancy. In no animal are the arrangements

 for permitting the necessary foldings of the skin during the
 movement of the body so elaborately carried out as in man.
 These folds are permanent arrangements co-ordinated with
 the movements of the subjacent parts, and divide the skin into
 areas of greater or less extent. They are developed in their
greatest complexity in the face, hands, and feet; also around
the joints. Although specific in their character, they vary
from individual to individual, but so precisely are they co
 ordinated with subjacent parts, that individual differences in
the conformation of such parts may be safely assumed from
observation of the folds of the enveloping skin.

     g. The oil-glands of the human skin, although widely and
elaborately distributed, do not distinguish it in so marked a
manner from the skin in the higher animals, as the system of
sweat glands ; which latter appear to reach their complete
development, and most extended distribution, in man.

     h. The semi-transparent and iridescent character of the
cuticle in man contributes largely to the characteristic aspect
of the human body.

     i. The distribution and character of the hair in man is

highly characteristic, and indicative of the distinct and

peculiar nature of his economy. In the higher animals, hair
is provided for protection and warmth. It serves more varied

ends in the human economy. That protection and warmth,
which is directly provided for the animal in its hairy covering,
is left to be provided for the human body by its indwelling
intelligence. That sex which, by the very constitution of

SENSE AND SPEECH IN MAN.  245

humanity, is most exposed to external influences in the accom
plishment of his daily labour, is provided with a covering for
head, face, trunk, and limbs, sufficient to afford that kind
and amount of protection which the nature of his economy re
quires in the varied circumstances of climate and occupation.
To a certain extent, and co-ordinate with her conditions of

life, integumentary arrangements of a similar kind are pro
vided for the other sex. These protective arrangements of the
hair in man are, however, altogether subordinate. The prin
ciple which determines the distribution of hair on the human
body, appears to be based on the higher form of the emotional
and aesthetic phases of the human constitution. The charac
teristic aspect of the human frame is undoubtedly due in great
measure to that peculiar variation in the hair development of

its different integumentary areas ; and no one who considers
the subject in all its bearings, can fail to observe the remark
able co-ordination which exists between these corporeal
attributes, and the emotional phase of human consciousness.

In no animal is the direction or arrangement of the hair so

complex as in man.
     k. The sensibility of the human skin is its most important

physiological feature. No animal displays a cutaneous nervous

system so developed as the human.
     I. The plan of distribution of the cutaneous nerves of the

trunk in man, and the higher vertebrata, is identical. But in
consequence of the erect attitude in man, the six rows of

cutaneous nerves, two posterior, two anterior, and a right and
left lateral, are vertical instead of horizontal The vertical

arrangement of these rows of sensitive skin areas, on the front,
sides, and back of the body, are thus specially associated with
that erect attitude, which we have already seen to be a neces
sary corporeal co-ordination with that faculty of the human
mind, by which we are enabled to think in space.

     m. The human skin is characterised by the precision of its

246 THE INTEGUMENT AND ORGANS OF

tactile sensibility, as well as by its full physiological relations

to temperature, pressure, and muscular action. In no animal

are the tactile arrangements on the distal portions of the limbs
so fully developed as in man. No form of ape exhibits the
same complex and relatively minute arrangement of tactile
ridges as in the human hands and feet. These ridges have
centres of evolution and angular points of convergence, as is

the case with the hair in other localities. In the human

hand, the tactile ridges at the points of the fingers are very

complicated, and relatively minute. In the human foot, the

great tactile area is on the outer pad of the foot. The sensi
bility of the human sole is of primary importance in locomo
tion, as in man two limbs only are employed, and the body is
occasionally even balanced only on one foot.

     n. Finally, the human integument is directly developed in
reference to the intellectual and emotional phases of his con
stitution.

                            2. --Smell and Taste.

     a. The organs of smell and taste in man are distinguished
anatomically by their apparent feebleness of development,
and physiologically by their much more extended spheres of
action.

      b. The human olfactory organ is comparatively limited in
extent. The upper wall of the nose --the cribriform plate -- is
parallel to the horizontal plane of the head ; its direction
being indicated by that of the fronto-ethmoidal suture.

     c. The sense of smell in man is apt to be blunted by his
habits of life. But although this sense is actually more
acute in certain animals for special odours ; no animal
apparently possesses an appreciation so extensive of odours
in general.

      d. The structural arrangements which subserve the sense
of taste are not confined to the tongue, but extend along the

                  SENSE AND SPEECH IN MAN.                      247

fauces and palate. All those arrangements in the tongue,is,

fauces, and palate, which adapt those parts to their functionsg. /.is ita
in the process of digestion, adapt them also to the sense of                    is
taste. Of the special adaptations of those parts in man, the3.
most important are the great tactile sensibility of the tongue,
and the horizontal position of the mouth.I

     e. There probably, no difference in the sense of sapidity,
or taste proper, of man and the higher animals, except, per
haps, in its delicacy in man. Animals undoubtedly possess
the sense of flavour in special forms. But there are sufficient
grounds for assuming that no animal can employ his organs
of smell and taste in combination to the extent of apprecia
tion of flavour as exists in man. Many of the sensations
we are in the habit of regarding as due to taste are probably
merely modifications of touch. The positive sapidities are
probably not more than four or five.

         The senses of smell and taste, in their isolated and
combined effects, are associated with the emotions and appe
tites in man, to an extent not generally fully appreciated.

        In the animal both senses are devoted, but in relatively

lower sphere, to certain of their instinctive emotions and

appetites.

                           -- The Eye and Ear.

a. The eye and ear in man being more immediately asso

ciated with his higher interests, present special arrangements,

having important bearings on the subject of the present

course.  I  cannot, in the time at our disposal, enter at any

length into the consideration of the eye and ear in man, and in

the animal kingdom.         shall confine myself to-day to certain

relations of these organs, which shall have to recur to in
                              it
my next lecture, on the head and brain.
                                 is I
b.       The fronto-ethmoidal suture in the human orbit

horizontal, that     to say,         parallel to the axis of the

248 THE INTEGUMENT AND ORGANS OF

head. It is inclined to that axis in the animal. The value

of the angle formed gives the angular value of inclination
of the head. This suture indicates in animals the proper
position of the orbit and head ; when it is horizontal, the head
is in the position of normal obliquity.

     c. The human orbit presents three walls, and in like
manner, when perfect in the mammalian series, it consists
of three walls, the inner, outer, and superior wall. The only
orbit in which the inner walls of opposite orbits converge
forwards is the human, so that in it only, when the orbits

are looked into directly from the front, can the two optic

foramina be seen at one time.
     d. The planes of the apertures of the opposite orbits in

the mammalian series are inclined forwards towards one

another, at an angle which increases as the series descends.
These planes of the orbital apertures are also in a descending

order inclined upwards and inwards. In man the planes

of the orbital apertures coalesce. They are transverse and
vertical. The margin of the human orbit presents at the
same time an oblique double curvature, not observable in the
ape or in any lower form. The margin is co-ordinated with
the great amount of movement of the human eyeball, especially
through the oblique muscles. An inclination of the orbital
plane, upwards and inwards, takes place in the mammalian
series, but not in man.

      e. The human orbit presents the most elongated form, and

most extended outer wall.

    /. These orbital peculiarities of the human skull are spe

cial provisions for a greater freedom and extent of visual direc

tions, but more especially to provide for a more perfect binocu
lar vision.

     g. The semicircular canals of the organ of hearing are

connected with the sense of direction of sound. They are
situated at right angles to each other. No one is situated

SENSE AND SPEECH IN MAN.  249

precisely right and left to its fellow, or to the axis. The little
shelves in the ampullar dilatations at the ends of these canals
lie in three rectangular planes to each other. The antero
posterior canal has its shelf horizontal The posterior has its
shelf facing forwards and backwards. The shelf of the ex
ternal or horizontal canal faces right and left

     h. The horizontal position, which appears essential to the

efficiency of the semicircular canals, and is a marked feature
in man, is provided for in the head of the animal by the same
changes which render its visual axis horizontal.

                                4 -- Voice.

     a. The human larynx is characteristically simple and com
plete in its arrangements. Its special characters are the
mobility of the arytenoid cartilages, the complex curvatures
of the crico-arytenoid articulations, and the total absence of
any superadded acoustic arrangement. The perfection of its
structure is evinced in the purity of its tones, and the extent
of its intonation. The erect attitude in man, by which the
lungs are brought beneath, and the air sinuses of the head
above the larynx, and, in addition, the vertical position of the
organ itself, all conduce to the perfection of the mechanism of

the human larynx.
     b. The cochlea is apparently the structure which controls

the action of the larynx. Both structures are co-ordinated in
the most remarkable manner with the aesthetic phases of the

human conscious principle. They appear also to be intimately
associated, through connections of the ear and the brain, with

the higher forms of associated muscular action. In playing

on musical instruments, the wonderful power of manipulation

which can be attained is not a mere habit. It is due to a

positive nervous mechanism connected indirectly with the
organ of hearing.

250  THE INTEGUMENT AND ORGANS OF

                                   5. -- Speech.

     a. As the instinctive consciousness of the animal provides
each individual of the species with the faculty of acting in
co-operation with its fellows, the social, or other instrumental
signs or signals by which direct intercommunication is
effected, are comparatively simple. As human action, again,
is essentially dependent on man's rational consciousness, it
becomes an important condition of his welfare that a portion
of his corporeal mechanism should be such as to supply him
with a system of intercommunicating signals co-ordinate with
the universality of his conscious acts.

     b. As a special modification of the upper end of the air
tube is provided as the instrument of voice in man and the
mammalia, so in like manner the mechanism of speech is
provided for man alone in peculiar modifications of his buccal
pharyngeal and nasal chambers.

     c. The mechanism of speech is such that certain voluntary
dispositions of its parts induce in the air generally, during ex
piration, certain sounds termed articulate sounds, which may

--be mute or unvocalised i.e., unaccompanied by laryngeal

action as in the whisper, or intoned as in ordinary speech,

which is produced in co-ordination with the voice. It is

wrong to suppose that speech is not provided for by the struc
ture of the mouth. No animal has its lips pouting outwards
like those of a man, not even the chimpansee, in which the
lips are drawn together over the convex rows of the teeth.
Man is peculiar in the vertical direction of his teeth, the pos
terior surfaces of the front teeth being adapted to the tip of
his tongue. The human tongue has scarcely any body, only
root, tip, and margin. The short-vaulted palate of man is
peculiar, and adapted to the dorsum of the tongue. The human
pharynx and fauces are peculiar in the shortness and mobility
of the uvula, which is the chief framer of vocal sounds. The

SENSE AND SPEECH IN MAN.  251

upper pharyngeal chamber is very capacious in man, and
communicates with the nose ; and the frontal sinuses increase

the extent of this chamber.
     d. Languages vary in the number of articulate sounds

involved in their construction. They also vary in their
relative preference for certain forms of articulate sounds.

     e. Articulate sounds are merely the elements, by the com
bination of which, the composite sounds, or words, which

actually constitute a language are formed.

   /. All words are originally appellative --i.e., expressive of

general or abstract ideas or conceptions. Words employed as
special or proper terms, as also words expressive of relation,
are of secondary formation, being derived by modification
from the primordial forms or roots, and applied, in the con
struction of any given language, in a manner determined by
the economy of the linguistic group, to which the language

belongs.

    g. In the course of that remarkable development which

language has hitherto exhibited, and which it is undoubtedly
destined to undergo in the future, and in which older lan

guages apparently disappear and new languages apparently
arise, but in reality only as modified forms of their pre

decessors ; the primordial words or roots themselves become
so much modified, that in the more advanced forms of lan

guage their presence can only be detected by linguistic
methods of research.

     h. The number of possible linguistic roots must be de
termined by the adaptability of the mechanism of speech for
their production. The actual number in use in different

languages is probably determined --

     1st. By the relative difficulty in executing certain forms of

them ;

     2d. By that difficulty in executing certain of them induced
by ethnological differences in the mechanism of articulation ;

and

252 THE INTEGUMENT AND ORGANS OF

3d. By the selection of the more appropriate forms.

i. It thus appears that these composite sounds which

men originally employed as abstract terms have supplied the

roots or primordial forms of all words employed in languages.

k. The same principle appears to determine the process of

acquisition of language by the child. The impressions made
by external objects on the consciousness of the infant appear
to be merely general impressions, as indicated in the terms
employed by it to express them As it advances in its course
of self-tuition, and as the special properties of external bodies,

and their various relations to one another, and to itself, be

I.come recognised by             applies terms of more special and
                                         a
         it

                            it,
                            it
relational character. It thus avails itself, in the acquisition

of its mother-tongue, of the same analytical process by which
every form of speech has been, and will be developed, and by

which, be recollected, all acquired human knowledge has

been attained.

       It would appear, therefore, that as the roots from which

the various classes of words have been derived are expressions

of general ideas or conceptions of the different properties,

qualities, relations, and attributes, of the objects to which

they were originally applied, their original adoption in ac
                                                       is
cordance with the peculiar constitution of the human con
                                                          a
scious principle in virtue of which its special processes areis
       it

           is

                          ;
conducted under those general modes or forms of thought by

which  fitted for the intellectual and moral ends of human

existence. It appears, therefore, incontestable, that the

peculiar character of the human consciousness          the fun

damental condition of speech; and that no animal talks,

because every animal economy      is     conditioned by merely
                                     is
instinctive form of consciousness.

m. As speech therefore                 merely thought  expressed

phonetically,  it  remains to be considered --

SENSE AND SPEECH IN MAN.                                                    253

1st. How man has been led to employ phonetic means to

express his thoughts ; and

2d. On what principle he made choice of certain radicals

to express certain conceptions.
     n. Man, like the animal, has been endowed with an in

stinctive disposition to employ those organs or instruments

which are subject to the will. We cannot doubt, therefore,

that the employment of the mechanism for articulation is

provided for in a co-ordinate instinctive impulse. This instinct
however, is only operative when the sense of hearing is

sufficient, and the perfect use of its appropriate mechanism

can only be attained under the guidance of the ear. The child,

through its organs of hearing, is induced and enabled to imi

tate the articulation and intonation of those around and by
                            it

                                   is
                                          is

                                                                 it,
                                                                                     a
the same instrumental means controls and rectifies its own

imperfect utterances. Speech, therefore, although based on the
conscious principle of humanity, and provided for in an in

stinctive corporeal mechanism,  actually acquired by

combined course of self-tuition and education.

    o. In learning to speak, the child supplied, through its

organs of hearing, with the radicals of its native language,

already developed into the grammatical forms of that tongue.
     The tenacity with which phonetic types, or root-forms,

retain their value in the successive developments of language,

involved in the question as to the principle on which choice
is
     a

                           a
                                                            a
                                                               a
                                                                         a

                                                   I
was made of certain type of articulate combination, to

express certain conceptions. That such choice was the result

of selection and retention of the most suitable out of

numerous provisional forms, appears to be an assumption tend

ing to complicate unnecessarily the entire subject.                         myself

should be inclined to assume, as probable solution, that there
exists in the human constitution, co-ordination between the

possible articulate combinations, and special phase of the

conscious principle, in the same sense as that co-ordination,

254 THE INTEGUMENT AND ORGANS OF

which undoubtedly exists between the physical value of

musical notes produced in the larynx, and the aesthetic phase

of human consciousness. Behind this fact, however, lies one of

the most important questions in anthropology. How was primi

tive speech acquired? Did primitive man, unassisted, determine

in the first place what attribute of a given object should be

selected for its name, and thereafter employ the appropriate

phonetic sign for that purpose ? Did he, fully provided

psycho-physiologically for the development of a form of speech

for himself, gradually accomplish that task ? Or was he, in

his peculiar circumstances, supplied with advantages equivalent

to that early training which facilitates the acquisition of speech
I Iby his successors.
                        shall reserve what have to say in

reference to these questions for a future lecture ; at present,

I Ithat may not be misunderstood, would merely state,

1st, That these questions involve points which cannot be

solved by science or history.

2d, That in these, as in all other great questions in

anthropology, the conclusions to which we come, or the

opinions we may entertain regarding them, ought to be such

as have been arrived at by giving due weight to all the evi

dence, direct and indirect, with which we are supplied ; and

      3d, That my own opinion, regulated by such principles as

I have now and on a former occasion brought under your

notice is this --That man is fitted, by his conscious and cor

poreal constitution, to develope and employ speech, but that

the employment of the faculty by the child demands a certain

amount of preliminary initiation ; and that primitive man,
in his peculiar circumstances, was in this, as in other essential

elements of his spiritual and material welfare, beneficently

supplied with the necessary initiation by an immediate or

Divine process or act.

p. Language, when considered as a fundamental endow

ment of the human economy, and at the same time in its con

         SENSE AND SrEECH IN MAN.  255

tinuous development in the progress of humanity, presents a
double aspect. From one point of view it appears as a
human faculty, from another as the result of human art. But
strictly it has no place among the works of man. Man has
no control over it ; he is merely an unconscious agent in its
changes and progress. The first actual addition made by
man to his faculty of speech is his written language, which
has been followed up by all those arrangements by which
thought and knowledge are recorded and transmitted through
space and time.

VOL. I.  s

256 SKULL AND BRAIN IN MAN.

                         LECTURE VL

                              SKULL AND BRAIN IN MAN.

      1. In bringing under your consideration to-day the relative
 structural arrangements of the skull and brain in man and

Ithe animal, shall not touch on any of those topics which

 have recently conferred on the subject a kind of notoriety, at
 all times adverse to the progress of science, but shall confine
 myself to points which will supply us with data for the illus
 tration of the special object of this course.

                                            The Skull.

        a. The cephalic axis (axis of head) is a right line extend
  ing in the mesial plane, from the anterior margin of the
  occipital foramen, along the floor of the nose to the incisive
  openings, and prolonged to the cartilaginous extremity of the
  nose. The floor of the nasal fossae in man and mammals,
  until we come low down in the series, is remarkably straight
  as far as the incisive foramen, at which there is a ridge. The
  line of the cephalic axis must be taken as a central line, be
  cause in the examination of the axis of the spine we found
  that its axial line came in contact through the axis vertebra
   with the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. The
   assumption of a line which shall represent the axis of the
   cranium involves the idea of its being continuous with that

  of the spine. The axial line of the head is horizontal. In

   man alone does this line touch the posterior as well as the
   anterior margin of the foramen magnum.

                     SKULL AND BRAIN LN MAN.                                      257

b. The cervi co-cephalic angle is the angle made by the axis

of the spine with the axis of the head. This angle does not

exist in the fish and amphibian, in which the axis of the
head and spine forms a continuous line. In reptiles, birds,
-- -- --and mammals, this angle is more or less -- --
                                                                         --

marked, but in none of them does it

reach a right angle. In the different

mammals the angle varies with the                                                 i

species. In man alone is the cervico-                                             |

cephalic angle a right angle.                                 Fig. 15.

 ^S^W*c. In man the occipital foramen,
andi  t,h, e  upper  surfPaces  ofp  t,1he  nasali  reptile,  bird,  or  mammal,  and of
                                                    a man.

fossaj lie in a horizontal plane, the mesial line of which is

the cephalic axis.

    In the animal (mammal) again, the occipital foramen and

floor of the nose lie in two planes at an angle to one another.

The palatal plane, in which the cephalic axis lies, is inclined

downwards at the cervico-cephalic angle. The occipital plane
is inclined upwards from the palatal at an angle which

increases in the descending order of the mammalian series.
     d. In man the cribriform plate, and the line of osseous

attachment of the tentorium, lie in a plane parallel to the

palato-occipital, and therefore horizontal.

    In the animal this plane is divided, so that its cribriform

and tentorial portions are elevated at an angle which increases
with the descent of the mammalian series.

     d. The squamous plate of the occipital bone, and the plane
of the occipital foramen are inclined to one another in man,

at an angle which increases with the development of the

cerebellum. This angle, which may be termed the squamo-

occipital, increases in the descending series of the mammals.

     e. The slope of the basilar process forms, with the line
of the cephalic axis, an angle which diminishes as we
descend the series. This angle --the occipito-basilar angle--

258 SKULL AND DRAIN IN MAN.

is important in the investigation of the varieties of human

crania.

   /. The spheno-basilar angle is the angle formed by the

upper surface of the basilar process, and the floor of the Sella

Turcica. It increases from man downwards, and is a most

important element in the construction of the human skull.

     g. The spheno-ethmoid angle is the angle between the

anterior sphenoid and the cribriform plates. It exists in man

in a more or less developed form ; but so that the cribriform

side of the angle in well-formed heads, horizontal. In the
h.
                          is,
descending animal series the ethmoidal side of the angle rises

so as at last to assume the rectangular position.
         As the nasal bones rise with the cribriform plates in

the descending series, the ethmoido-nasal angle diminishes.

The extent of the ethmoido-nasal angle  is    marked feature of
                                           a

the human head.

         There are three series of curvatures in the construction
of the skull --
i.

                     :

1st, The primordial curvature.

     2d, The secondary or permanent curvatures of the base,
which are represented in the series of occipito-basilar, spheno-

basilar, spheno-ethmoidal, and ethmoido-nasal angles, and the
resultant of which represented in the cephalic axis.

     3d, The antero-posterior and transverse curvatures of the
k.
                         is

                                     is
                                                             it
                                                                        is
vault of the cranium.

         In comparing the secondary or permanent curvatures of

the base of the skull in man and the animal,                                evident that

the amount of curvatures much greater in man than in the

descending series of mammals.

     Moreover, in the greater curvature of his cranium, man
retains in great measure the primordial or embryo curvature,

whereas the lower we go in the series of vertebrata, the more

completely do the primordial curvatures disappear or become

masked.

SKULL AND BRAIN IN MAN.                                                                   259

The greater curvature of the human skull is the fun

damental condition of that enormous additional space afforded

for the human brain, and also for the relatively abundant

space provided for the nasal, oral, and pharyngeal cavities.

We must associate the diminution of the spheno-basilar

angle, and the elimination of the palato-occipital angle, with

the increased depth of the cerebellar fossae, with the horizon

tally of the tentorium, and with the extension backwards,

and vaulted form of the parietal region of the cranium, for the

reception of the posterior lobes of the cerebrum.

Again we must associate the elimination of the spheno

ethmoidal angle, and the diminution of another angle, the

vomerine (to be alluded to in the sequel), with the horizon

tally of the cribriform plate, and of the orbital plates of the

frontal with which that plate is connected, as well as with

the vaulted form of the frontal itself ; and, consequently, with

the great increase in the mass and complexity of the anterior

lobes of the human cerebrum. The same peculiarities secure

for man the inferior position, and horizontal arrangement, of

the nasal chambers, orbits, and oral cavity.

The antero-posterior and transverse curvatures of the vault

of the skull, as well as the curvatures of the fossae on the floor

of the cranial cavity, are anatomically conditioned by the sur

face curvatures of the respective lobes of the cerebrum and

cerebellum. The mass and form of the entire brain is the

condition which determines the volume and curvature of the

several compartments of the cavity which contains                                         while
is I.
                                          is
                                                            is

                                                                   is
                                                                                     it,
the required mass of the entire organ the condition which

determines the permanence of the primordial form of antero

posterior curvatures.

The vomerine angle     the angle between the lower

aspect of the sphenoid, and the posterior margin of the vomer.

It least in man, and increases as we descend the series of

the mammals. The character of this angle the primary con

260 SKULL AND BRAIN IN MAN.

dition of the horizontal depression of the cribriform plate in

man. It is the measure of the depression of the anterior ex

tremity of the human cranial axis -- i.e., it renders it horizontal.
It is intimately related to the vertical position and horizontal
relations of the human nasal chambers, orbits, mouth, and
lower jaw ; as also to the depth and shortness of the facial
portion of the human skull ; and, finally, it is an important
element in the examination of abnormal forms of skull, and
in ethnological research.

                                      The Brain.

      a. The geometrical relations of the various parts of the

Iskull in man and the animal, to which have now briefly
Idirected your attention, will, trust, be sufficient to satisfy

you that the subject demands a much more precise method
of inquiry than has hitherto been employed ; and, in addition,
that it promises results similar in kind to those which we
attained by the application of this method to the investigation
of the trunk and limbs.

      b. The additional space which is obtained in the human
 cranium, like the completed areas of the joints in the human
 limbs, is provided for additional structure and corresponding
 extension of functions. But where, as in the former, the

 additional structures and functions were at once recognisable ;
 in the brain, on the other hand, we can, in the present phase
 of science, only recognise the masses added. Of the structure
 and function of those additional masses we know at present
 nothing, beyond the little which has been ascertained regard
 ing the mechanism and actions of the organ generally.

      c. The anatomy of the masses of the brain is the mere
 rudiment of the subject -- the actual anatomy of the brain is
 its internal mechanism. Till that mechanism has been ascer
 tained in man and the animal, the question as to the human
 and animal brain cannot be solved, and ought not therefore

SKULL AND BRAIN IN MAN.          261

I Ito be discussed in a dogmatic tone.
                                 shall be satisfied if

have succeeded in indicating to you the grounds upon which

I myself entertain the firm conviction that, as the human

brain exhibits in its geometrical proportions and mass a great

superiority over the brain of any animal, a superiority similar

to that presented by the human bones, joints, muscles, and

organs of sense, so, in like manner, it may even now be safely

assumed that under that cloud of ignorance which at present

conceals its inner mechanism, there exists a structural and

functional completeness which will be found to distinguish it

from every other form of brain.

262 TELEOLOGY AND MORPHOLOGY.

                     LECTUEE VII.

                               TELEOLOGY AND MORPHOLOGY.

      To complete the structural comparison of man and the
animal, an examination of their respective arrangements for
nutrition and reproduction should be now introduced. These
two organic systems are more immediately related to the
instinctive or animal department of the human economy,
 and the structures appertaining to them in man differ from
 those in the higher animal rather in their harmonious ad
justments than in special modification.

      The position of man in nature might then appropriately
 now occupy our attention, but as a preliminary to this aspect
 of the question we must examine the value of the differences
 between the structure of man and the animal, to which our
 attention has been directed in the previous lectures.

      The values of structural differences and similarities vary

 according to the anatomical point of view. In this examina

 tion, therefore, we must keep the fundamental principles of
 anatomical comparison steadily before us.

      The fundamental principles of anatomical comparison are
 involved in that twofold aspect which organic structure
 presents, and in virtue of which we are compelled to in
 vestigate every structural arrangement from two apparently
 opposite points of view ; and thus to develope two parallel

 departments of the science --teleological and morphological

 anatomy.
      Teleological anatomy investigates structure with reference

      TELEOLOGY AND MORPHOLOGY.                            263

to its final cause ; that in relation to the ends or purposesis,

for which the structure and its parts have been provided.

Morphological anatomy, again, investigates the laws, the

forms, and arrangements of structure, and entirely excludes

the conception of purpose or function.

These two departments of anatomical science are not

artificial divisions of the subject, but are essential in their

respective characters, as resulting from the constitution of

organic bodies themselves. Every form of animal body
                                            is
more or less composite system, the parts being constructed
                                                                a
and co-ordinated to one another, and with immediate refer            is

ence to its conscious principle, and to its area of action.                 ;a

Every part of its mechanism, therefore,     constructed not

only in reference to other parts of the system, but also in

reference to its entire economy.
     You will now observe that the special anatomy of single

form, or the various special anatomies which collectively

constitute the comparative form of the science, deals with

structural differences rather than with structural similarities

for in the differences lie involved all those co-ordinations --

structural, psychical, and cosmical --which collectively con

stitute species.a
   ;
    As our instinctive belief --that every part of an organic

structure or mechanism, like the mechanism itself, has an
end or purpose in its constitution -- the principle which
                                        is

guides us in the prosecution and application of teleological

anatomy so, in like manner, we are compelled, in extending

our examination of organic structure, to recognise the ex
istence of laws of form and arrangement -- i.e. formal laws in

the constitution of organised bodies and their parts. We

find, for instance, that the entire animal kingdom consists of

forms, which fall into groups of greater or less extent, as

characterised by the mere form and arrangement of the parts

of their corporeal mechanisms. Now, from the constitution 01

264  TELEOLOGY AND MORPHOLOGY.

the human mind, we are compelled to conceive for each of
these groups an abstract conception, or type of mechanism
according to which we find that, however varied the teleo-
logical anatomy of the constituent species of any group may
be, all of these species, nevertheless, possess a mechanism
referable to, and explicable by, the type of the group to which

they belong.

     In like manner, we find that the constituent organs and

textures in a group constitute a formal series, in such a
manner that, irrespective of their teleological differences, our
scientific instinct compels us to express their relations in
morphological laws, by which those relations may be inferred,

and their character denned.

     Organic morphology tends at present in four different
directions :--

     1. In the direction of questions bearing on the existence
of a central type for each organic kingdom, or of one for both.

      2. Towards group types.
     3. To investigation of the types of organs.

      4. To the investigation of the types of textures.

    It is greatly to be desired that the teleological and

morphological departments of anatomy should be kept distinct

in their prosecution and application. The satisfactory ad
vancement of both is entirely dependent on their respectively
distinct methods of investigation ; and many obstacles have
been opposed to the progress of the science of which they are
the common elements, by incomplete conceptions of their re

spective objects and relations.

    It is also much to be regretted that, in the present phase

of our science, morphological anatomy threatens to overshadow
the teleological aspect of the subject. Every question in general

zoology and anthropology is now apt to be treated morpholo

gically ; so that there is a marked tendency to permit the pur
pose or final cause of organised structure to be overlooked.

        TELEOLOGY AND MORrilOLOGY.                                                265

If you keep steadily before you those principles on which

every department of organic science must be conducted, and

Ito which have previously directed your attention --if you

bear in mind that all the organic sciences lie in the boundary

between the various departments of physical science on the

one hand, and of moral and religious truth and belief on the
other-- moreover, you agree with me, that, when any ques
I

            is

             it if,

                     I
                                                                               ;
                                     I
tion in organic science involves an element appertaining to

the higher departments of truth and belief, its higher

relations should be studied -- then,                                              say, you will see

and avoid the danger which threatens the higher rela

tions of anatomico-physiological knowledge in the present

phase of the science.  need scarcely remind you that have
                                                                                  I
strictly adhered to these principles in my previous lectures.                          I

have not treated the anatomical questions which have come

before us on morphological, but on teleological grounds.

deemed  quite unnecessary to inform you that the human

body constructed on the mammalian type, and that there

fore its characteristic features would be found to consist

merely in modifications of mammalian structure.

No one would be inclined to deny that the general aspects

of the human body, and the body of higher ape, resemble
                               aI
                                     Ia
one another more than do the aspects of the frames of the

highest and the lowest ape. But  have, trust, satisfied you
that the human body presents     whole series of perfected

arrangements of structure, bearing immediately on the higher

conscious or rational principle of man-- arrangements which

are deficient in all apes alike, and which thus collectively, by

their absence, distinguish all the apes from man corporeally

as precisely as their instinctive form of consciousness separates

them from man psychically.

266 THE POSITION OF MAN IN THE SCALE OF BEING.

                   LECTUEE VIII.

      THE POSITION OF MAN IN THE SCALE OF BEING.

   I1. In my previous lectures have brought          successively

under your consideration --
     1st, The instinctive character of the animal ;

2d, The combined instinctive and rational constitution of

man;

3d, The characteristic completeness of human structure ;

4th, The danger of overlooking the teleological aspect of

structure in our zoological and anthropological investigations.

   I now proceed in the present lecture to lay before you the

conclusions to which, in my opinion, we are led by this com

prehensive mode of viewing our subject, and so as to indicate

to you the nature of those relations on which the fundamental

dignity of the human body depends.

   I2. must, however, before proceeding with the subject of the

present lecture, bring more fully under your consideration the
principle stated in my last lecture --that all organic science,

but more especially its anthropological department, inosculates
with the higher forms of truth and belief so intimately and

extensively as to render the discussion of the higher questions

as to organisation absolutely futile, if dissociated from their

co-ordinate department of psychological, moral, and religious

truth and belief.

     3. You will acquire  a clearer   conception and a firmer
grasp of this important   principle,
mind --                               if you bear steadily in

1st, That all those departments of organic science which

THE POSITION OF MAN IN THE SCALE OF BEING.  267

deal with the material elements of organisation can only be

investigated, and successfully prosecuted, by the faculties and
methods appropriate for our human acquisition of the science
of matter.

     2d, That the psychological departments of organic science
can, in like manner, only be investigated, and successfully
prosecuted, by the faculties and methods appropriate for the
science of mind.

      3d, That the moral and religious elements in the human
constitution not only indicate, by their very nature, a method
of inquiry and a kind of evidence distinct from those on
which we base our knowledge of matter and of mind, but also
involve, as their absolute character, that immediate relation

which they have to the "intelligent and powerful Being who,"

in the words of Newton, " governs all things --not as the soul

of the world, but as the Lord of the universe; who is not
only God, but Lord and Governor."

    4 It is also essential for the legitimate study of the

higher anthropological questions, that you should have satisfied
yourselves as to the stability of the grounds of your belief in

Ieach of the three departments of truth to which have re

ferred. The material and sensual phase of our human

economy tends to foster rather than to repel a reliance on the
truths of pure science, and thus gives a preponderance to the
study of the structural department of anthropology.

     The apparent inapplicability, again, of mental science,
and the consequent prejudice against its study, as well as the

Isomewhat painful process of self-conscious thought (if may

be permitted to make use of the expression) which its study
demands, have all conduced to withdraw the attention of
anthropologists from the psychological department of the

subject.
     And again, the evidence afforded by the revealed record

regarding the origin, constitution, and position of man, is apt

268  THE POSITION OF MAN IN THE SCALE OF BEING.

to be undervalued or denied in the general discussion of the

subject. The tendency of anthropologists to undervalue this

source of evidence depends, in the first place, on the illegiti
mate application of a legitimate principle, that a question in

science should be decided by science alone. In the second

place, the tendency arises from that reserve in regard to our
higher beliefs, which is the result of the varied and conflict
ing forms which religious belief and thought present in the
present personal, social, political, and ecclesiastical phase of
humanity. In the third place, the tendency to dissociate the

evidence of sacred history from anthropological research, is

due to that deep-rooted and prevalent prejudice, which, dis

sociating the revealed record from the book of nature, leads

to the assumption that those higher truths and beliefs, which

are involved in our human constitution, and the purposes and
results of which are recorded in the book of God's word, for
the direct information and enlightenment of our higher

faculties, towards our final development, should be considered

a department of knowledge and belief quite apart from the
truths contained in the book of nature ; for the attainment of
which truths, and in corroboration of revealed truth, our

intellectual faculties were bestowed upon us.
     I I5. may here observe, that although
                                               have deemed it

necessary, for the full exposition of the subject of this course

of lectures, to put prominently forward an aspect of our

subject, which may be termed non-scientific by those who

Idiffer from us, am not thereby called upon to establish the

legitimacy of that aspect. For, in my opinion, those who
consider it untenable are bound to take one of two courses --

either to refrain from viewing a non-scientific subject through

a scientific medium, and to have recourse to the method of

inquiry proper to a non-scientific department of human know

ledge, or to act upon that sound principle in philosophy and

science which withholds those who may not have made them

THE POSITION OF MAN IN THE SCALE OF BEING.  269

selves acquainted with all the elements of a given question,
from taking any part in the discussion of that question.

   IG. have already, in my first lecture, submitted to your con

sideration the grounds on which the instinctive conscious

principle must be held as the fundamental element of the
animal. This immaterial principle, in virtue of its created

constitution, is the agency which determines the actions and
regulates the processes of its corporeal frame ; not only the
form and construction of the animal body, but also the actions
which it exhibits in support of its own frame, and the further
ance of its purpose in the economy of the world, are strictly
considered by its immaterial element. We are compelled to
 admit, by a process or argument of elimination, that even in

the highest animal, its perceptions --its emotional, intellectual,
and determining faculties are predetermined for it in the con

 ditions of its economy.
      To the immaterial principle, which we are thus compelled

 by an indirect method of research to admit as the essential
 element of an animal, various terms have been applied.

      The -^v/y we hold to be the soul of the animal, irrespective

 of all questions regarding its nature. It must be that in which
 the instinctive consciousness of the animal subsists. It must

 be that, lacking which the organisation of the animal could
 not exist. The organic world differs from the inorganic, in
 that it consists of individual organisms, each of which exists

 essentially in virtue of its indwelling Psyche. It is not for a

 moment to be assumed that the Psyche of an animal is the

 immediate agent in the processes of organisation, or that the
 forces of matter are replaced in the living structure by forces
 of another kind. The forces which act in organisation are

  natural forces, however peculiar the form and arrangements
 of their results may be. We are not entitled to assume more
 than this, that in organisation the material forces are de

  termined, as regards their mode of action, by the indwelling

270  THE POSITION OF MAN IN THE SCALE OF BEING.

power of the Psyche. A force is not a power in itself, it is

merely an expression for a law of action in matter.

      The intimate nature of force is entirely hidden from human
contemplation. Again, in like manner, as we recognise force
in the phenomena of matter by our senses through the intellect,

we recognise power in the fulfilment of the effort of the will

on our muscles, etc., by our self-consciousness, and we may

legitimately, on the principle already stated, attribute it also
to the animal. Power, therefore, differs from force in that the
latter is attributable to matter only. An immaterial power has
been given to the animal so as to put it iu possession of such

efficacy, or deputed power as may be necessary for those peculiar

manifestations of the constructional material forces of its or

ganised body, and the manifestation of those instinctive actions
for the fulfilment of which the organism has been provided.

    7. All trustworthy investigators of this subject have

come to the conclusion that man in his constitution consists

of three elements--a corporeal, a psychical, and a spiritual ;

and the direct, as well as the indirect evidence supplied by
the revealed record, fully confirms this conclusion.

     8. The Psyche in man must be assumed as the instinctive

element of his threefold constitution. Upon its deputed
efficacy depends that determinate and co-ordinate action of all
those physico-chemical forces which are collectively engaged in
the development of his body from the ovum, and in his life-long

structural modifications and physiological actions. In the

form of the human Psyche also are developed all those fully
completed structural arrangements in the human body, to the

Inature and character of which have already directed your

attention. In the Psyche of man also are based all those

instincts, emotions, appetites, and passions, which, stronger,
keener, and more numerous than in the animal, were con

ferred on man for his higher purpose and greater enjoyment,
so long as subject to his higher principle ; but which have,

THE POSITION OF MAN IN THE SCALE OF BEING.              271

under his freedom of choice, become the sources of misery

and death. In the revealed record the term              Flesh,
Iis applied to what may be permitted to designate as a dis

tinctive physiological feature in the human economy, that

combination of the Psyche and corporeal mechanism which

constitutes in man his organism properly so called The

human organism is the animal in man. In it alone does

he resemble the animal Yet, nevertheless, he stands alone

among the organised beings of this globe, in his disobedience

to the laws of that organism, with the power over which he has

been entrusted, in virtue of his spiritual principle, for his own

benefit and enjoyment, and for the final purposes of his creation.

9. The human body, developed under the influence of the

more extended efficacy of its indwelling Psyche, is fitted

thereby to serve as the instrument of that spiritual element

in the human constitution, in which consists the personality

of man.

   I10. have in a previous lecture brought under your con

sideration those features in the spiritual element of man, in

which it differs from the Psyche of the animal and the Psyche

in man himself. We found that in this element consists

the essence of his rational consciousness, in virtue of which

he is self-conscious, capable of thought properly so called ; of

language, which is merely the phonetic expression of thought ;
and of all those conceptions, intentions, and co-ordinated emo

tions, which, manifested in language oral and written, or incor

porated through the instrumentality of his material frame,
constitute those various forms of science and of art-- those

multiform arrangements of social, political, and religious im

port, which distinguish man from every form of animal.

11. Man, in virtue of his possession of a spiritual prin

ciple, by which alone he is capable of thought and speech, and

is impressed with the belief of moral truth and divine agency,
stands alone among the organised beings of this globe.

VOL. I.  T

 272 THE POSITION OF MAN IN THE SCALE OF BEING.

    I assume, also, that you are now prepared to admit that

the existence of a spiritual element in the constitution of any
heing associates that being with the spiritual world, even
 although, in furtherance of his own future welfare, and in
conformity with the arrangements of providence, we find him
provided, at the same time, with an organism adapted as the
present instrumental means of his spiritual agency.

    I believe, moreover, that you will freely admit that an

organism adapted for a spiritual end must necessarily be of a
higher character, and more complete in its construction, than
any organism provided for a merely instinctive being.

     12. As the respective subjects of my present, as well as of

my two succeeding lectures, demand for their satisfactory con
sideration a clear conception and steady grasp of the results

Iof our previous inquiries, shall, before proceeding, put these

results in a categorical form.
      a. The psychic principle in man and in the animal, al

though immaterial in its nature, and therefore recognisable
only by its manifestations through the consciousness, is dis
tinguished from the spiritual principle in man by the immu
tability of its powers and attributes, and the strict co-ordina
tion of these to its proper sphere for each species of organism.

     b. On the other hand, the Pneuma or spiritual element in
man, also immaterial in its nature because only recognisable
by its manifestations through the consciousness, although in
its endowments strictly co-ordinate with the purpose of man
on earth, and with his future eternal destination, is neverthe
less subject to his will, so that, in the present state of man,
the powers and attributes of his spiritual or proper element
are applicable or not, for his present and future welfare, as
may be determined by that freedom of choice involved in the
nature of his human will.

     c. We have already seen that, not only is the individual
economy of an animal fully and strictly provided for in its

THE POSITION OF MAN IN THE SCALE OF BEING.  273

psychical element, but we have also seen that, by the same
agency, the purpose of the animal in creation is secured.

      d. We have also seen that man's capability of existing

over the entire globe, and the peculiar and extended agency
which he exerts in modifying and perfecting certain of its
arrangements, and taking advantage of others for his own
welfare, are due, not to the agency of his psychical or instinc

tive element alone, but essentially to his rational conscious
ness, which again is merely the manifestation of his spiritual

principle.
     e. But we have, moreover, seen that the animal invariably

acts up to the laws of its specific constitution ; whereas man
has a free choice in his actions. The extent, therefore, to

which the agency of man is exerted towards the welfare of his
own economy, the prosecution of his proper function on this

globe, and for his education for a future life, is dependent on
the use which he makes of his faculties in the discrimination

of truth and error, right and wrong, and on the application of

this discriminating power to the control of his actions. All

errors, therefore, committed in the exercise of this discrimi

nating faculty, and all actions induced by such errors, and, a
fortiori, all actions performed contrary to a correct determina
tion, are necessarily contrary to the constitution of the human

economy ; and must, therefore, be essentially detrimental to it.
      13. From what has now been stated, it follows that the

welfare of the entire human constitution, of the organic, as
well as of the spiritual economy of man, is conditioned by the
proper action of the spiritual element itself ; and, consequently,
that we are to look to this higher principle in his constitution
for an explanation of all those circumstances which have co
operated in producing the numerous modifications of his
typical form, and in the recurrence of the many vicissitudes of
his history, which are so distinctive of his race.

     14. In considering the human constitution from the point

274  THE POSITION OF MAN IN THE SCALE OF BEING.

of view we have now attained, we cannot divest ourselves of
the conviction that our spiritual principle, which enables us, in
virtue of our forms of thought, to ascertain the laws of God in
the works of creation, and which also, in virtue of our moral

intuitions, indicates to us those personal and relative duties,
by the performance of which we can alone retain our simili
tude to the Divine nature, could have been bestowed upon us
for any other ends than our own welfare and the fulfilment
of a Divine purpose.

     We have now reached a point from which we may legiti
mately examine the question as to the position of man in the
scale of being.

     The previous part of the course has been devoted to the
elucidation of the following principles :--

      1st, That the specific character, as well as structure, general
economy, and final purpose of an animal are fundamentally

conditioned in its instinctive, conscious, or psychic principle ;
or, in other words, an animal is an organism.

      2d, That the distinctive character of man consists in the
subordination of his organism to his human spiritual

principle.
      3d, That man owes to his spiritual principle that self-

conscious intelligence on which depends his sense of
responsibility ; and

     ith, That the animal kingdom consists of a series of mere
individuals ; humanity, again, of a community of persons.

    If you keep these principles fully in view, you will per

 ceive that those duties to be fulfilled, which collectively con
 stitute the personality of a man, are totally different in kind
 from the instinctive actions of an animal individual. But as

 the duties fulfilled by a man are as essential to his welfare
 in his extended sphere as the instinctive actions of an animal
 are to its welfare in its limited area, so the recognition of his
 spiritual principle, in which consists the intellectual and

          THE POSITION OF MAN IN THE SCALE OF BEING.  275

moral economy of man, is no less essential for the dis

crimination of his position in the scale of being, as the re
cognition of the instinctive economy of an animal is for the

determination of its zoological position.

    Now, if it be a sound zoological doctrine that all the

conditions of life in an animal ought to be taken into account
iu ascertaining its position in the zoological scale, so in like

manner ought the spiritual economy of man to be taken into

the consideration of the question as to his relative place in

the animal series. To my apprehension, his possession of a

spiritual principle entirely excludes him from the scale of

Imere animal being, even although he possesses an animal
organism.  shall endeavour, in my next lecture on Ee-

trogressive Man, and in my succeeding or concluding lecture

on Progressive Man, to elucidate more at length the supre
macy of the spiritual principle in the economy of man. But,

Iin the meantime, to bring the present lecture to a close,

must now ask you to consider whether that completeness of

Ithe human body, to which have directed your attention in

my 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, and 7th lectures, does not also entirely

exclude man from any legitimate place in the animal

kingdom.

276 RETROGRESSIVE MAN.

       LECTURE IX.

       RETROGRESSIVE MAN.

1. The human race is characterised by the great varieties

which exist between different peoples. The question is not

unfrequently asked, Was not man originally savage ? Was
Ihe at one time near the brutes ?
                                     believe that man was not

originally savage, and that the less civilised races are not

undeveloped, but degraded forms.

2. Man, in virtue of possessing a spiritual element, stands

alone amongst the organised beings of the globe. The exist
ence of this element associates the being possessing it with
the spiritual world. An organism adapted to a spiritual end

and capable of acting in space in the most perfect manner, must

be more highly developed than one not so adapted. Man's
body is formed on a rectangular system-- that he can extend
                                     is,
                                               is
his limbs so as to place them at right angles to each other.4. 3.

        The results of our inquiry are -- 1st, the psychical prin

ciple in man and animals, although immaterial,     distin

guished from the spiritual in man by the immutability of its

powers and attributes, and           especially adapted to each
                        is
species. The pneuma, or spiritual element in man, alsois

immaterial, and only recognisable by its manifestations

through consciousness,  strictly co-ordinate with man's

sphere of action on earth and his future destination. It is,

nevertheless, subject to his will Not only the individual
                                     is is
economy of the animal strictly provided for, but by the same

agency the purpose of the animal in creation secured

       Man's capabilities of existing over the entire globe, and

RETROGRESSIVE MAN.  277

the peculiar extended agency which he exerts, are due not
only to the agency of his psychical instinct, but to his rational
consciousness, which is provided for by his spiritual element.

The amount of good he does depends upon the use he makes
of his faculties. The welfare of the entire human constitution,

organic as well as spiritual, can only be conditioned by a
proper action of the spiritual element. This has always to be
remembered in looking for an explanation of all the varieties
of race and of individual personal character. 'Why, then,
should man alone, of all the living beings on this globe, have
been left so unfettered that his welfare should depend on his

own choice ?

     5. Herein lies the great mystery of humanity, on the
existence of which depends that religiosity which is charac
teristic of every form of the human race. The conscious
ness of untruth, and of error in some form or other, exists in
every modification of man ; and it is equally certain that all
the vicissitudes of human history, and all the distress against
which man has had to struggle, have been directly due to his
tendency to untruth, and his liability to error.

      6. 1 need scarcely remind you that these statements are
not merely scientific in their character. The grounds on

Iwhich believe them are not scientific grounds alone. The

evidence on which you have satisfied yourselves regarding
them is involved in moral science, and in those statements of

that revealed record by which our higher beliefs are en

Ilightened, confirmed, and sustained. The statements which

have submitted to you, regarding the dependence of our
human economy on the wellbeing of its spiritual element, are

unanswerable ; and therefore, on the grounds already submitted
to you, the principle itself must necessarily be employed by
the anthropologist in the discussion of any of the higher
questions of his subject.

   I7. would lay it down as a principle, that whereas we

278                  RETROGRESSIVE MAN.

are not to look to the revealed record for scientific forms of

statement, we are, nevertheless, from its character, entitled to

assume, that wherever statements are made in bearing on
the intellectual, moral, and religious departments of the
economy of man, in their relations to his material economy
a
         8.
                                                                                 it,
and conditions of present and future existence, the sense or
bearing of these statements will not only not be contradictory

to, but, on the contrary, confirmatory of, the scientific results
of human research.

     We are informed in the revealed record that in the

primitive phase of his existence the economy of man presented

more perfect form, and that he existed under conditions

commensurate with the complete fulfilment of his welfare.
We are also informed, in terms which, whatever their imme

diate import may be, at least involve the statement, that man

lost his primitive form of economy, and his more favourable
conditions of welfare, by the erroneous use of his higher or

spiritual principle, by his preference of untruth to truth, of

error to rectitude and that thereupon humanity became

subject to all those ills which have chequered its progress.
         The statement which have now made involves truth
     9.                                                                               a
                                                                                        a
               it
                                                                                           is
                       ; is
                                                                                               it
                        it ;
                              is

                         I
which belongs to the departments of the moralist and theolo

gian. But            one which cannot well be neglected by any

thoughtful mind and from our point of view, looking at

as anthropologists,  full of interest, asis it     in fact funda

mental principle in the science of the human economy.is

     10. As the time allotted to this course of lectures too

brief to admit of detailed illustration, and as the inculcation

of sound and comprehensive principles      of primary import

ance in such subjects as this course has been devoted to,                             I

shall, in concluding this lecture, merely indicate the tendency
of my previous statements.

11. On the grounds already stated, we are bound to guard

ourselves against the conscious or unconscious assumption,

RETROGRESSIVE MAN.  279

that the development of humanity can be legitimately or
safely investigated as an anthropological subject, without
reference to the primitive condition of man as presented to us
in the revealed record.

     12. As we deduce all the personal and social misery of
man on this globe from his erroneous choice of action through
neglect of his higher principle of belief, so in like manner
we are bound to attribute to the same source the causes
which have produced all the so-called forms of savagism and
imperfect civilisation, as well as the so-called imperfect forms
of human structure as presented to us in our ethnological or

archaeological inquiries.

   I13. Finally, hold that liability of man to disease is

intimately related to the neglect of the dictates of his higher

principle.*

     * The reader will find a fuller statement of the author's views on this mat
ter in the "Address to the Graduates" and in that to the Medico-Chirurgical
Society. -- Eds.

280 PROGRESSIVE MAN.

                         LECTURE X.

                                         PROGRESSIVE MAN.

    1. In my last lecture, after showing you that the discus

sion of any fundamental question in anthropology must
necessarily be based on three convergent lines of evidence --

Ithe physiological, psychological, and theological -- proceeded

to the consideration of the question of primitive man. From

Ithe comprehensive character of the evidence afforded us,

laid before you what appeared to me sufficient grounds for
believing primitive man to have been, not a savage, but man
in his originally perfect form, fitted by the undegraded
character of his spiritual element for immediate converse
with his Creator, in whose image his spirit had been framed,
and by whose instruction he was initiated [in regard to
his moral and spiritual nature ; guided to the use of his
faculty of speech, and to the application of his intellectual
powers, in the investigation and appropriation for his own
welfare of the objects and living beings by which he was sur
rounded*

   I also submitted for your consideration the grounds on

which we must, in my opinion, hold that the phase of
humanity in which we ourselves live is a secondary phase,
in which man has lost the completeness of his primitive
economy, and his more favourable primitive conditions of

    * It may not be out of place to refer to the recently published work On

the Antiquity of Intellectual Man, by Prof. C. Tiazzi Smyth, in which a con
clusion similar to that expressed in the text has been arrived at from the con
sideration of a different line of evidence to that employed in these lectures. -- Ens.

            PROGRESSIVE MAN.                            281

existence, as evinced in the degraded and helpless condition

into which the greater part of humanity in all ages, as well

as in the present, has fallen, and not less so, in the unsatis

factory aspect which our modern so-called civilisation pre

sents ; and that, therefore, had humanity in its present phase

been dependent on its own resources, as the animalI                   no
                                                                 is,
section of could have resisted the retrogressive tendency, or
2.
have opposed the obstacles to that progression on which the
       it
hopes of man are fixed.                             would now

        In the further prosecution of our subject,

observe that while we are compelled, on the grounds already

stated, to view all the less perfect forms of humanity as retro

grade forms of earlier or later date, produced by independent

but similar moral influences, we are at the same time brought

to see in the present phase of humanity progressive series
            a
                                 a
of advancing forms of society, series continually increased by

collateral additions, but extending backwards uninterruptedly

to the commencement of the phase. The twofold retrogres

sive and progressive character presented by the history of

man from every point of view peculiar, and completely dis
3. is
tinguishes his economy from that of any animal, and at the
   if I
same time constitutes as important feature in his physiolo
            ;
gical as in his political and moral aspects.
                           a
As have already told you, we are not called on here

to define,  that were possible, the entire economy in the

primitive condition of man nor to inquire into the specific

nature of that change which took place in his economy on hisis

entrance into his present phase of existence. It sufficient

for our present purpose that we are assured of the fact that

the change in the economy and welfare of man was the result

of an act which involved breach of his moral principle.
            a
                      is
Now, we have already examined the grounds on which we

must hold, that as the psychical  the primary and control

ling element which secures the welfare of the animal, and

fulfils its purpose in nature, so, on the other hand, the spirit

282 PROGRESSIVE MAN.

in man is that element in his economy on which his entire

welfare depends.
     Now, as the moral department of the spirit involves the

higher relations of our being, and assuming that you are

acquainted with the grounds on which our moral, and in

fact spiritual economy, involves responsibility, and the con
sequences of such responsibility, it will be evident to you that
a breach in the moral department of our spiritual element

must affect the integrity of the entire human economy.

   I4. By the term " entire human economy," mean the en

tire economy of man, as manifested in his physiological,

Iintellectual, and moral capabilities ; and am anxious that

you should distinctly see how it is that the integrity of our
corporeal or physiological frame, the applicability of our in
tellectual powers, and the free action of our moral faculties,

do all depend on the condition of the spiritual element of our

being.

     5. We have now reached a point from which we can look

back to the subjects of my first and second lectures. In the

Ifirst lecture explained to you how the welfare and purpose

of the animal are provided for in its merely instinctive form

of consciousness, in virtue of its psychical element. In my

Isecond lecture explained how the welfare and purpose of

man on earth are provided for in his rational consciousness,

in virtue of what you will now recognise as his spiritual

element.

We may now consider, therefore, the nature of animality

as consisting in a physiological structure, conditioned by an
immaterial element of a merely psychical character --i.e. as

before explained, an animal is a mere organism.
     The essence of humanity again consists in the human or

ganism -- t.e. the combined physiological and psychical element,
co-ordinate with, and subject to, the control of a spiritual

element.  The essence of humanity in fact consists in a

spiritual element of which the co-ordinate organism is the in

PROGRESSIVE MAN.                                 283

strument. Thus, 1 hold with those anthropologists who do not

place man in the animal kingdom, so that he is not to be re

garded as an ordinary subject for zoological inquiry. The

relation of man to the animal which is next to or immediately

below him cannot be determined. Man is a perfect being in

his structure, and is excluded from all animal forms by his

completeness. We cannot conceive an animal preserving the
Ifvertebrate type developed beyond him.
                                            man were, as some

suppose, at the head of the animal kingdom, some ape should

be found to stand immediately beneath him ; but the apes are

all related to each other, and grouped around a type which is

that of an ape.

   I6. As have already, in my last lecture, directed your atten

tion to the two aspects presented by humanity in its present

phase, and characterised these aspects as Retrogressive and

Progressive, it is in my opinion very important that you

should satisfy yourselves as to the stability of the principle

that these two aspects are essentially dependent on moral

Icauses. The entire question, as have already told you,
                                                 a
                                                                is,
like other fundamental questions in anthropology, compo
site question --its most important factors being theological

and moral, and such as in my position here, have merely
7.

                     it
                           I,
to allude to. But may be well, at this point of our inquiry,

to illustrate the influence of moral error from physiological
                                              a

point of view.                                If the various
         Let us take the case of the animal.

instinctive acts, by the performance of which the animal pro

vides for its individual wants, and fulfils its various functions

in relation to its own kind, and to its end as species, be
considered, they arrange themselves into three groups, viz. --
                               ;;
                                             a

                                                           it
1st, Its actions in relation to itself 2d, its actions in

relation to its fellows of its own species and 3d, its actions

in relation to its performance of those purposes for which

was created, and placed in its given area.

284           PROGRESSIVE MAN.

     These groups correspond respectively to the actions of a
man --

     1st, In relation to himself ; 2d, in relation to his neigh
bour ; 3d, in relation to his Creator. But as the entire cor

poreal integrity of an animal, and the applicability of its
instinctive capacities are dependent on the invariability of its

instinctive actions, the welfare of the economy of an animal

is never modified beyond its determined limits by any error
in its actions towards itself, its fellows, or its Creator. Its
economy is continuous ; it cannot of itself induce either a

retrogressive or a progressive form of its economy.

    From what we have already seen, it is evident that if we

may be permitted to assume the addition of a spiritual, that
is of a responsible, element, to the constitution of an animal --

then its three groups of relative actions would be elevated to

the rank of duties to be performed, which again would involve
the correlative errors to be avoided, and the consequences of

such errors.

     8. The neglect by man of the three groups of duties
which collectively conduce to the end or purpose of his

creation, is undoubtedly the source of those deteriorated forms

of his economy which together constitute his retrogressive

aspect. You will, of course, clearly understand that the

Istatement have now made not only does not exclude but

fully admits the influence of all the cosmical and physical

elements or conditions of ethnological, national, political, and

social differences in humanity. But as man was placed on

this earth to fill and to subdue  evident that, in so far as
     9.I

            it
                 is

                                                 it,
                                               it
                                                        is
                                                                                is
he has permitted such cosmical or material influences to

detract from his spiritual efficiency, he himself to blame,

and that      now his duty, in his present phase, to develope

his progressive form, under the conditions provided for that

purpose.

          need not remind you that the conditions provided

         PROGRESSIVE MAN.                    285

for man, to enable him in his present phase to counteract

the deteriorating tendency of his spirit-element, and so to

work out his proper end, are those conditions which, an

nounced to him at the commencement of his present phase,

have assumed, under Providence, that form of belief, and

that kind of motive to action, which we term Christianity.

    10. It would be out of place to enter here into detail as

Ito the influence which Christianity has exerted on man.

would only impress upon you, as students of science, that

science, properly so called, had its origin within the Christian

era ; that its progress is one of the results of Christianity ;
and, moreover, that one of the greatest dangers to which the

Christian system is at present exposed, is the erroneous

tendency to elevate science above the other forms of human

belief.
I11. Gentlemen,
                 thought it necessary to touch upon
Ithis subject -- trust in a manner due to its nature --for the

purpose of enabling you to comprehend more clearly the

Istatement which made in a former part of the course, that

the human body derives its completeness and its entire charac

ter from its adaptation to its special purpose, as an instru

mentality under the guidance of the human soul towards the

end for which man was placed on this globe.

286 ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

II.--ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION*

fThe gradual augmentation of acquired knowledge is the re

sult of many series of contributions, originally independent,!

which, converging as they advance, and coalescing more or
less intimately with one another, finally assume their per
mitted positions § in the mass of human knowledge.

     Every subject of investigation, however isolated it may
once have been, absorbs in its progress, || and then assimilates,
minor collateral inquiries ; and is itself destined to resign its

original independence. Certain sciences coalesce easily, and
their union is hailed by their cultivators as a triumph of the
common cause. Other sciences coalesce with difficulty, and
their anticipated union is distasteful to their respective inves
tigators. This difference primarily depends on the necessary
existence of fundamentally distinct modes of inquiry in each

department of investigation. It depends secondarily on the

greater or less difficulty of the final step necessary to effect

the union ; and on the comparatively few inquirers who

possess either the original or the acquired power of adopting
two or more fundamentally distinct modes of investigation in
the prosecution of an essentially complex subject. Only such
a mind as that of Faraday, which admits of the simultaneous
conceptions of the chemist and the physicist, could have

guided into one channel the different departments of his
varied subject ; and the remarkable results of recent physio-

* This Lecture was delivered by request to the members of the Royal Medical

Society, in their Hall, in 1856, and has not previously been published. -- Eds.
t Note I. page 299.
                     t Note II. page 300.   g Note III. page 300.

                     || Note IV. page 302.

        ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.  287

logical research in Germany could only have been induced
by the influence of an intellect like that of Johannes Miiller,
which is equally at home in the domains of the natural,

physical, and psychological sciences.
     There are, therefore, certain subjects of inquiry which at

certain epochs in their progress are obstructed by peculiar

difficulties. Such an epoch occurs when one subject is about

to merge into another, or when a particular subject, complex
in its nature, has reached that stage in its progress at which

it must henceforward demand for its investigation, two or more
fundamentally distinct modes of inquiry. At any epoch of this
kind, in the progress of any science, an attempt should be made

to determine its present position, to define its real obstacles,
and to ascertain whether the previous mode of inquiry had
involved all the fundamentally necessary methods of research.

     The science of organisation has reached an epoch of this

kind. It has become absolutely necessary for every one

engaged in the study or investigation of the science to make
himself acquainted with its present circumstances, and to
ascertain the probable direction of its future course.

   I propose, in this lecture, to give a brief summary of my
Iown views on this subject, and would here express the
Igratification which feel in having an opportunity afforded

me of stating these views to the members and visitors of a
society which has for a long period been largely instrumental
in the development and propagation of organic science.

     Three distinct groups of subjects engage at present the
attention of physiologists :--

1. The structure and actions of the living organism con

         sidered as a chemico-physical system.
2. The numerous forms in the series of organisms, embryo

and adult, viewed as modifications of certain abstract

organic forms or ideal types,

vol* t  u

288  ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

     3. The connections between the corporeal and psychical
             elements of organisation.

     The structure and actions of the living organism, con
sidered as achemico-physical system, have at all times furnished
the principal subjects of anatomico-physiological research.
The structure or anatomy of this system, and the actions or
functions of its constituent parts, form, in fact, the mass of
physiology as usually understood.* The progress of this
perfectly natural and absolutely necessary line of inquiry

has been more or less retarded at different periods by the

tendency of physiologists to complicate and divert the investi
gation, by assuming the immediate agency of a presumed
principle of vitality. Overlooking the philosophical conditions
of the question -- that there are at least two series of facts to

be determined in the living organism, differing fundamentally
in kind, and therefore requiring fundamentally distinct methods

fof research, physiologists have been too apt to consider their

science as throughout independent of others, and they have,
consequently, opposed serious obstacles to its inosculation, in
certain of its departments, with the physico-mathematical

sciences on the one hand, and with the psychological t on

the other. We have now, however, reached an epoch
from which we may proceed to investigate the chemico-
physical properties of the living organism, with less risk of
being misled by false theories of vitality, and without dread
of collision with the philosopher or theologian. The chemico-
physical properties of the living organism, strictly investigated
by the legitimate methods of chemical and physical research,
have yielded the principal triumphs of recent physiology.
And there is now, at least, an assurance that in addition to

the precise processes of modern chemistry, the physiologist

     * Note V. page 303.  t Note VI. page 303.

     t Note VII. page 307.

ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.  289

must henceforward be prepared to employ in his researches
the mathematicc-experimental methods of physical science.

     The advance which has recently been made in ascertaining
the structure and actions of the living organism considered as
a chemico-physical system, consists -- 1st, of the recognition
of the depth and extent of chemical action in the economy ;
2d, of the evidence latterly afforded of the primary importance
of the electrical force in the organism generally, but more
especially in the actions hitherto considered more essentially
vital ; 3d, of the detection of the connection between the

chemical and electrical actions of the organism, and its recently
discovered microscopic structure ; 4Ah, of the successful

efforts made to determine by physico-mathematical methods
the precise forms and reciprocal mechanical actions of the

different parts of the organism.
     The second group of subjects which at present engages the

attention of physiologists, is the investigation of the numerous
forms of organisms, embryo and adult, viewed as modifications
of certain abstract organic forms, or ideal types. These subjects

constitute morphology, properly so called. Although an
essential element of physiological science, morphology is only
of recent growth. Its development was retarded for many
years by the influence which results from the fundamentally

peculiar nature of the subject. It is peculiar in this respect,

that it does not contemplate at all the actions or uses of parts,
but only their presence, their forms, and their relations in
any one species of organism as compared with other organisms,
and with a view to the determination of the general plan,
according to which they have all, each after its kind, been

constructed. The influence which has retarded the progress
of morphology, as it has retarded other departments of science
and philosophy, is that difficulty which the generality of minds
experience in conceiving the possibility of any phenomenon

or action having a double relation -- of its being conditioned,

290 ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

not only by the necessities of the individual system of which
it is a part, but also by the unity of the entire scheme of the

universe.
     The third group of subjects which at present engages the

attention of physiologists, is the connection between the
corporeal and psychical elements of organisation. The views
of these subjects taken by different physiologists differ
according to the philosophical principles which they have
severally adopted under the influence of individual intellectual
tendency, or of education. Three tendencies characterise
present opinions on these subjects. These tendencies may be
distinguished as materialistic, idealistic, and spiritualistic.

     That mind is a product, or a function, of the matter of the
organism, is a dogma which cannot be considered as at present
on the decline. Within the last two years it has been re
asserted and supported with extraordinary dogmatism. " As
contraction is the function of the muscle, as the kidney
secretes urine, and the liver bile, in like manner the brain

produces thoughts, determinations, and feelings." These are
the words of Carl Vogt, and they express the opinions of a
considerable section of the most accomplished naturalists,
physiologists, and physicians in Germany.

      The idealistic opinions on these subjects, based on the
assumption of the identity of matter and mind, are now on
the decline in that country where the philosophy on which

they are based took most extensive root. In Britain this

system of philosophy, although nowhere more ably advocated,
has never even partially influenced physiology.

    It is remarkable that the recent advance of Physiological

Chemistry and Physics, while it has produced increased
confidence in the materialistic doctrine, has nevertheless
afforded for the first time a physiological confirmation of the
essentially spiritual nature of mind. The high probability
that the complex structure of the brain consists only of

ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.            291

 peculiarly arranged groups of nerve-cells, connected by nerve-is,
 fibres, and that its actions consist merely of polar forcesis
 acting as physical currents along the nerve-fibres, and induced
 by external agencies, or by the nerve-cells of the organ itself,a
 while it may confirm the expectations of the materialist, and
ithas apparently excluded the mind from any appropriate
 locality--has, in fact, placed its essentially peculiar character
 ou its proper basis.

     It is important to observe that the three groups of subjects

 into which Anatomy and Physiology have latterly become de
 veloped are in themselves essentially distinct, and demand for

 their investigation fundamentally distinct methods of inquiry.
 The chemico-physical group requires for its development the
 experimental and mathematical methods of the chemist and

 natural philosopher. The morphological group can only be
 investigated by an intellect naturally fitted for, and trained in,

 the peculiar essentially formal method of the natural sciences.
·The third group demands the exercise of the human self-

 consciousness on itself, and the application of the results to
 the elucidation of psychical manifestations generally ; it
 demands, in fact, the altogether peculiar method of philosophy
 proper, and of inductive psychology.

     It moreover, important to observe that these three

 departments afford no immediate promise of coalescing.
 They have come into contact, and are advancing parallel
 to one another, but there apparently no immediate relation
 between the laws which respectively regulate them. The
 nature of the connection between the chemico-physical pro
 perties of the living organism and its psychical manifesta
 tions will, in all probability, continue mystery. But with
 equal confidence may be asserted that the crowning triumph

 of physiology will be the reduction of the teleological and

 morphological principles of structure to one central law.

       Having now endeavoured to ascertain the present position

292  ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

Iof the science of organisation, propose, before proceeding

farther, to consider briefly the more remarkable characteristics
of the living organism.

     Every living organism is a distinct system, the constituent
parts and powers of which are not only reciprocally adapted
to one another, and to the whole, so as to subserve the internal

economy of the system ; but are also so adapted as to enable
the entire organism to fulfil "the external conditions of its
existence. The living organism, although a distinct system,

is not an isolated one. It is a part of the Cosmos, and as
such has three sets of relations --its own internal or structural

relations, its relations to other living organisms, and its
relations to those localities within which the primary con
ditions of its existence have been determined. These three
sets of relations are provided for mainly by the corporeal
structure and actions of the organism ; but the first and third
are, to a certain extent, and the second is chiefly, fulfilled by

the psychical powers. These three sets of relations are, more-'
over, so connected with the structure and constitution of the
organism, that we cannot, in our investigations into the nature
of life and organisation, omit the consideration of any one of

them. It is a fundamental canon in philosophy, that all the

conditions of any question must be taken into consideration.
So, in this complex question as to the nature of the living
organism, we are bound not to overlook one set of its relations
while engaged in the investigation of the others. While
tracing the relations of the bodily structure to the internal
economy, and to the external conditions of existence of the

organism, we must not overlook the corresponding psychical

powers with which it is provided ; nor, while inquiring into
its psychical manifestations, can we omit the consideration of

its somatic peculiarities.

   IHere would also observe, that in attempting to solve

the question as to the nature of organisation, physiologists

                    ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.                            293

have not only been too apt to overlook the various relations to

Iwhich have already alluded, but also to keep out of view

certain peculiar chemico-physical characters presented by it.

They have been too much inclined to view its parts merely as

portions of a machine teleologically adapted to one another ;

and to neglect those structural features and distinctive actions

in which it differs from any ordinary mechanism.
     Organisation is never met with except as part of an organ

ism --that of an individual material living system.
    is,
               is
                                                                     is
      The organism born, or commences its life, as the pro
duct of one or of two parents of like kind with itself.

The living organism invariably dies.

The duration of the life of every organism                               specific,

varying only within certain restricted limits-- the causes of

the variation being contingent circumstances in the condi

tions of its existence.

The matter of the organised frame, to its minutest parts,

in continual flux so that what                              permanent in the
is                       ;
                is
                                            it

                                                     is is
organism not the matter of which                          composed, but, as far

as the ordinary exercise of our senses enables us to determine,

its form only.

     The chemical constitution  of each group the ultimate
organised parts of the frame
chemical constitution of each    specific. In like manner, the

                                part of our ultimate organised
                              is
                                                        of

ispart different.
     The ultimate chemical elements of the organism are

merely certain of the ultimate chemical elements of in
organic matter. But the secondary, or organic chemical
principles, although some of them have already been pro
duced artificially, and although all of them will probably
be ultimately formed by the chemist, are never met with
in nature except as the materials of, or in connection with,

organisation.
     The forms of living bodies, and of their parts, even of

294           ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

their minutest structures, are peculiar. They seldom, pro

bably never, present straight margins, flat surfaces, or angles.

They are very generally spheroidal, but never absolutely

spherical. Ellipsoidal and paraboloidal surfaces are met with,
and still more complex forms occur in connection with that

essentially organic curve, the spiral. Curves of double curva

ture, surfaces with complex geometrical relations, constitute

the predominating forms in organisation.
     As the matter of the living organism is in continual flux,

so we find that the fresh matter which is constantly added to

it becomes united to not at its outer surface, or at the outer
     ;

                            it,
                                                                is

                                                                                            is
surface of any of its minutest organised parts, but in its

interior at every part of which, again, the fresh matter

united to the ultimate organised particles, not at their exterior,

but by passing into their interior, to be distributed therein for

final union.

     Connected with this latter peculiarity the remarkable

series of phenomena presented during the development of the

organism, while still in connection with, or after detachment

from, its parent. Science recognises no process of develop

ment except that of the individual organism from pre-existing

parents of the same unalterable species. The development of

the organism resembles no other series of material changes in
any system in nature. Even the minutest part of an organ

ism, however complicated  may be, evolved or unrolled
                          it

                                              is

from within outwards. Cell after cell, fibre after fibre, organ

after organ, each in its own peculiar but strictly organic

manner, appears at the centre of its own organic district.

They make their appearance at set times, at stated periods,

and in ever-increasing numbers, to the close. Passing off from

their original centres, they assume their proper places in the

composition of the complex machine-cell, commencing origi

nally in the interior, but frequently protruding during the

process, parts of slow become enveloped by others of more

              ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.                      295

rapid growth, to be again exposed, at a future stage, by the
opening out or unfolding of the enveloping structures. The

more profoundly we examine the development of the simplest

plant or animal, and still more so if we contemplate the pro

cess in the more complex beings, do we become satisfied that

this process is peculiar to organisation.

On the principle that all the conditions of a question

should be considered in attempting to solve we may ask
                                                 is it,
what   is   there remarkable in the constitution of one of the

higher animals, in addition to the mere chemico-physical?

mechanism and teleological adaptations of its frame, and in

addition to the peculiarly organic peculiarities already enu
merated --Assuredly its psychical manifestations. Without

entering at present into the question as to the difference

between the psychical constitution of the brute and the mind

of man, this much cannot well be denied, that there in the
                                                         is

constitution of the brute an essence which not material.

The evidence of the existence of psychical essence in the
                                  is a
brute necessarily indirect. We infer its presence, however,
       is

with sufficient certainty, by comparing its psychical mani

festations with the conclusions at which we arrive by the

exercise of our own peculiar self-consciousness and we are
                                                   is ;
supported in our inference by the concurrent intuitive opinion

of mankind in regard to it.

This psychical essence varies in its endowments in dif

ferent species of animals. It           specific for each species,

individual in each individual. It manifests itself less and less

distinctly, and evidently more simple in its character the
       it
           is

                      is

                        it
lower         in the scale of being. In plants,  it      not mani

fested in proper psychical acts.

Ilere, however, must be recollected, that in the embryos

of the higher animals the so-called mind of the animal       is

latent and that in man, before birth, the entire psychical and
       ;

spiritual elements of his constitution are in the same condi

296 ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

tion. The psychical essence exists only potentially in the

embryo of the higher animals. It is suddenly and fully

evolved after its birth by the influence of the senses under

the peculiar conditions of the instinct. In man, again, it is

more slowly evolved by the influence of the senses, condi

tioned by his peculiar spiritual self-consciousness.

   I have alluded to the latent or potential condition of the

psyche in the embryo of the higher, animal and of man, for
the purpose of showing that there is nothing unphilosophical
in the admission of a psyche in the plant. We are quite en
titled to state, as a legitimate hypothesis, that in every indi
vidual plant there is an indwelling psyche ; more simply
endowed than that of the lowest animal ; specific for each
species of plant, and therefore incapable of further evolution,
never manifesting itself in psychical acts appreciable to us,
and performing only the lowest function of the animal psyche,
constituting the psychical form in the presence or midst of
which the organisation is co-ordinated.

     If, then, a psychical element be admitted to exist in every
living organism, we may reasonably inquire how far its pre
sence has to do with the organising process.

     We know nothing of the mode in which mind acts on
matter, or in what manner matter reacts on mind. We know,

however, that both actions occur in the brain. A physical

current, the result of polar forces, passing along a nerve-fibre,
and reaching a group of connected nerve-cells, is immediately
followed by, or contemporaneously accompanied by, a psychi

cal condition --that of sensation with perception. But, what
is more to our present purpose, we now know that another
psychical condition -- a determination of the will-- is accom
panied by, or immediately followed by, a physical act in a
single nerve-cell, or in a group of nerve-cells, from which cell

or cells there immediately proceeds along a connected nerve-

fibre a physical current --the result of polar actions --which,

ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.                                                      297

when it has reached a muscular fibre, induces its contraction
-- also a physical act.

    In the present phase of science, it would be unphilosophi-

cal, and could not be admitted by the physicist, even as a

hypothesis, were we to state directly that a psychical power

and a physical force can act and react on one another. But,
Iwith such facts as have already adduced, a mutual influence
Iof some kind must be admitted.
                                 am strongly impressed

with the belief that on the cautious and philosophical inves

tigation of this mutual influence depends the future elucida

Ition of the peculiarities of organisation. At present prefer

stating the relation between the psyche and its organism as one

of co-ordination. Its actual nature we shall probably never

determine ; its laws we may presume to be within our reach.

   I would here observe that the extent and nature of my
Isubject, and the limits within which am confined, have

compelled me to state my views in a somewhat dogmatic
style. To have treated it satisfactorily, the opinions of at

least the principal philosophers and physiologists of ancient

and modern times should have been adduced and examined

in reference to the more important subjects discussed.* In the

Imeantime, will merely state, categorically, the views which
I have endeavoured to embody in this lecture, in order that

there may be no misconception regarding them.
Every living organised body --that
is                                                                             every individual
                             a

                                                             ;

                                                    a
                                                       is
                                                                        a is,
plant and animal, according to its kind or species --contains,

or contained in, psyche which not mere co-ordinated

system of material forces, but distinct essence, the source,

more particularly, of the psychical manifestations.

We are alike ignorant of the mode in which matter acts

on matter, as of the mode in which mind and matter react.

As, however, we do know that mind does act on matter, and
conversely -- as in the instances of the will inducing physical

. . * Note VIII. 322.p.

298 ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

currents in the cells and fibres of the brain and spinal mar

row ; and of physical currents in the spinal marrow and brain
inducing sensation -- it would be equally unphilosophical to

deny, as to assert, that psychical power and physical force do
immediately influence one another in the living organised
body ; or to assume, as an element in physiological research,
that the indwelling or containing psyche is the source of or

ganic form, or that it influences chemico-physical forces to

that effect.

   I therefore state, provisionally, that the corporeal structure

of the organised being is co-ordinated with the specific en
dowments of its psyche, so that they act and react harmoni

ously.

     The psyche is latent in the plant, as it is in the higher

animals during its embryo condition.

    In the animal series, the psyche, distinct for each indivi

dual, and specific for each species, is more highly endowed,
according to the elevation of the animal in the scale.

     The psyche regulates the actions and habits of the animal
in accordance with its corporeal structure ; and the conditions
of its existence has a code of laws, to which we apply the

term instinct.

     The psychological constitution of the animal, and its
peculiar form of consciousness, are conditioned by the in

stinct.                                              in regard

    It is unphilosophical to entertain the question

to the mortality of the psyche of the brute.

     Physiological considerations, psychological and philoso
phical induction, and the precise statements of Revelation,
prove that man, in addition to his body, with its chemico-

physical properties, and his psyche, which is the co-ordinated
form of his organisation, and the source of his instincts,

appetites, and passions, possesses also his pneuma, which con
stitutes his personality, is the essence of his peculiar self

         ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.                        299

consciousness, the ground of his proper intellect, and the
conditioning element of his moral faculty, and of his religious

belief. It is the possession of this pneuma which distinguishes

man from the animal. Possessing, like the animal, a body

and a psyche, he may descend, if he will, to the level of the
brute. But he has also had it put in his power, in virtue of

his pneuma, to participate in the conditions of a higher sphere
of existence.

   I am compelled, therefore, to assume, as the guiding prin

ciple of my physiological studies, that the living organism is
a co-ordinated system of psychical powers and physical forces ;
and that, except as part of such a system, organisation cannot

occur.

                Note I--p. 286.

         " THE GRADUAL AUGMENTATION."

All the subjects, regarding some of which man has had a certain

amount of knowledge revealed to him, and for inquiry into others

of which he has had appropriate faculties bestowed upon him,

form parts of a whole which is throughout in perfect harmony with

itself.

The human mind, although limited in its capacity and capable

of acting only to the extent of the powers bestowed upon
         a it
               is

                                                          ;

                                                                is

                                                                                it
                                                                                              it,

                                                                                                               is,
nevertheless, within its own sphere of capacity and of action,
formed and endowed in perfect harmony with that whole, regarding

which,   permitted to inquire, and to obtain knowledge.

All acquired knowledge, properly so called, must therefore be

in harmony with the whole and the entire mass of human know

ledge, revealed and acquired, in its proper form, at any given epoch,
must be in accordance with that whole, of which in fact consti

tutes part. Acquired knowledge  the result of inquiry by

individual minds, into subjects more or less numerous and distinct.

But, as all minds have the same general constitution, and are

regulated in the process of inquiry by the same laws of thought,

and as, moreover, they are all formed in harmony with that whole,

300 ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

the separate parts of which they are investigating ; the fragments of
knowledge acquired by each, however discordant they may appear,
are yet, in fact, only apparently so.

     These fragmentary acquisitions are all necessarily related to the
common centre of the whole. As, therefore, they increase, or when
the serieses of which they form parts extend, they must do so

towards the centre. In the process of convergence they must

necessarily, according to their proximity to one another, sooner or
later coalesce, in which act their former apparent discrepancy
vanishes, and their results assume their real appearance as parts of
the common whole.

                            Note II.--p. 286.

                             " ORIGINALLY INDEPENDENT."

     The independent origin of the different departments of acquired
knowledge is a consequence of the finite conditions of human
thought. These finite conditions, necessarily excluding from a
central point of view, and compelling the inquirer to examine any
subject from one aspect only at a given time, can permit a know
ledge of that subject which, although true, is only partial. He may,
for instance, acquire a knowledge of a given subject from the chemical
point of view, from the electrical, and from the mechanical. But
these three kinds of knowledge regarding it are in a great degree
independent, and must continue to be so, until chemistry, electricity,
and mechanics shall have coalesced more completely than they have
yet done, and thus permit a view not from a mere chemical, elec
trical, or mechanical, but from a new and more central position.

                          Note IIL-- p. 286.

                       "their permitted positions."

     Absolute knowledge must have a centre, from which and to

Ifwhich, all its parts must be necessarily deducible and referable.

human intelligence could push its inquiries forward to that common
centre, the result would be knowledge of the Infinite. The con
sciousness of the impossibility of approaching that centre by the
ordinary exercise of the human faculties has induced the various

                  ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.        301

attempts which have been made by philosophers to explain the

derivation of created things, and even to unveil the nature of the

Deity, by assuming to contemplate them from the centre of

Absolute Being. But as human intelligence can neither reach that

centre from the periphery, nor assume it at will, and is unable,

therefore, to view the whole from a central position, human know

ledge must ever remain only fragmentary. It can only amount to

as much as has been immediately revealed to man, together with

the continually-increasing but finite acquisitions made by the

exercise of his definitely limited faculties.      It is the result
     Knowledge is augmented by a twofold process.

of the exercise of the active faculties, conditioned by the laws of the

consciousness. In as far as it results from the exercise of the former,

it may be conceived to be approached from the periphery ; as con
ditioned by the latter, it may be conceived as related to the centre.

But as the active faculties are limited, and the consciousness strictly
conditioned, it is evident that at no time can acquired knowledge

be other than fragmentary.

    Each department of acquired knowledge will therefore, at any

given epoch, have reached its permitted position in the mass ; that

is to say, such a position in relation to the centre, as the conditions
under which the human faculties are limited permit it to assume.
" Conscious only of--conscious only in and through limitation, we

think to comprehend the Infinite, and dream even of establishing

the science, the nescience of man, on an identity with the omni

science of God. It is this powerful tendency of the most vigorous

minds to transcend the sphere of our faculties, which makes a

' learned ignorance ' the most difficult acquirement, perhaps, indeed,
                                 " There are two sorts of
the consummation of knowledge."

ignorance ; we philosophise to escape ignorance, and the consum
mation of our philosophy is ignorance ; we start from the one, we

repose in the other ; they are the goals from which and to which

we tend ; and the pursuit of knowledge is but a course between two

ignorances, as human life is itself only a travelling from grave to

grave." --(Sir William Hamilton's Discussions on Philosophy, etc,,

pp. 36 and 601.)

302              ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

                       Note IV. p. 286.
                 "absorbs in its progress."

The gradual absorption of one science by another is merely a

higher form of induction, and a necessary consequence of the finite

nature of the human faculties. We acquire knowledge as we

ascertain the peculiarities of a country which we enter for the

first time from the sea. We are compelled to approach all subjects

of inquiry ab extra. We become aware at first only of their salient
points ; as wo advance in our examination, the points dilate into
masses ; and as we at length fairly enter a particular district of

investigation, the points and masses blend more or less completely

into one harmonious whole, or confuse and distract for a time by

their number and complexity.  The isolated phenomena and

observations which gave origin to magnetism, electricity, galvanism,

electro-magnetism, thermo-electricity, organic electricity, and the

physiology of the nerve-fibre, were salient points of a number of
apparently independent subjects, but which, in the progress of

discovery, have blended more or less completely with one another,

and will undoubtedly, at no distant period, form one continuous
whole. And so it is with every other department of inquiry.

The mind is therefore necessitated, from its finite nature and the

laws of its constitution, to prosecute inquiry in different directions

and from different aspects, and thus to amass for itself departments

of knowledge, at first independent, but destined sooner or later to

blend together. This blending together of different departments

again results from their accordance with the whole (rb  as far

as we are capable of investigating it. We can never comprehend

the rb it ; but we can apprehend as much of it as our senses and

self-consciousness, framed in harmony with
      it
             it

                  ; is
                                                                   it,

                                                                                                                                                 ;
                                             are fitted to reach.

And thus         that acquired knowledge must ever be fragmentary

that  has originated, and will originate, in centres apparently

independent which again, in as far as our faculties permit, will

expand and blend into masses, which will be but portions of the

infinite whole.

                    ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.                                     303

                          Note V. p. 288.

" THE MASS OF PHYSIOLOGY, AS USUALLY UNDERSTOOD.'1

The older philosophers applied the term physiology to the so-

called general science of nature, and nearly in the same sense as the

Germans at present employ the terms naturphilosophie and

naturwissenschaft.  (Naturphilosophie is employed to designate

the science of nature in its widest sense, from the ontological point

of view, and consequently by the philosophers of the idealistic

schools. Naturwissenschaft is applied to the subject viewed as
Inductive Science --that
                          viewed in strictly scientific sense.)
                          is,
                                               a
                                                                               ;
                              Note VI. p. 288.

          " FUNDAMENTALLY DISTINCT METHODS OF RESEARCH."

     The subjects of Human Inquiry may be arranged in four
groups, distinguished from one another by the fundamentally
different modes in which their constituent facts, usually so-called,
are attained. These groups are mental and moral, or, to employ
the term in its original sense, Metaphysical subjects and subjects
of Mathematical, Experimental, and Observational research.

     The constituent elements of Metaphysical subjects of inquiry,
are reached by the exercise of the Human self-consciousness, turned
inwards on itself. The facts thus attained are facts attained by
consciousness alone. The ultimate facts of Moral Science are,
moreover, not only recognised by the consciousness as " the law
engraved on the heart," but are, in addition, made known by direct
revelation.

     The constituent elements of Mathematics are derived from the
ultimate universal truths of Space, Number, and Limit and which
are, therefore, immediately recognised by the consciousness.

     The constituent elements of the Experimental sciences aro
reached by experiment, under the guidance of legitimate Hypothesis
that by means of process of tentative, constructive, and there
fore active examination through the senses.

     The constituent facts of the Observational sciences are procured

      VOL.
is,
     I.

                             a
                                              X

                                                                                                                ;
                                                                                                                                          ;

304               ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

by tho similar, but comparatively passive process of examination

through the senses, termed Observation.

    It is to be observed that there in general,
                          is,                               great difference
                                ;
in the facility with which individual minds can work in these
                                                    a
different modes of procuring and arranging data. Certain minds

work easily in Mathematical, others in Experimental or Observational

research. Few minds are capable of that peculiar power of ab

straction necessary for Metaphysical and Psychological inquiry. It

to be noted, also, that there are comparatively few minds which
is is
          iscombine two or more of these powers and such minds are, in

               avariably, under favourable circumstances, the most successful in

conducting research.

      These fundamentally different powers or capabilities are innate                a;
certain minds being naturally more or less highly endowed with

one or more of them but every sound mind possessing them to
                      ;

greater or less extent. Each of these powers, therefore, after its

kind, capable of being developed by judicious training. The

evolving and exercise of these powers, in due proportion, con

stitutes primary element in sound general education while tho
                          a
                                           is,

                                                                           ;
education for particular professions demands as complete de
                                                                              a

velopment as possible of at least one or more of them.

     All scientific, or other inquiry,  however, fundamentally

regulated by tho laws of thought. For these laws, as they are the

conditions under which the Human Intellect works, cannot be dis

pensed with, and consequently constitute the logical process in                      ; is,
every train of inquiry. Every sound intellect necessarily -- that
                          it
                               is

                                                        is
instinctively regulated, more or less, by the Laws of Thought

but the extent to which   so regulated, depends upon that

assiduous training, with this special object in view, and which

ought, therefore, to constitute another of the primary elements of a

sound general education.

     There are, therefore, in all inquiry, two steps to be taken. The
elements or facts of the question, of whatever kind these elements
may be, must be laid hold of; and the logical process must bo

brought to bear upon them for further analysis or reduction, and

reference to their proper position in the system. There                       is     dif
                                                                                  a

ference between metaphysical and mathematical inquiry on the one

hand, and experimental and observational on the other, in the

ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.                                                                       305

mode in which these steps are taken. In Metaphysical inquiry,

the mind examines through her self-consciousness, her own con

stitution, and the necessary truths and principles of reason --that
    knowledge and existence. She does so in tho full assurance
is,
                                   is is
                                                                                          ;

                                                                                             ;
that her constitution in exact accordance with these necessary

truths and principles. In the Mathematical she also examines, by

means of her self-consciousness, necessary truths for the element

ary data of the mathematician are merely necessary truths in

relation to number, space, and limit. She proceeds in such in

quiries with perfect confidence in the stability of her data, because
                      in exact accordance with all truth. It thus
her own constitution

appears that metaphysics and mathematics, dealing with necessary

truths, require, for their successful prosecution, merely an aptitude

for seizing their fundamental elements and the correct appli

cation of the logical and inductive processes of the intellect to

these elements. But, in experimental or observational inquiry,

the mind must act through the senses. In dealing with matter, in

all its forms, the mind cannot dispense with those channels of in

formation, through which alone, according to her constitution, she

enabled to apprehend external nature. The so-called facts of
is
               ;

                                      it is,

                                                                                  a
                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                                                      
Observational or Experimental science reach the mind, therefore,

through the senses, and are consequently characterised by all the

ambiguity inseparable from their medium. They are apparent,

not real they are phenomena, not noumena. They differ from
the elements of metaphysical and mathematical knowledge, which

are necessary and immediate truths, in this respect, that they
must be interpreted -- that
                             reduced to thinkable form, or in

troduced to the sphere of necessary truth. The process of reduction

to a thinkable form must he effected in every instance of expe

rimental or observational inquiry, from that of the most elementary

phenomena up to those of the solar system. It constitutes the

inductive method, in its ordinary acceptation by means of which

alone mind advances in the midst of surrounding phenomena, and
reduces them to the absolute truths of Force -- Space -- Time--

Number-- and limit. Be       observed, however, that this dis

tinction between metaphysical and mathematical inquiry, on the

one hand, and experimental and observational on the other, does

not consist in the immediate apprehension of noumena in the case

30G  ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

of the former, and in the immediate analysis of phenomena in the
case of the latter; hut merely in the double analysis which the
latter kind of inquiry involves -- or more correctly in the extension
of the analysis to the phenomena themselves. The inductive
process must be followed in both kinds of inquiry ; but in the
metaphysical and mathematical it rests immediately on ultimate
and necessary truth, while in the experimental the phenomena
themselves must be analysed, so as to be introduced into the sphere
of ultimate and necessary truth. The inductive process is not,
therefore, confined in its application to experimental and observa

tional, but extends to metaphysical and mathematical inquiries.
The induction, in the case of the latter, lands at once in necessary
truth ; while, in the former, the phenomena themselves, on which
the inquiries are based, must be subjected to the analytical and in
ductive processes, before the subject can assume a thinkable form.

     The inductive process, more particularly as employed in expe
rimental and observational research, consists in the provisional
construction or assumption of a law applicable to the phenomena,
and in testing this assumption by renewed experiment or obser
vation. If, after sufficient trial or observation, the assumption

holds good, and, more particularly, if it indicates, and, on trial,
reveals results not previously known or anticipated, it may be

safely held as established in its present form, and the so-called
facts it involves may be said to be explained or inducted.

      The assumed or provisional law always involves some mediate
or immediate form of ultimate or necessary truth, upon which
depends its capability of being thought. The human mind is in
debted for its power of framing such hypothetical or provisional
laws, with the view to the discovery of actual laws, to the en

dowment of a divine element by its Creator, in virtue of which it
is formed in accordance with all truth, and in harmony with all
created things, and so is enabled to see, dimly it is true, into sur

rounding phenomena, but with sufficient clearness, when its gaze is
legitimately directed, to seize upon their probable relations, so as

to test them by necessary truth, and previously acquired knowledge,
brought to bear upon them under the guidance of the laws of

thought.

ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.  307

                           Note VII. p. 288.

                          " AND WITH THE PSYCHOLOGICAL."

      Psychology is to be carefully distinguished from Metaphysics,
which is the science of the relations of Being, Knowing, and

Thinking.
     Metaphysics have no place in the province of Natural History ;

but Psychology is one of those sciences from which the naturalist
is obliged to borrow, in his efforts to investigate the properties of

organised beings.

    It is a great mistake to consider Psychology as a subject, mysti

cal, vague, unsubstantial, and affording nothing which can be applied
to practical purposes. On the contrary, it is a purely inductive
science, dealing with facts and their generalisation. Psychology,
however, differs from ordinary inductive science in this respect,
that the facts with which it deals are not attained through the
bodily senses, but by the mental consciousness.

    In the prosecution of ordinary inductive science, the mind
throws herself out, as it were, upon external nature, even upon her
own organism, if that be the subject of her inquiry. In this act

she becomes aware of certain so-called facts, to her at first merely

phenomena.

     But, in the investigation of her own constitution, she turns in
upon herself, and attains the facts of Psychology, not by sense, but
by consciousness. The facts of Psychology are not phenomena, but
noumena, in the broad sense of the term. They are not, however,

less certainly facts on that account.
     The advance of Psychology, as a department of Anthropology,

is opposed by no difficulty other than that inherent in the nature
of the subject. But as a department of general Zoology, it has to
encounter difficulty in collecting facts.

     We must not, however, be repelled by this difficulty, or hold
with Bonnet that philosophers will make no progress in the subject
" until they have spent some time in the head of an animal, with

out actually being that animal."
     Wo determine the characters of the mental acts of our fellow-

men, by observing certain corresponding corporeal actions.

308 ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

     We may therefore reasonably expect, by the careful investiga
tion of the habits and actions of animals, aided by cautious general

isation, to derive much important psychological knowledge. Such

knowledge will ultimately assume the form of a sub-science --

Comparative Psychology.                                     through
     The facts of Human Psychology are attained directly    Psycho

the consciousness ; but the generalisations of Comparative

logy must necessarily continue to be indirect.

We must, therefore, compare the facts and laws of the Psychology

of man, with the indications or manifestations of apparently similar

facts and laws in the brute.

   It will at once be admitted, that the central fact of our psychi

cal constitution is the existence of a power within us, in virtue of

which we possess the faculties of Knowing, Feeling, and Willing.
    To this power we may apply the term Intelligence-- employing

Ithe word in the broad sense of which it is susceptible.    believe,
     That a corresponding power exists in the brute will,

be generally admitted.

     There appears, however, to be a very marked difference between this

power as it exists in man, and even the highest form of it in the brute.
    In man it is fully evolved, capable of being scrutinised as an

object by its possessor.

    In the brute it is semi-evolved, and, as we shall in the sequel

find grounds for concluding, unconscious of itself.

    It would appear to exist in the simplest forms in the simplest

animals. As we extend our observations up the animal series, it

appears, as recognised by its manifestations, in forms more and
more complicated, in species above species, but never reaching,
even in the Orang, the stage of self-consciousness.

     Intelligence always manifests itself in connection with certain

organs and parts of the animal.

    It is not, however, produced by, or secreted from, these parts or

organs, but only, as has been already stated, evolved parallel to,
and in harmony with, their development.

    In the study of Comparative Anatomy, much success has been

attained by commencing with the examination of the simplest
forms, and extending our observations upwards, in a series of in

creasing complexity.

                   ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.                     309

A similar course naturally suggests itself for the prosecution of

Comparative Psychology.

     Selecting animals with the simplest structure, and the least
complex external relations, and applying to the explanation of their

psychical manifestations the elementary facts and laws of Human

Psychology, we may reasonably expect indications of the nature of

such manifestations.

     As we are compelled, at the same time, by the nature of our
subject, to proceed from the knowledge of our own psychical con- '
stitution, let us inquire what is the first stage in the evolution of

our own intelligence.                      It awakens contempo

    It would appear to commence at birth.

raneously with the arrival at its seat of certain of those so-called

impressions made upon the surface of the body of the infant by
the new medium into which it has entered.

Some of these newly-arrived impressions are intended to co

operate in the economy of the organism (reflex actions) ; but others
are immediately related to the awakened intelligence, and with

them only we have at present to do. They are the impressions on

the organs of the senses.                                                                              In
    Of these latter impressions the intelligence becomes aware.

technical language, sensations are produced. The being experi

ences sensations.

To ascertain the nature of sensation, we must analyse its so-

called phenomena in our own consciousness, and combine the
results with what we know of the economy and actions of the

corresponding organs of the nervous system.
     Sensation may be defined to be apprehension, by the intelli

gence of impressions transmitted to its seat from objects in the
surrounding medium, or in its own organism.

3. 2. 1.
                 is
                                a
                                                  ;

                                                                                   :

                                                                                                  is,
This apprehension would appear to be immediate ; that the

apprehension       not process for, as Sir William Hamilton has

pointed out, we cannot discriminate Sense from Intelligence.

    A process must be admitted, however, in the act of sensation.
It would appear to consist of three parts --

          The impression on the organ of sense.

The transmission of this impression along the nerve.

The recognition by the Intelligence of what has been trans

310               ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

initted along the nerve to the vesicular matter of the central nervous

organ.
     This process of sensation, then, lies partly without, partly

within, the consciousness. The impression on what is called the
sensible part, and the transmission along the nerve, are beyond the
consciousness, and would continue so were its passage interrupted ;
but when it affects the nervous centre, it enters the region of con
sciousness, it becomes recognised, and assumes the form of a

psychological fact.

    It must be observed, however, that the apprehension now

under consideration is entirely subjective. The intelligence merely
apprehends an affection of itself. There has taken place no appre
hension whatever of the object which produced the impression

transmitted and recognised.

     The apprehension of the object itself requires a higher phase
                  It requires a power of interpreting the sensa
of intelligence.

tion, or of apprehending it in a form peculiar to the kind of sensa

tion, whatever that may be.

    The intelligence now no longer apprehends a sense --a mere
affection of itself -- but it apprehends an object from which pro

ceeded the impression which induced that sense.

     This peculiar intuitive power possessed by the intelligence of

objectifying a sensation, is denominated, in the language of ancient

Psychology --Perception.

     We have now reached the point at which may be recognised

the difference between the intelligence in man and in the bruto.

     From the first moment that the intelligence of an animal is

awakened by sensations, and contemporaneous with the correspond

ing intuitive perceptions, it becomes conscious. It becomes con

scious of external objects, as out of itself, and as having certain

relations to itself. It is able immediately and directly to determine

the position and other relations of the objects it perceives, in

relation to the surface of its own organism.

    It is enabled to do this immediately and directly, under the
influence of a power, acting according to certain laws -- a power

to which we apply the collective term -- Instinct.

     In man, again, where his intelligence has been awakened by

sensations, and contemporaneous with the corresponding percep

              ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.                                 311

tions, consciousness, the essence of intelligence, comes into play.
We have already seen how the awakened intelligence or conscious
ness of the brute, under the guidance of instinct, at once enables it
to determine, with precision, its relations to external objects. But
the newly-awakened conscious intelligence of man is unable to
effect this for him. He refers all his perceptions of external

objects to the surface of his own organism ; he is unable to deter
mine their exact position in space.

     If, however, he is at this stage of his career more helpless than

the brute, there has already begun to be evolved within him a

power which completely distinguishes him from the lower animal,

and which will not only speedily put him on a level with                it,     in

relation to external objects, but which will, if employed aright,              ;

raise him indefinitely in the scale of intelligence.

This power          property conferred on the human intelligence
;
             aby its Creator, in virtue of whichis itcapable not only of percep
                                      isnot only conscious, but self-
               is istion, but of apperception. It
                    a
conscious.                       is  in relation to the objects per
                   is it is
    In the brute, consciousness

ceived the consciousness of self in the animal extends only to the

not confounding of itself with those objects. In technical language,

the animal can apprehend the object only   ;                            cannot apprehend

                                             it

the subject.

Man, again, conscious, not only of the object perceived, but

of the self which perceives. He can apprehend the subject as well

as the object. He            to himself, in the technical language of

metaphysics, subject-object.

    If wo assume, as would now appear we are fully entitled to

do, that the brute         only capable of objective consciousness, its

so-called intellectual processes resolve themselves into mere

suggestive acts. Its so-called thoughts, or trains of thought, are

merely individual acts of objective consciousness connected by the

determining law of its instinct. These acts of objective conscious
ness may be immediate --that
                                 induced by the actual presence of
         ;

            is
                                            is,

                                                                   is,
the object or they may be mediate -- that                               reproductions of acts

of objective consciousness, through the memory or imagination.

The bruto     undoubtedly capable of memory and imagination

but its acts of memory and imagination are, like its other acts of

312 ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

consciousness, individual and objective acts-- that is to say, they
are induced by the presence of an object or exciting cause, and are
connected in the most direct manner by the instinctive laws of its
constitution. The memory and the imagination (which is dependent
on the memory) of the brute may be compared to those systems of
Mnemonics which are resorted to by persons who have not acquired
the faculty of grouping under general principles the facts which

they desire to remember.
     The apparent intellectual processes of the brute are, like its

acts of memory and imagination (Mnemonic and Phantasm ic acts),
merely individual acts of objective consciousness, connected by

the necessary elementary psychical consecution. A recollection

or a phantasm immediately follows an objective excitement ;
and an apparent intellectual conclusion is only a single, neces
sary, and terminal movement in advance of the primary psychical

impression.

   If we assume, indeed, the absence of self-consciousness in the

brute, we must admit the corresponding absence of intellectual
movement. The simplest intellectual process involves at least

three steps--the formation of a general notion or concept, the

predication of the subject of the process in the concept, and the
necessary conclusion. But a concept is an abstraction, a mere
subjective form under which we group together any number of

objects by the points in which they agree. It requires, therefore,
for its attainment a self-conscious power. In like manner the

predicating anything of an object, or of the subject of a thought,
and the consequent conclusion, involve acts of self-consciousness.
Every so-called act of thought, or intellectual process in the brute,

must therefore, if we assume the absence of self-consciousness, be

reduced to the level of an act of suggestion.

    In the want of self-consciousness, and irrespective of the more

or less non-adaptation of the appropriate organ, we have an
explanation of the absence of speech even in the highest form of
the brute. Language is an organon developed in exact harmony
with, and presenting a complete counterpart to, all the arts, move
ments, and processes of thought. Words, relative terms, and
propositions, are merely the forms in which language represents
the corresponding intellectual movements. The various signs and

               ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION                                                                313

noises indicative of the Appetites, Affections, and Passions of the

lower animals constitute, indeed, an elementary form of Language ;
but it is entirely destitute of the discursive element which,

distinctive of thought, exhibits itself in the relative terms of

logical speech. The so-called Language of the brute is merely

a succession of signs, each sign significant of a particular appetite

or emotion, and primarily induced therefore by an objective

excitement.

     The human self-consciousness is possessed of two sets of
faculties -- those subservient to knowledge, and those subservient to

impulse. These two sets of faculties are grouped around the freo

will, which comes into play in the exercise of the first group, and

in the regulation as well as exercise of the second. The in

tellectual faculties of the self- consciousness are powers awakened in

harmony with certain impressions, on which they react ; the

resulting processes being carried forward by the determination of

the will, under certain conditions. The impulsive faculties of the

self-consciousness are feelings induced by certain impressions, and

involving, according to their kinds, attraction to or repulsion from

certain objects ; the attraction or repulsion, in relation to the will,

being conditioned by the conscience.

    In virtue of his self-consciousness, therefore, man is enabled

to discover the laws of Nature and of his own constitution ; and

he by the same means, enabled to judge of these laws as being
is,
               it

                               it

                                            is
                                                       aa

                                                                      it
                                                                         is
                                                                                                 a is
true.

    In virtue of conscience, that peculiar condition of his self-

consciousness, in relation to his impulsive faculties, he                                              also

enabled to determine when he ought to repress bis appetites,

passions, and emotions. Ho has Free will, but he has also sure

guide for the regulation of it.

Wo have had reason to conclude that the brute not possessed

of self-consciousness, that      only conscious. We are obliged to

admit that, unconscious of its psychical processes,  cannot regulate

them, nor can be possessed of conscience to control its appetites

and emotions.

     Man ought to act under the influence of his spirit (xviu/ia).
The brute invariably acts under tho influence of sense {$>vyjt or ffaj|).

     The emotions or impulses of the brute are thus regulated by

314  ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

instinct only. The animal must obey them, and it does so. Its
emotions, therefore, are deficient in the subjective element. like
its so-called intellectual operations, they are related only to their

peculiar objects.
      Having thus endeavoured to secure a philosophical basis for

the psychology of the brute, or comparative psychology, as a depart
ment of general zoology, a brief analysis may next be attempted
of the appetites and so-called emotions and passions of the

animal.

     In the appetites, emotions, and passions, the conscious, as

well as the self-conscious being, would appear to anticipate, with
manifestations of satisfaction or disgust, pleasure or pain, in their

consummation.

     The appetites, emotions, and passions of the lower animal
may be grouped, with reference to their manifestations, into
appetites which are allied to sensations, passions which are related
to perceptions, and social impulses which exhibit a resemblance to

understanding.
     The appetites are principally related to the immediate well-

being of the organism. The primary appetites are connected
with certain sensations to the fulfilling of the objects of which

they are impulsive :--they are the appetites for food, drink, air,

warmth. These primary appetites, along with certain instinctive
impulses, such as the desire of exercise, as exhibited in the
movements of animals in a state of freedom or confinement, and
in the use of the means provided for self-defence, constitute a
group of psychical conditions conducive to the preservation of the
individual.

    A second group of psychical powers are related to the preserva

tion of the species. This group consists of the sexual instinct, and
the various interesting forms of the paedagogic instinct, such as
nidification, incubation, suckling, and the so-called education of the
lower animal by its parents.

    A third group of psychical conditions, analogous to the passions

of the self-conscious being, consist of the so-called anger and
jealousy, revenge, gratitude, grief, emulation, desire of approbation,
love, and friendship, of the lower animal.

    A fourth group includes the social impulses, subdivided into

ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.  315

the family instincts and the communal instincts. The former
includes the psychical manifestations exhibited during pairing,
the preparation of the common dwelling, the preparing of food,
defence of the family, the arrangements for propagation and rearing
of young.

     The latter consist of the Psychical manifestations exhibited
during the temporary or imperfect associations of animals for amuse
ment, for pairing and breeding, for migration, for hunting ; and of

the remarkable psychical manifestations exhibited by those animals
which form perfect communities or polities.

    In this part of the subject an important consideration is intro

duced touching the relation between what was denominated a

psychical community, such as exists in the hive or ant-hill ; and an

organic community, such as presents itself in a composite organism,
as, for instance, a Zoophyte or Phytophone.

    It is very important that it should not be supposed there is a

process in the recognition of the externality of an object by the
human intelligence, or that this recognition results from a previously-
existing recognition of self The two presumed recognitions aro

two aspects of the same fact. In the same moment that the human

self-conscious intelligence apprehends the influence transmitted from

an external object --or, in technical language, in the moment of
sensation -- it apprehends itself also.

     On the other hand, the recognition of the externality of the
external object by the animal is effected in the moment that tbe

impression produced by that object is apprehended by its intelli

gence^--in the moment of sensation --in virtue of its animal or

instinctive constitution, which is unconscious of self, but cognisant

of the opposite pole --the externality of the object.

     The instinctive element already alluded to as conferring on the
animal the faculty of recognising immediately the externality of
external objects, confers on it also many other remarkable faculties.

ITo these shall afterwards direct your attention, but at present it is
Inecessary that should point out what appear to be the distinctive

characters of this peculiar element which reigns supreme in the

brute.

     Our space will not admit of an extended analysis ; but we may
sum up the result in the following definition of Instinct.

316  ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

     Instinct is a collective term applied to those laws, in virtue of
which the psychical endowments of the animal are so adjusted in
reference to its organism with its functions, and to all the necessary
and contingent circumstances in its existence, as to enable them to
work together harmoniously in the adaptation of means to ends,
without self-consciousness.

     On the other hand, that peculiar principle in the constitution of
man, which acts independently on his instincts, and in virtue of
which he is conscious of self, capable of apprehending the objects
around him as external to self, enabled to exert his corporeal and
psychical powers in the accumulation and co-ordination of ideas and
their signs ; but, above all, capable of determining between right
and wrong ; of recognising his own immortality ; and his depend
ence, as well as the dependence of all around him, on his and their
Divine Creator, is an intelligence altogether different in kind from
the instinctively co-ordinated intelligence of the brute.

     The bee, in the performance of its work, unconscious of self, but
capable of exerting its will, and determining its acts, invariably does
so under the unerring guidance of a plan or code of rules, sufficient
for, and co-extensive with, all the acts, and the succession of these
acts, necessary and contingent, which it is required to accomplish,

within its own sphere, in the general polity of the hive. It is

neither a chemist, a geometrician, an architect, nor a politician. It,
nevertheless, unconscious of the regulating principle, but under
the guidance of the laws which control its psychical economy, fulfils
its scientific, artistic, and political functions, with unerring accuracy
and without previous training.

      When man enters the sphere of his present existence, that
peculiar principle, which is henceforward to regulate his psychical
economy, is potential only, not in actual operation. Coming into
play contemporaneously with the apprehensions of sense, it is so
unprepared for the regulation of the economy of the individual,
that he cannot even employ efficiently his organs of sense, or per
form of himself many necessary functions which the animal, under

the control of the instinct, fulfils at once.

     But, by degrees, and contemporaneously with the indications of
sense, it becomes evolved until the individual is capable of moving
in a sphere, and of reacting on surrounding objects, in a manner

             ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.                           317

and to an extent which the possession of the highest instinct could

not have enabled him to reach.

The plan or code of rules by ·which the psychical economy of

the animal is regulated is laid down and determined by a power

beyond its control or consciousness.

The complex but harmonious and ever-developing system of

rules and laws, which is the result of the evolution of the regulating

principle in man, in relation to external objects, would appear to

be, at any one moment, the exact counterpart of as much of every

thing external to itself as it has been awakened to in correlation

with the recognitions of sense. Hence, however, it is to be noted,

that the animal must obey, and does act up to, the laws and rules

of its regulating instinct.

But the regulating power in man is free. He has had a free

will bestowed upon him. He may follow the dictates of his self-

conscious regulating principle, or he may act contrary to them.

     Into the consideration of this peculiarity of the Human Consti

I Itution do not enter, as not bearing on our present subject.

must, however, direct your ·attention to the characteristics and

development of those powers of the Human Intelligence which

require to be borne in mind, while we are engaged in the study of

the Psychical manifestations of the lower animals.

    In the first place, it is to be observed that self-consciousness
involves the faculty of judgment. " It cannot be realised without

an energy of judgment." Self-consciousness is in fact an exercise

of Thought. It involves a comparison and a judgment regarding

two things, neither of which we can think down or out of

existence --namely, the self which thinks, and the self which is

thought of.

Again, in the act of Perception, we are not only conscious of

self but of a not-self.    We cannot disbelieve the one  or  the other.
They are relative to     one another, " each known only  in  antithesis

to the other." Here again judgment is passed between the two

terms. It is an act of Thought.

Then, again, we cannot think anything except under the con

dition of Time. Self-consciousness involves the judgment of self
and of not-self, as being or existing in Time. With our utmost

efforts we cannot think ourselves or aught else out of Time.

318 ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

Time, indeed, is to us only relative. We cannot conceive an

eternity past, or an eternity future ; neither can we conceive Time

compressed into nought or annihilated. Time is to us, therefore,

only apprehensible as a condition under which we think. Time is

a condition of Thought.

In the same manner, Space is to us only another necessary con

dition of Thought.      In itself it is absolutely inconceivable.             We

can only think of it as "an indefinite whole," or "an indefinite part."

We can only conceive of it while passing a judgment regarding the
relation of things as they are in it--as they are external in relation

to one another, or as they are one within the other.

    It is evident that the relations of things thought of under the

conditions of Time and of Space involve the judgments of Duration

and of Motion.

Thought, under the condition of Space, involves the judgment

of matter as not annihilable.     We cannot conceive aught as

capable of being expanded in Space, or compressed Space into

annihilation.

     The irresistible judgment of Causality is passed by our self-
consciousness by virtue of the necessity it is under of judging of

existence under the condition of Time. We cannot think of a

thing but as an existence. We cannot think of a thing except

under the condition of Time ; thata        we are under the necessity
                                     is is,
of considering          as only new form of what existed before it.
is                         a

            a                it

                    it
Therefore we cannot think of as absolutely commencing per se. We

are able to conceive the creation of world, this, indeed, as easily as

the creation of an atom. But what            our thought of creation
                                                                              is
not thought of the mere springing ef nothing into something.
                                                                                              ?
On the contrary, creation  is  conceived, and  is                             by us conceivable,
                                                                                            it
only as the evolution of existence from possibility into actuality by

the fiat of the Deity.

We have up to this point assumed that the brute not self-

conscious that          only conscious that                                   only does not con
is

            ;

                 it
                        is a is

                             it
                                      it

                                                    a
                                                                           ;

                                                       it
found itself with the objects perceives.

   If this bo the case must be inferred that the animal intelli

gence does not pass judgment in an act of consciousness. The

act intuitive. It not an act of thought.
   If so, also, time cannot be condition in any act of the animal

               ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.                                                               319

consciousness. Duration and causation are conceptions impossible

for the animal intelligence ; neither can the relative conception of

space, or the secondary conceptions which flow from
a                                                           be possible
                 is,

                                                                                       it,
                                                                                                   is
for consciousness not conscious of self.

      As, however, these presumed distinctions between the conscious
ness in man and in the brute are of primary importance in compara

tive psychology, we shall proceed to inquire whether there any
mode of procuring --not direct evidence, for, from the nature of the
               as we have seen, beyond our reach -- but cumulative
subject, that

although indirect proof, such as must put the matter beyond

question.                                                                                              A
     This matter cannot be discussed at length in this note.

single example will suffice as an illustration of the method by

which the indirect evidence of the nature of the consciousness of

the brute may be attained. For this purpose the difference in

the modes in which the use of the organ of vision           acquired by
                                                            is, is
man, and by the lower animal, may be examined.
                                                                             it
    In man every act of sensation or perception, although actually

occurring in the brain,                referred to the peripheral extremity of
is
                                          is

                                                        it
the nerve filament excited, to which extremity the exciting object

also referred (primarily), whether                          acts on that extremity im

mediately or mediately.

Objects seen by the infant are, therefore, at first referred by
to the peripheral part of the organ of vision --that
                                                            to the eye

ball. The sensation as well as the perception of the object are

both -- the expression may be allowed -- located in or on the eye
         if
itself.
                                   is
     But the infant acquires the faculty of seeing objects not asa
in contact with its own organism, but in their relative positions in
Space. This faculty acquired by process of investigation, the
results of which are retained by continued practice, while the steps
of the process by which they were originally procured have escaped
from the developing, and therefore comparatively weak memory of
the child.
         .

     The explanation of this process involves the consideration of                                     a
number of physiological and of psychological elements. The faculty
which the human being possesses of perceiving the relations of
objects in space, depends physiologically on the mosaic structure of

VOL.     I.
                                             Y

320 ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

the retina, on the greater visual delicacy of the central retinal spot,

on the relative position of the two eyes, and on the muscular sense ;

and, physiologically, on the faculties of attention, memory, and
conception under the conditions of thinking in space.

     The mosaic structure of the retina permitting only the sensation

and perception of a single point of light for each compartment of
its surface, must necessarily afford the immediate means of con

ception of breadth, or of transverse and perpendicular separation,
under the condition of thinking in space. The mosaic structure of

the retina will thus at once, and without any movement of the eye

or head, afford to the infant the means of judging of the separation

of two points of light in the field of vision.
     But much more extended and precise conceptions of the rela

tions of breadth, or of transverse and perpendicular separation,

are acquired through the muscular sense in the movements of the

eyeball and head. These movements may be stated, generally, to

have as one of their more important objects the bringing of the

central or most delicate part of the retina opposite to each part of

an object in succession. These successive movements constitute,

in fact, a process of palpitation, during which the central spot, or

most delicate part of the eye --considered as an organ of touch --in

combination with the muscular sense, is successively brought into

contact with the object examined. Through its faculties of atten

tion, memory, and conception, under the conditions of thinking in

Space, the mind stores up, and retains, in their proper relative posi
tions, the successive perceptions it has acquired by the successive

mediate applications of the central spot to different points of the ob

ject looked at, and in this manner is enabled to piece them together, sois,
as to frame a conception of the object as a picture -- that as consist

ing of parts, all situated in plane transverse to the axis of the eye.
                            (if is, a
     The self-consciousness of the infant now acquires the faculty ofit

detaching its visual conception of an object from its eye. It hasa

hitherto seen  itas picture           in transverse plane, and at the eye.
                    it a              to conceive of through visual per
It has now to see --that                a
ceptions --as solid object                should be solid object) in its proit
a

per position in relation to other objects in Space.

Two means conduce towards this end the position of the two
                                        :

eyes, and the exercise of the muscular sense.

ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.  321

   It has been already stated that the immediate means of concep

tion of breadth, or of extension in the transverse plane of the eye,

is primarily afforded by the mosaic structure of the retina. In like
manner, the means of conception of extension, in any direction,

cutting the transverse plane of the eye, is supplied by the position
of the eyes in front of the Human head. The Infant, when using
both eyes, contemplates two aspects of every solid object, or two
aspects of the entire scene before it. These two aspects afford two
pictures in planes at an angle to one another, and consequently con

ceived of by its intelligence under different relations of space. It

involves in its combined conception of the object or scene all the
relations of Space, which are fundamental or necessary to its laws

of Thought. It conceives of the objects seen in the three rela

tions of length, breadth, and depth.
     But, as the conceptions of the breadth and depth of an object

as primarily derived from the mosaic structure of the retina, are

extended and rendered more precise by the muscular movements
and sense of the eyeball and head ; so, in like manner, the full
advantage of the arrangements for binocular vision is dependent on
the use of the same means.

     But the most important accessory to the Human eye is the
Human hand. The Human hand is formed in absolute harmony

with the conditions of Human thought. It is an instrument ex

pressly framed to act under it and for it. Psychologically con
sidered, it is the principal channel through which we derive the
means of framing our conceptions of the form of bodies. Towards
this end, it co-operates with the eye, bringing to the aid of the lat
ter the combined results of the sense of touch, highly developed,
on the fingers and palm, and of the muscular sense of the entire
limb. The peculiar manner in which the human thumb can be

opposed to the fingers, and the entire hand folded around the ob
ject, as well as the specifically human manner in which the upper

limbs can embrace an object or enclose a space, are, undoubtedly,
related to the requirements of the human self-consciousness. They
are the principal organical means by which the human intelligence
reaches those motions of external objects, which, when thought
under the conditions of Space, enable it to frame its conceptions of

external nature.

322 ON LIFE AND ORGANISATION.

Such is the process by which man is enabled to acquire the use

of his organs of vision. He arrives at it by an intellectual process ;

that by process which could only bo carried on under the con
is,
        aa
                 is
ditions of self-consciousness.

The brute            enabled to use its eyes at once. If, therefore,
                                                                       is
possesses any form of self-consciousness, this faculty                                 a itnot called

into play in relation to vision.
     But so, in like manner, self-consciousness may be eliminated

from other departments of its physical manifestation. Now, as

most remarkable economy in the use of means for the most numer

ous and varied ends                   exhibited in every department of God's
it
                        is

                                     a
works, appears to be opposed to this principle of economy, that

the brute should possess self-conscious intelligence, and yet be

indebted for the use of its faculties to some power beyond that

consciousness.

    It appears to me, therefore, that we are of necessity led to the

conclusion, even when uninfluenced by other considerations, that

the brute conscious of external objects only, while man cannot
is
    is

                      is

                              it

                                                          p.
                                                                   is
detach his consciousness of external objects from his consciousness
of self. The brute merely conscious --man self-conscious.

                          Note VIII. 297.

                 " MORE IMPORTANT SUBJECTS DISCUSSED."

    It right to state that was the author's intention to have

very materially extended these notes in their Metaphysical and
Psychological aspects, with the view of publishing the lecture with
annotations, but he was led aside by other work. -- Eds.

     ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE GRADUATES IN MEDICINE. 323

 III.-- ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE GRADUATES
                         IN MEDICINE*

Gentlemen, --You have now attained a position in which

you are henceforward to be engaged, not only in the study of
medicine, bnt also in the practice of it. You have become
responsible for a continued course of self-improvement, and
for your efficiency as physicians. Having taken your places
as members of one of the three professions, the collective
erudition of which constitutes the whole liberal learning of a
country, you are bound deliberately to consider the nature of

the position you now occupy. It devolves on me, on this

occasion, briefly to indicate to you the scope and character of
the duties which that position entails.

   If the clerical profession demands an extent of study, and

occupies a sphere of action which bring it into relation with
every department of learning, and all grades of society ; if the
erudition and the knowledge of mankind necessary for the
accomplished lawyer cannot be definitely limited ; it is still
more difficult to determine the line of demarcation between
the province of the physician and the ever-extending area of

human knowledge and activity.
     The training required for any of the three liberal profes

sions is therefore properly considered as . the completion of
a thorough education ; and thus, those three distinct depart
ments of professional study are, from their essential character,

     * This address was delivered on the 1st August 1859, when Professor
Goodsir acted as Promoter for that year. -- Eds.

324  ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE

dependent on that general philosophical training which con
stitutes the fundamental object of a university.

      This comprehensiveness of study, characterising these three
professions, is necessitated by the nature of their common
object. Differing in importance, in accordance with their
respective purposes, they have, nevertheless, this feature in
common, that they have severally to do with human nature.
The first has its sphere of action in the responsibilities and
duties of human nature to its Maker, Preserver, and Judge ;
and has for its end the eternal happiness of humanity. The
second is occupied with the responsibilities and duties due by
members of the community to positive law emanating from

supreme political authority, and has for its end the temporal
happiness of humanity. The third devotes itself to the well-
being of the corporeal frame, which, although not an essential,
is nevertheless a highly important element of human happi
ness ; inasmuch as on the condition of the body depends the
due performance of the social duties of the individual and his
efficiency as a member of the community.

     The three liberal professions being thus directly devoted
in common to the wellbeing of humanity, your share of the
work is to determine the conditions on which health may be
best attained, and to indicate or to supply the means thereto.

     Health essentially consists in the harmonious performance
of all the functions of the being. The conception of health
can only be derived from our conception of life as manifested

in organisation. In the lowest plant, up to man himself, we

unhesitatingly, and as it were instinctively, assume the health
of the being as the most perfect manifestation of its life. As
health is then the end to be attained by the calling of the
physician, life, and more particularly life in relation to

humanity, must constitute his peculiar study.

    It appertains to the very essence of a liberal profession

that its practice can only be finally determined when its

GRADUATES IN MEDICINE.  325

principles have been ascertained. The principles of your pro
fession are derived from the study of life and its conditions.

Herein consists the chief difficulty with which medicine has

had to contend. The very circumstance that vitality is sub

ject to disturbance in direct proportion to the comprehensive
ness of the conditions under which it is maintained, involves

its study in complexities of a kind which do not oppose the
advance of the science of inorganic nature. Vitality can
only be investigated as it is manifested in individual organisms.

Now, although the organisation of the individual is a perfect
system in itself, it is not the less a system dependent on con

ditions external to itself. All its parts and actions are pre
arranged in reference to as much of what is external to it as
its conditions of existence involve. It can live or subsist in
any locality in which these conditions are provided for it. If,
again, these conditions are in any way transgressed, or if they

are withheld, a diminution of health, or the access of disease,

or of death, necessarily supervenes. As with the individual

so with the species, the existence and health of which depend

at any given time on the presence and integrity of the con
ditions of its collective vitality. The localisation of all the
various species, genera, families, and orders, of organised
beings in space, and their existence or non-existence in time,
are referable to this fundamental law of organisation. From

this law also is derived what appears to be a general principle
in medicine -- that diminution of health, and the existence of
disease, are the direct results of the disturbance or removal
of one or more of the conditions of health, so that the whole
extended subject of the phenomena, nature, and causes of

special diseases and injuries resolves itself into the investiga
tion of the immediate or more or less remote disturbances of

the conditions of health.

    A second general principle in medicine follows from what

has now been stated. For it appears that the removal oj

326 ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE

disease consists essentially in the adjustment of previously
altered conditions of health, and that the part which you
have to take in the recovery of those who may require your

assistance is therefore altogether indirect and secondary.

   If the conditions on which health and life depend were

merely material, -- if the forces which are at work within the

organised system itself, and which associate it with the ex

ternal medium in which it lives, were only such as the chemist
and physicist can investigate and determine, --then the pro

blem of health and longevity would be comparatively simple.

The next difficulty in your art consists, therefore, in this, that

within the living economy you have to deal with powers

which cannot be measured, weighed, or subjected to calculation,

but which nevertheless exercise an influence there co-ordinate

with the working of its material forces. As this double sphere

of action is the leading characteristic of the organised being,
so it on the one hand affords the distinctive mark of organic

science, and on the other constitutes the peculiar difficulty of

medical art. Hence we may infer, as another general prin

ciple in medicine, that in the treatment of disease, the adjust
ment may require to be, and in general must be, directed more

or less as well to the psychical as to the j'hysical conditions of

the case.

     As man is distinguished from all the other organised beings
in the midst of which he is placed by the comprehensiveness
of the conditions of his economy, he is also peculiar in the
mode in which he is enabled to provide for them. His pecu

liarity consists not so much in the complexity of his corporeal
frame, as in the character and sphere of his consciousness.

The conscious principle, if the expression may be so applied,

of the horse or dog, is influenced only by external circum

stances ; the sphere of its activity so to speak, altogether
;

                                     is,

                                            it
                                                     is
external to itself impressible from without, and therefore, in

some sort, conscious of surrounding objects,             altogether

GRADUATES IN MEDICINE.                                327

unconscious of itself. The so-called mental powers of the

animal are capacities and faculties excited only by correa it,
sponding external objects, or by the recollection of these. Not
endowed, therefore, with independent powers, its acts are acts
predetermined for in the fundamental arrangement of its
entire economy, with precision and to an extent exactly com
mensurate with the conditions of its existence and welfare.

The animal has consequently no field allotted to for the ex
                              it

ercise of judgment, and can therefore commit no error, nor be

responsible for any act.

     In our human economy, on the other hand, we are not
only conscious of the material objects which surround us, but
we have, in addition, consciousness, even more vivid, of our
a

conscious principle itself. We recognise in our economy,

moreover, not only certain capacities and faculties, the proper
ends, operations, and scope of which are directly predeter
mined and arranged, as in the lower animals, for certain
essential requirements but we are conscious, in addition, of
beliefs, capacities, and faculties, the objects of which are in
       ;
dicated, and their operations conditioned and regulated, by
                  it it
the laws of the conscious principle itself. In virtue of the
                         is is
                                         a

                                              is :
                                                  is
endowments of this, his higher principle, man enabled to
extend continuously his knowledge of the laws of external
nature, and his influence over her. From the same source he

derives his consciousness of the law of duty, and of that

liberty of action with which  associated hence also,

through free knowledge and moral liberty, the unassisted

human reason acquires the conviction of supreme Lawgiver.

You will now observe why      that man distinguished

from the lower animals by the comprehensiveness of the con
ditions of his economy. In the case of the lower animal, the
means by which the conditions of the welfare of its economy
are secured and adhered to are provided in its instincts.

Although man, again, has also had secured to him, through

328  ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE

 his instincts, certain essential conditions of his economy,a
            is,
 nevertheless the general conditions of his wellbeing, under
the ever-varying circumstances in which he is placed, are --

irrespective of revealed truth -- only indirectly provided for
him, through his self-conscious intelligence. His instincts,

in common with his corporeal frame, constitute an organism,

and so far the human constitution is similar to that of the

lower animal ; but the organism in man is merely the instru
ment of his self-conscious intelligence, and it is this circum
stance which entails upon him the comprehensiveness of the
conditions of his welfare. He commences life less amply
provided with instinctive securities than the lower animal.

He must acquire the use even of his organs of sense, and of

his limbs, by a self-conscious process of experiment. The
knowledge of external objects, which is gradually accumu
lated, and the control over them which is acquired by the
individual during his life, and by the species collectively, is

the gradual result of a continuous struggle between his con
scious principle and that material nature by which it is sur

rounded and penetrated ; and for this continuous effort his
organism is the instrument. In like manner, the due perform
ance of all his duties, personal and social -- his duties to his
Maker, his duties to his fellow-men -- from the very consti

tution of his conscious intelligence, life-long struggle between
truth and error, fulfilment and non-fulfilment. These collective

peculiarities of the self-conscious principle, as contrasted with
the instinctive manifestations of the organism, constitute the
proper personality of man, as distinguished from the mere
individuality of the lower animal.

     Such are the comprehensive conditions of the welfare of

the human economy. Their extent depends upon the endow
ments of the human conscious principle. Now, as the most
remarkable of these endowments are the capacity of discrimi
nating, and the liberty of choice between truth and error --

GRADUATES IN MEDICINE.                             329

between right and wrong --there exists a constant liability to

disturbance. The disturbance is not so great, nor are its con
sequences so detrimental, in the progress of science as in the
sphere of duty ; for, as the acquisition of knowledge by intel
lectual effort is precisely conditioned by the laws of our con
sciousness itself, and the motives to the application of it to

economical purposes sufficiently powerful, the obstacles to the

progress of science are continuously diminishing.  In the

sphere of duty, again, the disturbing element -- the tendency
to select the wrong instead of the right-- is in constant opera

tion. It is not necessarily affected by the progress of science

and its economic applications. On the contrary, the occasions

for its disturbing action would appear to become even more

numerous as so-called civilisation advances.

    It is sufficient for the sequence of my argument that at

Ithis point merely allude to that Dispensation which pro

vides the aid necessary for man in the sphere of his duties

and responsibilities --that Dispensation, the nature and appli

cation of which constitute the object and calling of another

profession.
     The number of injuries and diseases which occur in man

is much greater than in any of the lower animals. The

conditions of the welfare of the latter are strictly limited to

the cosmical arrangements of their special areas of distribu
tion, while their instinctive endowments determine precisely
the amount of disturbance of health, or the amount of death,

which occasional or periodic cosmical changes produce. So
also injury and loss of life are necessary conditions of the
general organic economy. For the life of a carnivorous
animal involves the death of the animal on which it feeds, as

the life of the herbivorous animal involves the death of the

vegetable. Domesticated animals are liable to numerous dis
eases and special injuries ; but these are due to their association
with man, who entails upon them much suffering, from which

330 ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE

they would be saved if left to the guidance of their own

instincts. As disease, then, is the result of a divergence from

the conditions of health ; as man is privileged, in virtue of

his conscious intelligence, to provide for himself the condi

tions of health over the extended area of the globe, and

under a never-ceasing variation of circumstances ; but as he

is at the same time liable, from the nature of his conscious

intelligence, to diverge from those principles of truth which

guide to the knowledge of the conditions of health, and to

neglect that sense of duty which indicates the proper applica

tion of that knowledge when acquired, he becomes subjected
                                          IThese consequences
to the necessary evil consequences.

need not enlarge upon. They involve all the disease and

suffering which result from the neglect or infringement of

duty to ourselves and to our fellow-men. They stand related

to all the questions of personal and social ethics, and all the

demands of public hygiene. Finally, they constitute the

grounds of another general principle in the philosophy of

medicine, which  that the greater liabilityis,it man to disease
                                             of
is  intimately related to his higher conscious intelligence.!

    How essential, then, gentlemen, must be in your pro

fession that you should possess        a  clear and comprehensive

conception of all the arrangements by which human life        is

conditioned and modified How vague and limited are our

conceptions of these arrangements apt to be We are apt to
                                             !

look for them in the dissecting-room and pathological theatre,

and to forget that their most influential elements are beyond

the reach of the knife, or the penetration of the microscope.

Even when compelled to take into consideration the relations

of the conscious intelligence to the bodily frame, we are apt

to consider as an intrusion into department of inquiry
    it

                                                 a

                                                               ; it

                                                  I
which may adjoin, but which forms no part of our own.

venture to insist upon this topic, because by some may be

considered as entirely foreign to medical interest and by

GRADUATES IN MEDICINE.  331

others as involving questions admitting only of metaphysical
discussion. But the reciprocal influences of the conscious
and material elements of the human constitution must be

admitted as all-important conditions of health and disease, and
the investigation of the laws of these two opposite influences
demands only a rigid adherence to both of the distinct
methods of inquiry respectively peculiar to psychical and to
physical science. And, moreover, this is not the question as
to whether the body is only a form of the mind, or the mind

a product of the body. It is not the question as to whether

the mind is merely deposited in the body, or whether the
mind accumulates and arranges the different parts of its own

habitation, and regulates and controls them during life.
These are questions interesting in the history of philosophy,
 and involve metaphysical discussion properly so called ; but

 they are questions having no immediate bearing on our topic,
 which includes an extended series of facts, intimately and
 immediately connected with the wellbeing of humanity.

      Every decided advance in philosophy or science is coinci
 dent with the ingress of clearer conceptions of the object to
 be attained, and of the method of attaining it. Towards the
 acquisition, therefore, of a clearer conception of our sub
ject, it is very important, not only that the distinctive
 characters of the conscious principle and of the material
 frame should be kept steadily in view ; but also that the two
 perfectly distinct methods of investigating them should be
 rigorously adhered to. Now we find, in the present phase
 of our professional science, that although the rigid application
 of the precise methods of chemical and physical research to
 the investigation of the organic structures and actions has
 proved that the influence of chemical and physical force
 extends far beyond the limits formerly assigned to it in the
 living economy, nevertheless this has in no degree weakened
  the evidence of a co-existing element in organisation neither

332  ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE

chemical nor physical For in proportion as the test-glass,

the galvanometer, and the kymograph, transfer successive
departments of organic science into the domains of chemistry

and physics, so much the more remarkable do the charac
teristics of organic chemical action and of anatomical confi

guration become, and all the more striking and peculiar are

the phenomena of consciousness felt to be.

     The characteristic peculiarity of chemical action in the

organism appears to consist in this, that certain of its pro

ducts are such as are never met with in inorganic nature. It
would appear as if chemical force in the organism were under

the control of an influence which, while it confines that force

in the greater part of its function to a special form of action,
does not thereby render it less a chemical force than when it

acts in inorganic nature.
     In like manner, while the different forms in which phy

sical force exhibits itself in the several domains of inorganic

nature are exhibited in the corresponding domains of the
living being, it nevertheless appears, in certain of its most

important departments, to be confined by some influence to a
manifestation of itself, such as it never exhibits beyond the

limits of organisation.

     As, however, some of the most striking features of organic

form have now at last been reduced to geometrical characters,

and subjected to mathematical analysis, there appears to be

no ground left for the assumption that all organic forms and

movements are not immediately or directly due to physical

forces, or do not admit of being investigated and determined

by the sole application of physico-mathematical methods.

     If,

                      I

                                                    a
     then, gentlemen, have exhibited correctly the present

position of certain important departments of medical science,

what are its future prospects? It will, in the first place,

undoubtedly, as its several departments merge into the exact

sciences, assume gradually                             more precise character, and

GRADUATES IN MEDICINE.  333

demand from its cultivators, and from those who may desire
to enter within its precincts, a much more thorough physico-

mathematical training than has hitherto been considered
necessary to the science or art of medicine.

    In the second place, as every advance in chemico-physical

truth is followed sooner or later by a corresponding applica
tion of it to the wants of humanity, so we may confidently
look forward to a continuous increase in the number of

chemico-physical appliances to the amelioration of human
suffering, and to the prolongation of human life.

     Again, as it must be admitted that the science of organ
isation, and more particularly the entire science of the
human economy, necessarily involve the laws of the in
stinctive manifestations and of the conscious intelligence ; as,
moreover, it is essential to every increase in the clearness of
our conceptions of these laws that they should be investigated
through the only medium which our human, and therefore
limited faculties supply ; and as the advance of chemico-
physical science into the domains of organisation has only
had the effect of bringing the instinctive manifestations and
the fundamental facts of conscious intelligence which are
involved in organisation more strongly and distinctly into
view, and of reserving them for the methods proper for their

Iinvestigation, we may, believe, confidently anticipate great

progress in the psychological department of organic science.
      As we have already seen that the peculiar liability of

 man to corporeal injury and to disease is directly related to
the intellectual and moral departments of his constitution, we
 may confidently assume that the more careful study of these
 departments of the human constitution, in their relations to
 disease, will tend greatly to the amelioration of human suffer

Iing and to the longevity of the race. And here would

 observe, that in as far as disease is mediately dependent on
 dereliction or neglect of personal duty, in so far also as it

334                 ADDRESS DELIVERED TO THE

depends on social dereliction and neglect of duty --in all

these relations of disease, you, as physicians, are only indirectly

interested. It would be a great mistake, however, were you

to assume that you have fulfilled all the duties of your calling

when you have treated the cases which come under your
observation. Your science can alone supply information

regarding the primary causes of prevailing disease, necessary

for the selection of the proper public measures for its preven
Ition.
        need here only remind you how much has already

been done, and is now doing, in this direction, and express

my belief, that as the greatest boon which your profession has

hitherto conferred on the community has been the prevention

of disease, her future services in the same direction will not

be less valuable.

   IThroughout this address have insisted much on the inti

mate relation which exist3 between the conscious principle in

Iman and his liability to disease ; and may therefore here

remind you how much the comfort of the patient, and the

satisfactory progress of his cure, are dependent on the cha
Ifracter and demeanour of the physician.
                                              the psychical

condition of your patient undoubtedly influences his cor
poreal state, it becomes an essential part of your duty to

secure for yourselves that respect and confidence which are

so readily accorded to your profession, and which tend so

essentially to the welfare of those entrusted to its care. This

character and this demeanour will be best secured by looking

on your profession, not as a mere science, with its formal

·application, but as an extended series of duties, the nature

and scope of which are indicated in the very nature of the

profession itself.

In conclusion, permit me to say, that if a tendency pro
Iduced by my own studies, and if what
                                              hold to be the
Ifundamental principles of the special science which profess,

have given a peculiar colouring to this address, or have

      GRADUATES IN MEDICINE.                                  335

tempted me to allude to topics which might appear out of

Iplace, or might require more delicate handling than can

                      that in the present crisis of this
give them, my excuse  is,

                                      I
University, and in the fulfilment of the special duty which

devolves upon me on the present occasion, felt myself called
upon to define explicitly, from my own point of view, the
present positions and relations of medical science and of your

profession.
     For my colleagues and for myself, permit me also to state,

that in dissolving the tie between us as teachers and pupils,
we welcome you most sincerely as Graduates of this Univer
sity, and members of our common profession.

VOL.  I.

                                                          7.

336 THE PRESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.

IV.--THE PKESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE*

               'Iijrg/x>j yug '«sn agoifoais x.al atpaigesig.

                                             Hippoc. nEPI N02HN.

IGentlemen-- Had acted in accordance with my own feel
Iings, and with those arrangements which have latterly

found most conducive to my efficiency as a teacher and man

Iof science, should have gratefully but firmly declined the

honour you have conferred on me by placing me in this
IChair.
          could not, however, forget that, among the aspira

tions of my earlier life, none were stronger than the desire of

attaining an honourable position in the practical department

of my profession ; and that although the comprehensive

Istudy of the science to which am devoted, and the duty of

isteaching     now necessarily occupy and exhaust my time

        I it,and energies, neverthelesscould not decline attempting
                          I
                              I
at least to act in accordance with the wishes of body of my
                                                             aa
professional brethren, for whom have so warm regard, and

to whom am so deeply indebted, as the members of this

Society.                                                  a
     The periodic change of office-bearers in society like this
    not to be viewed merely as the necessary transference of

official duties from one set of persons to another. On the
contrary, office-bearers must, in addition, be assumed to
represent, more or less comprehensively, the objects and
purposes of the Society itself. But as every department of
human knowledge contemplated from somewhat different
               is
                                                       a

     * This inaugural address was delivered from the President's Chair at the
meeting of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh on the 5th January

1859.

                            I

THE PRESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.  337

point of view by different individual minds ;--moreover, as the

advancement of science and of art is the result of effort and

opinions apparently divergent as often as convergent in their

effect, much benefit may be expected from the periodic review

by different minds of any important subject or department
Iof knowledge.
                am therefore hopeful that, in undertaking

my share of this periodic duty, and in attempting to review

the present state of medicine, and to direct your attention to

Iits future prospects, may do so the more effectively that,

although originally trained to the practice of our profession,
I have now withdrawn from practice ; for thus, with all my
Ipractical instincts unaltered,
Iwithout as it were, with,       view our profession from

                            confess, ever-increasing interest,

but entirely through the medium of those physiological
Isciences to which
                    am devoted, and under the guidance of
Ithose modes of thought which
                                 may be permitted,

without incurring the charge of pedantry, to uphold as the

basis of all effective and comprehensive inquiry, and which,

Ias the results of early education, have ever thankfully

cherished.

    A few weeks ago a member of this Society, than whom

the history of medicine records none who have been more

successful in the suggestion and establishment of new

methods for the relief of or recovery from disease, asked me

Iwhat thought would be the next great advance made in
Iphysic? In reference to what was thus asked of me,
Ibelieve you will agree with me when assert that every

decided advance made in the prolongation of the average

duration of human life has been mediately or immediately

the result of clear conceptions in reference to the conditions

under which human life is maintained. There can be no

doubt whatever that the average duration of human life has
been much more extended by the preventive methods which

the instinct of man and physiological science have induced

338  THE PRESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.

the public and the medical profession to adopt, than by any

of the so-called methods of cure. Such preventive methods

consist essentially in providing or supplying that condition,

or those conditions, of health, and consequently of increased

duration of life, which may happen to be deficient or absent.

In like manner, all trustworthy methods of cure, usually so

called, consist essentially in providing the conditions of local
or general health in the individual --that
                                            in providing the
                            is
conditions of recovery. It                          is,

                                                                              ;
                            with methods of prevention
Ifand of recovery, therefore, that our profession has to do.

we make use of the terms "cure" or "remedy," we do so in

their fundamental and not in their vulgar sense for we do
not profess to perform the one or to provide the other in

their vulgar sense. What we only undertake to provide
are --firstly, the conditions of relief or alleviation of pain, so

far as these have been discovered secondly, the conditions
     ;

                       a

                                                                           ;

                                                            a
                                                                                                            ;
of recovery, provided these conditions can be restored and

thirdly, the conditions of longevity, within the limits assigned

to the life of man in the present phase of his existence.

    It would be curious, but certainly not an unprofitable

inquiry, to trace throughout the history of medicine the

influence which the ever-varying, but always more or less

dominant, conception of disease as real entity has had on

physic to track, step by stop, the change that came over

the original conception and purpose of the duties of the

physician, --over the conception of that art which, according to

Hippocrates, consists in addition and subtraction, or, in other

words, in the restoration of that harmony in the conditions

of health, the derangement of which constitutes the essence

of disease. What  should appear that great part of the
                  if

                      it

                                                               a

                                                                                                                            ?
labour that has been bestowed on the investigation of disease,
and in the search after cure, has consisted in fruitless

attempts to detect the presence of specific entities, and of

counteractive specifics for their control and eradication

THE PRESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.  339

 How much of the mass of medical literature that has
 accumulated during the latter half of the last arid the first
 half of the present century must the future historian of our
 art record as the result of the unconscious influence of the

 mythical conception of disease and of cure, working under
 the guise of scientific research and inductive philosophy ?
 When shall we, in medicine, consciously and utterly reject
 the dregs of the Manichean doctrine, and see clearly, and for
 a practical end, that the essence of disease is only the disturb
 ance of the laws of health ?

    IfEut it may be said, " disease be merely a transgression

 of or disharmony in the conditions of health, then medicine
as an art (the art of healing, or skill in the application of the
remedies of disease) can have no real existence ; it has been
a dream all along, an unconscious and unintentional im

posture. Pathology, the science of disease, alone constitutes
physic ; and the learned and candid physician, who is doing
so much to increase our knowledge of that science, can only

shrug his shoulders when called on to prescribe." In this
objection lies a fallacy, by which our profession is not a little
influenced in these times. It also exhibits a form of pro

fessional scepticism that naturally results from a change
begun in our conceptions of disease, without a corresponding
change in our conceptions of treatment. We are casting

aside the idea of the specific entity of disease ; but we have

not to the same extent freed ourselves from the influence

of the idea of specific cure. The fallacy may be expressed
thus :--There is no such entity as disease ; therefore there
need be no attempt at treatment. Our professional duty is a
necessary form, due to the prejudices of the public and to
the natural desire of suffering humanity for sympathy and

assistance.

     This reactionary tendency at particular epochs, of which
the reasoning just noticed is an example, is not peculiar to

340 THE PItESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.

medicine. It forces itself on the attention of the observant
student in every department of history. It is seen to be an

invariable feature in the progress of art, science, and philo
sophy. Moreover, it always induces, sooner or later, its own
correction, and will do so in medicine. The more clearly and

comprehensively we grasp the conception of disease as being

merely a physiological state, so much the more firm and

uniform will be our confidence in the efficacy of physiological

means for restoring health, and our conviction that these

means alone constitute the conditions of relief and recovery

from disease. The most obstinate sceptic in the efficacy

of our heterogeneous materia medica prescribes morphine,

quinine, strychnine, belladonna, hyoscyamus, and chloroform,

with the most implicit confidence in the production of the

physiological effect proper to each of these substances. The

firmest adherent of the expectant method of treatment does

not scruple for a moment to provide for his patient all

those conditions of atmosphere, temperature, sleep, nutriment,

and consolation, the efficacy of which cannot be called in

doubt.

Why is         it,  then, that while physiology           making rapid
                            it,
                               a

                                            a
                                                      is
progress, and our knowledge of the physiological character of

disease has already attained  tangible form, we are still

wavering and undecided in the treatment of disease, and that

we present, in reference to either reserved formality or

the opposite extremes of mystical credulity and absolute

scepticism  ?

I  believe you will agree with me in ascribing the state of

feeling to which      I  have just alluded to the unconscious

tendency to consider any given remedial agent or measure

too much as acting on any given disease as whole, instead
                                                 a

of viewing     it   as acting invariably on one or more of those

disharmonised conditions which, in fact, constitute theit

disease. For must here be borne in mind that the recent

THE PRESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.  341

advance in physiology has not only corroborated the ancient
doctrine of the interdependence of the different textures and
organs on one another, as constituent parts of the organism,
but has, in addition, brought prominently under view the
independent characteristics, not of organs merely, but of
textures, with their constituent elements and parts. As

respects a given healthy or morbid process, we are now
attaining to the power of distinguishing the respective
independent actions of the blood (not of the blood viewed as
a whole merely, but of its elements), of the capillary, of the
nerve-filament, of the proper texture of the part ; and
again, not of that texture viewed as a whole, but of its

nuclei, of its internuclear substance (or, if you prefer the

term, intercellular substance), and of the independent terri
tories themselves of that substance.

     It thus appears that a healthy process consists of a

number of interdependent actions, each of which, however,
is so far independent that it admits of being separately
examined and influenced. In like manner, one or more of

these so-far independent actions admitting of being unduly
influenced, some one or more morbid phases of the originally
healthy process may be induced. But since the so-far
independent constituent actions of the process admit of
being individually examined and influenced in both healthy
and morbid phases, an intelligible principle is thus supplied
for our therapeutic interference. For no principle in
physiology is more firmly established than this, that certain
natural and artificial substances, when introduced into the

living body, increase or diminish, promote or restrain, the
so-far independent constituent actions of its healthy processes.

Those substances do not influence any one process as a
whole, but only one or more of the so-far independent
constituent actions of that process. One of those substances

may influence only the action of the ultimate nerve-filament ;

342 THE PRESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.

another, only the action of the internuclear substance ; a
third, only that of the nucleus. The knowledge we possess
of what may be termed this microscopic action of foreign
substances on the healthy and morbid processes is as yet
limited ; but it is sufficiently precise to serve as an indica
tion of the path that must be pursued in advancing the
subject of therapeutics to its proper position as the ultimate
or final department of our art. And we cannot doubt that
the same beneficence which has subjected to the power of
man those extended resources whence he is commanded to

elaborate the means of his sustenance, enjoyments, and social
advantages, has also placed within his reach a due propor
tion of means for recovery from disease. When these means
are sought for, not by the rude and impulsive efforts which
have too often characterised the history of remedy, but by
the sure and cumulative, though apparently indirect and
tedious method of science, we cannot doubt that a great

advance will be made in physic.
     An advance in physic, then, is not a mere advance in

pathology that merely involves but does not educe the

principles of treatment. It must, therefore, be the eduction

of the principles and means of treatment from their present
more or less complete state of occultation that will constitute
a real advance in physic.

      The question as to advance in physic, again, suggests the
natural inquiry -- What are the limits and conditions of this

 advance ? Correct conceptions on this subject are much to
be desired, as calculated to produce that legitimate confidence
on the part of the public, and that assiduity in the search for
 and application of the resources of our art, which its import

 ance demands.

     In the first place, it cannot be doubted, although generally

 almost entirely overlooked, that the first, and probably the
 most important question which the public may put to our

THE PRESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.                            343

profession is this --Under what conditions can the health of

individuals be preserved and developed, so that life may
reach its maximum in the present state of society ? This is

the question of individual and public hygiene. It was the
leading question in ancient physic ; and it is one which,
although much has been said and done regarding it in recent

times, has not, it may be safely asserted, had that attention

paid to it which its importance demands. We are too apt to

postpone the answer to a question so comprehensive as this,

and to devote our attention to individual cases of disease.

We are apt to forget that the cases of disease which we treat

might never have occurred had the previous question been

solved, and that it is as much the duty of the physician to

communicate the conditions on which disease may be

prevented as those on which it may be recovered from. The

importance of this question, its comprehensiveness, and at

the same time its legitimate character, as within the limits of

admitted inquiry and action, can only be appreciated by

those who have studied that complex system of intimately

connected conditions -- moral, psychological, and physical --

on which human life depends.
     In the second place, it may be asked, What amount of

recovery from disease is due to the advising or providing the
Inecessary conditions of it by practitioners of our art ?
                                                           may

venture to suggest that a greater amount of recovery is due

to treatment than the profession itself might be inclined to

admit. It is quite true that little credit is assigned to the

vis medicatrix naturce in a successful case of stone. But, on

the other hand, is there not frequently too little credit

attached to the continuous attention required in securing

the administration of the numerous apparently trilling but

complex and necessary conditions of recovery in a case of
continued fever? Without doubt it will be found that, in

a more advanced form of practical medicine, a much more

344  THE PKESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.

extended system of means and arrangements will be provided
for the supply of the numerous and apparently trivial
conditions of recovery in the great majority of recoverable

cases.

    In the third place, while it must be admitted that the

means at present available for the alleviation of suffering
and for the prolongation of life in irrecoverable cases con
stitute a large proportion of that benefit which medical art

confers on society, there appears to be, nevertheless, great
room for the discovery and application of means of allevia

tion, and of methods of treatment applicable to such cases.

I do not refer merely to such cases as, from their severity,

render the sufferers entirely dependent on the care and
services of others, but to those numerous cases of all kinds,

in which, after what may be considered as recovery from the

original attack, the health continues impaired, or there is a

continuous tendency to relapse, or to consequent forms of
illness. The economy of the organism in such cases is very
different from what it was previous to the original attack.
Its wellbeing and duration, so far as these are attainable,

are dependent on different physiological conditions than
before--so different, that they may involve a total change in
                                           IHence, again,
the external relations of the individual.

have no doubt that the same efficacious treatment, by physio

logical means and appliances, of chronic and irrecoverable

disease will constitute a prominent feature of a more advanced

form of our art.

   If I have, in my previous statements, given the correct

interpretation of the present aspect of our professional

science, it would appear that while, in the first place, the

prolongation of life within its prescribed limits, the recovery

from disease when that is possible, and the alleviation of

bodily suffering, are each and all conditioned by ordinary

physiological laws ; and that as, in the second place, that

THE PRESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.  345

amount of prolongation of life, recovery from disease, and
alleviation of bodily suffering, which our art has heretofore

effected, have been so by the empirical or conscious applica

tion of physiological means ; so, in the third place, the

present position of physiology presents a satisfactory prospect
of attaining the possession of a greatly-increased number of
means and appliances, suitable for the supply and control of
the numerous conditions essential to the preservation of

health and to the recovery from disease.

     How essential, then, must it be in the practice of our

profession to possess a clear and comprehensive conception
of those natural arrangements by which human life is con
ditioned and modified ! How vague and limited are our
conceptions of these arrangements apt to be ! We look for
them in the dissecting-room and pathological theatre, and
forget that their most influential elements lie beyond the
reach of the knife or the penetration of the microscope. Even

when compelled by circumstances to take into consideration
the reciprocal influences of the conscious principle and the

bodily frame, we are inclined to consider it as a necessary
intrusion into another domain -- a domain which may adjoin
but does not form a part of our own. Nevertheless, within

that adjoining domain processes are more or less continuously
in operation, influenced by and influencing the corporeal

actions. It is true that, from our human and therefore

limited intellectual constitution, we are obliged to examine
and investigate the processes of our bodily frame and of our
conscious principle through separate media. Our human
reason reaches, examines, and investigates the processes of
our material frame through the medium of the senses, as it

reaches, examines, and investigates the forms and movements

of the heavenly bodies. That same human reason examines
and investigates the processes and acts of our conscious
principle through the medium of that principle itself, of

346 THE PRESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.

which, in fact, it is only to be considered as the formal

expression. The results obtained through the medium of the

senses are not in the slightest degree more certain or more

trustworthy than those reached through the medium of the

consciousness. They differ only in the mode in which they

are attained and the objects to which they are directed ; and

this difference again is a necessary consequence of the limited

constitution of the human intellect.
I Ihave ventured to insist on this topic, because
                                                   am

aware that by some it is considered as entirely foreign to

physiological and medical interest, and by others as involving

questions of doubtful propriety because admitting only of

metaphysical discussion. But the reciprocal influence of

mind and body is admitted by all, as constituting an import

ant condition of health and disease ; and the investigation of

the laws of these reciprocal influences constitutes depart

ments of inductive science, differing respectively only in the

character of the medium through which the facts are reached.

This is not the question as to whether the body is only a

form of the mind, or the mind a product of the body. It is

not the question as to whether the mind is deposited in the

body at some one or other period of its development ; or

whether the mind is first produced, and then accumulates

and arranges within its own form the different parts of its

own habitation, and regulates and controls them during life.

These are questions important in the history of philosophy,

and involving metaphysical discussion properly so called.

But they are questions that have no immediate bearing on

our topic, which involves an extended series of facts inti

mately connected with the wellbeing of humanity.

Every decided advance in science or philosophy is coin

cident with the ingress of clearer conceptions of the object

to be attained, and the mode of attaining it. In physiology,

therefore, we see at present that although the steady and

THE PRESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.  347

unprejudiced application of the precise methods of chemical

and physical research to the investigation of the organic
structures and actions has shown that the influence of

chemical and physical force extends far heyond the limits

formerly assigned to them in the living economy, nevertheless
this has in no degree affected the evidence of a co-existing
non-chemical and non-physical element in organisation. In pro

portion as the test-glass, the galvanometer, and the kymograph
have dragged into view the purely material character of the
forces in action in the living organism, so much the more
clearly and strikingly do the organic characteristics of the
chemical constitution and of the anatomical configuration
and connection of the parts in action stand forth ; and so
much the more remarkable, because in deeper contrast, do
the acts of consciousness become.

     The characteristic peculiarity of chemical action in the
living organism may be said to consist in this -- that certain
of its products are such as are never met with in inorganic

matter. It would appear as if the so-called chemical force in

the living organism were under the control of an unknown
quantity, which, while it confines that force in the greater
part of its functions to a special form of chemical action,
does not thereby render it less a chemical force than when it
acts in inorganic matter.

    In like manner, while the so-called physical force, as

manifested in its domains of statics, dynamics, hydro

dynamics, pneumatics, optics, acoustics, thermatics, and
electricity, presents itself, in the living body of one of the
higher animals, in its most complex relations in the cor

responding departments of its influence, it nevertheless
appears in the latter, like the chemical force in the same
circumstances, to be confined by the same unknown quantity
to a manifestation of itself, such as it never exhibits in

inorganic masses. While the configurations of the inorganic

348  THE PRESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.

masses in nature are referable to various modifications of the

polyhedron and of the sphere, the configurations of the
masses, and parts of vegetables and of animals, involve the
complex relations of curves of double curvature. Without
doubt that force, in virtue of which the shell of the nautilus
derives its form, the cartilage of a human joint its curvature,
and the movements of the human limbs their helical

character, is purely physical, and of the same nature as that
force in virtue of which the planets possess their individual
forms, and revolve in their prescribed periods and curves.
But while the heavenly bodies present merely the configura
tion of spheroids, and have their paths confined to bare
sections, the configurations of the masses and parts of the
animal body, as well as their movements, are, in presence of

the unknown quantity, involved, moulded, and curved
according to the law of the logarithmic spiral. The com

plexity of the statico-dynamical relations involved in forms
and movements of this character is such that it would almost

appear as if that mass of analytic means, accumulated by the

industry of the mathematician but not yet made use of by
the physicist, is laid up in store for the future anatomist

and physiologist ; and as if the highest example afforded to

us of the complex but orderly and invariable exercise of
chemical and physical force is in the construction and actions
of that human body, in connection with that conscious

principle, also possessing its own laws, but endowed with the
mysterious privilege of free wilL

    It may now be asked--To what does all this argument

tend ? What bearing can it possibly have on the practical
question as to the future progress of the art of medicine ? as
to the additional means to be expected of alleviating pain,

Idiminishing disease, and lengthening the term of life ?

shall not consider the argument out of place if you agree

with me in the conclusion to which it leads, that we ought to

           THE PRESENT ASPECT OF MEDICINE.  349

have in the two domains of what may be termed anatomical

and psychological physiology, if invariably investigated

through the medium and by the process peculiar to each, the
same confident expectation of advance in scientific knowledge,
and in the practical application of that knowledge, as we
have in other departments of inductive science, and in their

practical applications.

   I at one time intended to illustrate at greater length

some of the more prominent and important features in the

recent progress of pathology and treatment, and to refer to

what has been done in that direction by members of this
Isociety.
           feel, however, that an attempt to do so at present

would not only be doing injustice to the subject itself, but

would occupy too much of your time. Reserving to myself,

therefore, the privilege of communicating, at our ordinary

Imeetings, some of the remarks which had intended to

embody in this address, permit me to conclude by expressing

Ia hope that, if what have now delivered to you exhibits a

view too much influenced by individual habits of thought, it

will be found to present at least the great features of the

present aspect of medicine.

350 ON THE PBOGRESS OF ANATOMY.

V.--ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.*

IAlthough this is not the first occasion on which have had

to commence an Anatomical Course in this Theatre, it is the
Ifirst on which have been called on to do so in the winter
Isession as Professor of Anatomy.
                                   will therefore direct your

attention very shortly to the peculiar circumstances in which

we are placed at this time, when the science is making rapid

progress, and when much is expected hoth of you and of me.

I Ido not know how can do this better than by taking a brief

retrospect of the progress of anatomy during the one hundred

and twenty years it has been taught in this University. Short,

Icomparatively, as the period is which intend to review, it

would far exceed the limits of an introductory discourse to
Ienter into details.
                      shall attain my object much better by

pointing out to you the influences which have affected the

progress of our science, the various aspects which it has pre

sented at different periods, and the comparatively small number

of men, who, among the multitude of labourers in the same

field, must be considered as the types of the particular epoch

in which one or more of them appeared.

When we consider the progress which society in general,

or any of the arts or sciences have made, we at once perceive

that that progress has not been steady and invariable, but by

fits and starts, presenting periods of action and of reaction,

     * This lecture, introductory to the author's first Systematic Course of

Lectures on Anatomy, was delivered at the commencement of the winter

session 1846. It has not previously been published. -- Eds.

            ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.            351

epochs of rapid development, and of comparative repose.

Each successive period of advance differs both from the one

which precedes and the one which follows. It invariably

produces one or more men, who, although apparently the

active agents in bringing about the development of the period,

are in fact only the mouthpieces of the many who feel but

cannot express, who almost lay hold of the idea, but cannot

fashion it into a tangible form Thus it is that almost every

great discovery has been claimed by more than one indi

vidual ; Harvey, Newton, and Charles Bell were not allowed

to enjoy their reputations in quietness ; and the astronomers

of more than one country have been lately disputing for their

share in the discovery of a new planet. Each successive

epoch, differing in some essential particulars, becomes there

fore a period of repose when considered in relation to its

predecessor. The interests of the last age, although no longer

presenting the same freshness and excitement which they did

to our fathers, do yet settle down with us into steady acknow

ledged principles of action usefully curtailed of their exuber

ances ; only to be the better fitted to support and protect the

more recent ideas of our own age. Thus do we find at any one
time two sets of men--those of the old and those of the new

Ischool -- pitted too often, am sorry to say, by most natural

prejudices, against one another, always viewing the same sub

ject from opposite points, and therefore declaring stoutly the

error of their opponents without perceiving their own ; never

seeing that the opinions of the one side are only the com

plement of the . opinions of the other, and that the truth

must be in a certain middle course, the resultant of twc

apparently opposing forces. Thus it                gentlemen, that all
            is
                                              is,
advance accompanied by opposition, every society presents
      L is
two parties, progress apparently the result of antagonism       ;
from which at least we may learn this useful lesson --to listen

charitably to those who are opposed to us in opinion, and

vol.        2
               a

352  ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.

to examine our opponent's statements from his own point of

view.
      Such are a few of the more important principles by which

all history is to be studied. Let us examine by means of them

Ithe short period in that of our own science which have

selected for consideration on this particular occasion. Towards

the close of the seventeenth, and at the beginning, but more
particularly during the second quarter of the eighteenth cen
tury, our science advanced principally in the direction of what
is now called Descriptive Anatomy. This period was the
epoch of Cowper, of Cheselden, of Albinus, but found its

principal exponent in the French anatomist Winslow. With
this mode of studying the human body a corresponding change
in the art of surgery was produced. The operations of Chesel

den were not empirical, but were founded on his anatomical

Iknowledge ; and had time, or were it more directly in the
Iline of my subject, would willingly point out to you the

effect which this more precise anatomical study had on the
French and Dutch schools of surgery of the period we are now

considering.
     Conspicuous among the great names of this period is one

in which we in this Theatre, and connected with this Univer

Isity, are more particularly interested -- allude to the first

Monro.

     After the Union, at the beginning of the last century,
Edinburgh had begun to rise into a condition of security and
prosperity, which the continued troubles of the Scotch nation
had for so many centuries rendered impossible. The Cor
poration of Surgeons of that period -- now the Royal College of

Surgeons --ever zealous in the improvement of medicine in

Edinburgh, had the credit of giving rise to the anatomical
school of Edinburgh by establishing a professorship of ana
tomy to their own body; which appointment, although from
circumstances, almost nominal, yet had the effect of bringing

ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.  353

about the formation of an anatomical school in the University,
in the success of which all parties were equally zealous, and
to which Dr. Monro was appointed. Dr. Monro possessed
all those qualifications necessary for the position in which he

found himself. Educated as an anatomist by his father, who

was himself a surgeon and practitioner, he then dissected
under Cheselden in London, and studied under Winslow and
Albinus in Paris and Leyden, and therefore combined in
himself all those peculiarities which characterised the
anatomical epoch in which he lived and taught. The

instructions and example of Cheselden and Boerhaave --the

latter, although better known as a physician and chemist, yet
at the same time a learned anatomist -- excited in Monro

those unceasing efforts which he ever afterwards made to
improve the practice of our profession, by the correspondence
he kept up with his numerous pupils and with other practi
tioners ; by the papers which he published in the Edinburgh
Medical Essays, and which led Haller to state, in reference to
these essays, " Monrous ibi eminet ;" and by the precise
manner in which he taught anatomy to his class, always with
a view to the practice of medicine. The effect produced in

Ihim by the peculiar tendency which have already alluded

to in the prelections of Winslow and Albinus, is evinced by
the description which he published of the bones and nerves.
Both works were speedily reprinted in several languages, and
illustrated by engravings. They are both good examples of the

accurate descriptions peculiar to the period ; and the former

Iis still one of the best works can recommend to you in your

studies of the human skeleton.
     By his residence in Leyden he imbibed his fondness for

making and collecting anatomical preparations --an art which
was one of the characteristics of the epoch which immediately

preceded his own. It took its rise in Holland. Swammer-

dam, and particularly Ruysch, invented and almost brought

354  ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.

it to perfection ; and Monro must have learned from Albinus
its application to the investigation of the exact course of the

human blood-vessels.

    I would willingly, gentlemen, had we time, enlarge on
I Ithis part of my subject ; shall feel, however, that have
Isaid enough if have interested you in the memory of a

former member of this University -- a man, the truth, the
simplicity, and earnestness of whose character are so much to
be admired, and who contributed so largely to the advance of

Iour science and profession. For cannot conceive how any

one can follow any pursuit who does not admire and strive
to imitate those who have formerly excelled in it.

      About the middle of the last century, we enter upon a
period which may be said to terminate shortly after the be
ginning of the present. During this period descriptive ana
tomy continued to be prosecuted, but, with the exception of
the treatise of Sabatier, no great systematic work was pro
duced ; the attention which continued to be devoted to it

rather evinced itself by the number and value of engraved
illustrations. To this class belong the Icones Anatomicce of
Haller --that universal genius, at once poet, botanist, anatomist,
physiologist, and physician. The plates of Haller, from the
truth and nature which they exhibit, so different from the
artificial stiffness of those of Albinus, or of any former
illustrator, with the exception of those of our own Cowper and

Cheselden, are equalled only by the enormous learning which
he brought to bear upon the subject. Amongst a number of

Iother works of the same kind, need only mention those of

Vicq d'Azyr, Sandifort, and Caldani. This continued prose
cution of descriptive anatomy was not, however, the charac
teristic feature of this period. This second epoch was
characterised by the rise and systematic establishment of
human physiology, that department of our science which is
devoted to the force existing in the living healthy body, in

ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.  355

contradistinction to descriptive human anatomy, which treats
only of the material structure of the frame. Just as we found
the descriptive anatomy of the former epoch, although not
entirely originating, yet systematised, in the work of Winslow,
so in the period now under consideration do we find human

physiology systematised, and to a certain extent originating,
in the Elcmenta Physiologic^ Corporis Humani of Haller. But
much as Haller did for physiology by his own continued re
searches and his great systematic work, there were other
labourers in the field, whose exertions have produced a lasting
influence on the science. Of these, the second Monro and his

colleague Dr. Robert Whytt are conspicuous. They were both

professors in this University --the former of anatomy, in which

he succeeded his father ; the latter of the institutes of medi
cine. Dr. Monro secundus, by his continued researches and
suggestions in the physiology of the nervous system, organs
of the senses, absorbent vessels, action of muscles, showed an

acuteness and far-sighted penetration which give his opinions

and observations a place in all the researches on these sub
jects in the present day. Dr. Whytt, by his views in regard
to vital and involuntary motions, and by his celebrated contro
versy with Haller, greatly influenced the physiology of the
period. During this period, also, the labours of John and
William Hunter in London added largely, and gave a great
impulse to physiology. "William Hunter, enthusiastically
fond of practical anatomy, physiological experiments, and

anatomical preparations, and devoted to teaching his favourite
subject, a man of refined taste and conciliatory manners, great
as he was, is not to be considered as the leader of his period.
He was rather to be considered as the head of a school from
which great men emanated. He was the first to discover, and
in every respect to understand and appreciate his brother
John. He educated Hewson, he fostered and brought forward
Mathew Baillie. He may, in some measure, be considered as

356 ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.

having given the recent great impulse to all the three depart
ments of our profession --pathological medicine through his
nephew Baillie, surgery through his brother John, and obste
trics by his own individual efforts. Neither can John Hun
ter-- a man who was considered by most of his professional

brethren as a dreaming physiologist and a theorising surgeon --

be looked upon as the type of this second epoch now under
consideration. He was brought up in the dissecting-room, at
the time when descriptive anatomy was chiefly studied. He

was also an experimental physiologist throughout his whole
career. But putting out of view his surgical works, his writ

ings during his lifetime did not so much promote the advance
of anatomy as of physiology, and great as they were, do not,
considered merely in the period when they appeared, occupy
so prominent a position as those of Haller. But to us at the
present day, who can read them through the knowledge which

his own labours have promoted, they possess a far deeper
meaning than could be appreciated at the time. We can now
perceive traces in all his writings of the great work he was
silently engaged in, a work understood at the time only by a
very few, and now brought to light through the invaluable
exertions of Mr. Clift and Professor Owen, under the influence
of the College of Surgeons in London

    It has been proved that he had made and noted down, in

propositions of extraordinary beauty, not the anatomy of man
alone, but that of the whole organic world, arranged so as to
exhibit a knowledge far beyond what was dreamt of by any
of his contemporaries.

   I have already pointed out to you how the accurate

anatomy of Winslow, Cheselden, and the first Monro, reacted
on the art of surgery, and it is interesting to observe a corre
sponding reaction in the physiological tendency of the latter
half of the century. In Edinburgh the era of the two Monros
and Whytt was also the era of Cullen and Brown, and their

ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.  357

respective partizans, and of the influence exercised through

them on physic. In London the physiology of John Hunter

influenced surgery, and has made a still greater and more

permanent impression on medicine. At the risk of becoming

Iobnoxious to the charge of nationality, cannot but observe

here that the physiological bias of the second Monro, the pecu
liar character of the views of Whytt, Cullen, and Brown, and
the physiological and pathological principles of John Hunter,
all fellow-countrymen, in accordance with that tendency to

abstract speculation which characterised a large section of the
Scotch philosophers of the period, was destined to exercise

on Continental medicine as great an influence as the Scotch
school of philosophy and metaphysics, which took its rise
early in this period, has exerted on those abroad.

   IAnd here, gentlemen, must recall your attention to a
Iname which have already mentioned more than once, and

which occupies so conspicuous a place in the anatomical
records of this period. Under his father, the second Monro

became an accurate descriptive anatomist. Attached at an

early age to the practice of his profession, which he continued
to prosecute for the greater part of his life, he proceeded to
Berlin, where, under the first Meckel, he pursued his favourite

subject. It was under Meckel that he prepared his essay,

Be Venis Lymphaticis Valvulosis. Already imbued by his
father with a love of making anatomical preparations, he pre
pared at Berlin quicksilver injections of the tubes and lym
phatics of the testes and spermatic duct, which still exist in
our museum. He ever afterwards retained his early predilec
tion for the study of the lymphatics, acquired great dexterity
in injecting these vessels, and entered with much keenness
into a controversy with the Hunters regarding the priority of
their presumed discovery of the functions of these vessels, and
with Hewson regarding the lymphatics of birds and fishes.

     A few years after the commencement of the present

358  ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.

century new views opened up in our science, and it began to
be prosecuted by different individuals, in different directions
and with different objects. Just as we found, in passing from
the first to the second epoch, that the results of the leading
researches of the former passed on as modified but acknow
ledged principles of action into the latter, so, in passing from
the second to the third epoch, both descriptive anatomy and
physiology continued to advance. The systems of descriptive

anatomy published during the present century are very

numerous --as, for example, the works of Portal, J. F. Meckel,

Bichat, Cloquet, Hildebrandt, Sommering, and Blandin ; but
they are all modelled on that of Winslow. The engraved illus
trations have also been numerous, and of these the plates of
Walter, Scarpa, Weber, Tiedemann, and Barclay, may especially
be mentioned. But the period now under review, extending
to within ten years of the present date, is chiefly character
ised by the rise and progress of three apparently distinct
departments of anatomical science -- general anatomy,
surgical anatomy, and comparative anatomy. Not that these

had not their respective cultivators, and made some progress,
in former periods of the history of our science, but it is only
in the nineteenth century that they have become systematised

and characteristic.

     General anatomy --by which term we understand the sys

tematic structure, physiological properties, and pathological
phenomena met with in the different textures of which all

the organs or parts of the body are composed, each texture
considered by itself--may be traced as a germ in the school of
William Hunter, was almost expressed in the physiology of
Haller, gives a complexion to the morbid anatomy of Baillie,
and suddenly appeared in its present advanced condition
through the genius and works of Bichat. With the works of
Bichat on physiology and general anatomy you must in due
time make yourselves acquainted ; for until you are thoroughly

ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.  359

imbued with the spirit of these works, you cannot fully un
derstand the bearings of human anatomy on the higher de
partments of medicine. Beclard, a pupil and enthusiastic

admirer of his great master Bichat, produced an excellent
work on general anatomy in the same spirit, of which there is

an English translation by Dr. Knox. J. F. Meckel produced

in Germany, where this department of the science had been
already in advance, his General and Morbid Anatomy, which is

also translated into our language. It is to general anatomy

that we owe the present improved state of pathological
medicine, and these two subjects must ever advance hand in

hand, and should any of you be inclined to give ear to the

statement so often made, that anatomy is necessary to the
surgeon, but not to the physician, recollect that the illustrious
founder of that general anatomy to which we owe the present
advance in physic, was a profound descriptive anatomist, and
wrote one of the most complete and elegant systems we

possess on the subject.

      Surgical anatomy may be defined to be the dissection and
description of the regions of the human body in which sur

gical operations may be performed, or injuries and surgical
diseases may occur, in such a manner as to become acquainted

with the exact relative positions of all the parts,--skin, fat,
muscles, nerves, and vessels, -- with a view to diagnosis and

operation. Like general anatomy its promotion may be traced
in the works of various authors, previous to the present
century ; but it is only during this century that it has become

a subject of systematic study. It first assumed this form in

the celebrated work of the late Mr. Allan Burns, On the

Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, and we can only
regret that the premature death of this excellent lecturer,

surgeon, and anatomist, brought on by his devotion to science,
should have deprived us of the remainder of a work which, as

far as it goes, has not even been approached by any of his

360           ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.

numerous followers. A host of writers on surgical anatomy

have since appeared, most of them belonging to the French

school. Their writings are characterised by the clear sys

tematic arrangement and luminous description which are pecu

liar to the genius of the French people and language. But

this method and completeness is at once their peculiarity and
their fault, they induce fatigue without proportional in

Istruction, and appeal to the experience of those of you who

have already acquired some knowledge of this department,

whether you have derived the same useful information from

the laboured works of Velpeau and Blandin, as from the plain
common sense and discriminating accuracy of Allan Burns.

     Since the rise of surgical anatomy a number of manuals

have appeared, and been extensively used, being arranged not

systematically, but in the order of dissection. To them your
attention will be more particularly directed in the course of

demonstration and in the dissecting room.

     The department of our science which has been most

extensively developed in the period now under consideration,
is comparative anatomy -- and with this the name of Cuvier

Iwill at once suggest itself to you. Much, however, as revere
Ithat name, and fully as appreciate the extent of the dis

coveries in comparative anatomy with which it is associated,

I am bound to add the expression of my belief to that of most

competent judges, that the French anatomist must yield to

John Hunter, not only the priority of discovery, but the

greater part  of what was discovered ; and even the very
arrangement   of the system. But it is not so much for these
reasons that
              I would consider Mr. Hunter as in advance of

Cuvier. The discoveries of Cuvier in fossil anatomy have

given an impulse to the fashionable science of geology, and a

consequent brilliancy to his reputation, incommensurate with

the absolute difficulty of the researches. That Mr. Hunter

was fully alive to the importance, and capable of entering into

ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.  361

this line of research, his writings and collections fully testify.
But it was in the application of his vast knowledge of com
parative anatomy to physiology and pathology, and the conse
quent advancement of the less brilliant but more useful
science of medicine, that he so far outstripped his rival.

     Both were alike well acquainted with the structure of the

animal kingdom, from the monads to the monkeys. This
knowledge Cuvier applied to natural history, and expanded it
in zoological arrangements and geological research. Hunter,
again, was Cuvier's superior in vegetable anatomy. He was .

what Cuvier never professed to be--an accurate human anato
mist ; and he saw what Cuvier could not perceive --the iden

tity of the laws of healthy and morbid structure and function.
When the celebrated Eudolphi, himself, like Hunter at once

a zoologist, a comparative anatomist, a human anatomist, and
pathologist, was conversing on one occasion with Cuvier about

a certain pathologico-anatomical specimen, the latter replied

--" Mais ce n'est qu' accidentel," an expression which proves

how far inferior he was to Hunter in Ids perceptions of the
bearing of his science.

     Thus, it was his knowledge of pathology which gave
Hunter his superiority. He employed his extended know
ledge of comparative anatomy to break down the obstacles in
the way of advance of pathology and medicine ; and using the

power he thus possessed, he reversed the process, employing
his pathological principles to explain the healthy organic
phenomena which he observed in the animal series.

      Cuvier could push forward only in one direction, Hunter
could advance on all sides. The one conducted his labours

amongst a people ever ready and proud to facilitate the pro
gress of their men of genius, and was supplied with every
opportunity of research by a patron as ready and more able
to assist him than Alexander was to promote the studies of
Aristotle, Cuvier's own prototype in natural science ; Hunter,

3G2  ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.

again, pursued his subject in a capital where success in busi
ness, rank, or property, are surer passports than literary emin

ence or scientific reputation. Harassed by a laborious practice,
which alone supplied the means of prosecuting his researches,
without the sympathy of the public, and with few professional
friends, he did all by his own efforts, and left a museum of
comparative anatomy superior to that of Cuvier, and a

surgical reputation greater than any before or since.
     During this period the progress in the Edinburgh Ana

Itomical School partook of the varied characters to which

have alluded. My own immediate predecessor in this chair,
from his early acquaintance with Dr. Baillie and his school,

acquired the prevailing taste for general and morbid anatomy
which showed itself in his Morbid Anatomy of the Stomach
and Gullet, and of the Brain. The former, especially from

the learning and sound discrimination which it exhibits, has
become a standard work in the literature of our profession.
His intercourse with Mr. Allan Burns, and the influence of

the period, had early directed his attention to various depart
ments of surgical anatomy, as evinced by his writings and
illustrations of the male pelvis, hernia, etc., and thus conduced
in no small degree to develope the bold and successful operative

I Isurgery of the Edinburgh School.
        cannot conclude what have said regarding the Ana

Itomical School of this University, prior to the period we are

now entering upon, without alluding, more shortly than
could have wished, to two names inseparably connected with
its former history, Mr. Innes and Mr. Fyfe. The former, well
known as the author of a work on the muscles, was educated

as an anatomist by the second Monro, and long assisted him
in the duties of the chair. Mr. Fyfe devoted himself to ana
tomy, when advanced in life, and became, under the same
master, one of the most accomplished practical anatomists of
his day. He was not only a most assiduous and dexterous

ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.  363

dissector of the human body, but was also well versed in

comparative anatomy, as is shown by his published systems
of Human and Comparative Anatomy. His favourite employ
ment was injecting, particularly the absorbents, with quick
silver, in which he rivalled his master, and whom he greatly
assisted in his researches on the subject. Mr. Fyfe was, in
addition, a man of amiable and obliging disposition, and the
pleasure which he took, when surrounded by a numerous band
of students, in demonstrating the parts he was at work upon,
is still remembered by many members of our profession who
were students of the University at the time. He was also a
man of most laborious habits, for being equally dexterous in
the use of the scalpel, pencil, and graver, he drew and en
graved with his own hands almost all the illustrations of his

own and Dr. Monro's works.

   I cannot leave the consideration of this period in the his

tory of the Anatomical School of Edinburgh, without direct
ing your attention to another anatomist who exerted a great
influence on our profession by his writings and prelections.

There are few anatomical teachers who have educated a

greater number of members of our profession, who exercised
a greater influence on their success in life, or gained a more

warm and permanent respect for his memory, than the late

Dr. Barclay. A profound human anatomist, in the highest

sense of the term, he was also well versed in comparative
anatomy ; and although not himself distinguished by dex
terity, nor ever engaged in the practice of our profession,
nevertheless, the honesty and sincerity of his character,
his enthusiasm in the teaching of his favourite science, the
energy and success with which he encouraged actual dissec
tion by the student, and the extent to which he promoted the
interests and assisted the talents of his pupils, rendered him
a most successful and popular teacher. Like every true
anatomist, he was fond of anatomical preparations, and left to

364  ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.

the College of Surgeons the collection you may now see in
their museum. Numerous as were the physicians and sur
geons who studied under Dr. Barclay, he had also pupils who

have distinguished themselves as comparative anatomists.
Professor Owen, the worthy successor of Cuvier in the field of

comparative anatomy and palaeontology, and deeply deserving
of our regard for the energy with which he has brought into

view the hidden treasures of the museum of John Hunter, as

well as Dr. Grant, of University College, were both his pupils,

and doubtless were incited and encouraged by the kindred
tastes and enthusiasm of their teacher.

     Such were the directions in which anatomy advanced dur
ing the first thirty years of the present century. At the ter
mination of this period we enter on the present times, which

are not yet sufficiently advanced to enable us to see by what

character they will ultimately be distinguished. One feature,
indeed, which had begun to show itself in the last period has
become very prominent in the present.

     Our science has become cut up into numerous depart
ments, studied by different individuals, who in general care
little, and know less, of any department of the subject but the
one of their own choice. Miiller, Retzius, Eschricht, Hyrtl,
Henle, Schwann, Vrolik, and others, still grasp the science in
its totality, as was done by Haller, Hunter, and the Meckels ;
but in general the title of anatomist in the present day does
not indicate this extent of knowledge.

     He may be merely a comparative anatomist, or only a

human anatomist ; his knowledge may extend no further than
the relation of parts in surgical regions, or the general struc
ture of the viscera ; or, still worse, his knowledge may consist

of that heterogeneous kind --facts grouped together, not by the

harmonious laws of nature, but by the circumstance of their
being observed by means of the microscope. You will at once
perceive that such a one-sided knowledge as this can possess

ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.  365

no vivifying principle. It cannot be productive. It never

can be effectually employed in advancing the boundaries of
the science, in applying it legitimately to medicine, or in

elucidating its true principles to those who are learning.

Here, gentlemen, lie the difficulties you will meet with in

your anatomical studies. It is my duty to guide you past

them, and to assist you in acquiring such a general, accurate,
and well-balanced knowledge of the subject as shall fit you

for the important duties you are afterwards to undertake. To
see how this is to be done, let us examine briefly the direction

our science has taken during the last ten or fifteen years.
     The beautiful observations of Harvey and Malpighi on

the formation of the cluck in ovo, and the remarkable micro
scopic researches of Hooke and Leeuwenhoeck on the intimate
structure of the textures and minute parte of plants and ani

mals, much as they excited attention at the time, were almost
forgotten, and the subject laid aside, principally on account of

the imperfect glasses of the period. It was one of those
attempts to advance a science in a direction for which it was

not fully prepared, and belongs to a class of events which may
be traced as well in the general history of nations as in the

progress of the various departments of human knowledge.
The more precise application by Mr. Lister of the different
refracting powers of crown and flint glass, to correct the
chromatic aberration of the compound microscope, again
enabled anatomists to employ the instrument. About this
time Von Baer and Purkinje, two German anatomists, began

to use the microscope extensively -- the former on the then

neglected researches of Harvey and Malpighi, the latter on
those of Hooke and Leeuwenhoeck

     Von Baer, followed by Eathke, Huschke, and a number of
other German anatomists, speedily amassed a series of facts
and principles, which now form an extensive department of
our science--" the Anatomy of the gradual formation of the

366  ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.

embryos of all animals and plants." The exclusive culti
vation of this department of the subject has within the last
few years fortunately become amalgamated with the general
science, and has given place to a much more general cultiva
tion of an apparently more easy and therefore more attractive
pursuit, originating in the researches of Johannes Miiller, Henle,
and Schwann, in co-operation with the vegetable anatomists

--the intimate structure of the different textures and fluids, as

revealed by the microscope and by chemical re-agents. The
appellation Histology has been applied by the Germans to
this subject, and there is no reason why the term should not
be transplanted into our British nomenclature as well as others
for which our language has not equivalent expressions. But

I must warn you, for there is absolute danger in its use, against

the term physiological anatomy now becoming fashionable.

IThere is nothing, can assure you, gentlemen, which has more

retarded science and philosophy, and the kindred subjects on
which human reason has been employed, than the introduction
of terms with conventional meanings. Men come at last to

defend the terms, as if they were the truth, and to mistake

an artificial shadow for the substance required. The general

advance has been retarded by partial and trifling skirmishing
in the rear, instead of being pressed forward by an actual
attack on the enemy itself. Is the intimate anatomy of the
textures the only department of our science related to physio
logy ? Is the anatomy of masses not as strictly physiological
as the structure of atoms ? And is it not at least injudicious
in those who may be able fully to appreciate the value of their
own terms to run the risk of leading others astray ?

   IAnd here, gentlemen, must be allowed to add a few

words, first, in explanation of an apparent harshness which,

I suspect, may have crept into my observations on the pursuit

of anatomy by means of the microscope, partly to warn you

Iagainst the dangers which dread. It would be strange if I,

       ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.                                367

who have derived both pleasure and instruction from the use

of the microscope, and who have had it in my hands almost

daily since the commencement of my anatomical studies

sixteen years ago, should entertain or promote any prejudice

against that instrument. It is against the abuse, not the use,
I Iof it which warn you.
                          beg of you not to employ
      is                                                                                       or
                                 is
                                                            it

                                                                                           a
                                                                                          it,
be induced by auy one to do so, until you have to certain

extent mastered the details of descriptive human anatomy.
       the grammar of our science -- the modeller of our
That

anatomical ideas. It  by the study of that we acquire

the habit of thinking as anatomists, and drawing as anatomists.
As soon would the astronomer place the telescope in the hands
of his pupil, and request him to interpret the sinuous lines by
which the orbits of the planets are projected on the apparent

. surface of the hollow sphere, before he has acquired steady
   ideas of astronomical forms and motions by preparatory studies,

as would the judicious teacher of anatomy suggest the exami

nation of objects by the microscope before strict anatomical
ideas of form and relation had been acquired by the study of

the bones, muscles, and blood-vessels. The child at birth

does not, as you are aware, see things as they really are in

space the full use of his eyes he only gains after series ofis a

instinctive experiments made by means of his other senses.;

It thus that he comes at last to use, without conscious

effort, organs which in themselves are no mere physical

instruments. Now, the telescope and the microscope are addi

tional eyes, and before they can be aright employed on the
objects with which the astronomer and anatomist have to do,

   supplementary education must be submitted to (an educa
tion the more irksome that the other senses cannot be employed
a
               i.

                                   is,
                                                            2
                                                        b
to interpret the revelations of the new instrument) in order
that the minute structures on the one hand and the heavenly

bodies on the other may be correctly examined. The only

mode of procedure in the one case, to form astronomical ideas

vol.

368 ON THE PROGRESS OF ANATOMY.

by the study of geometry and the result of former research ; in
the latter, to reason from the forms and relations of the
anatomy of large masses to the forms and relations indicated

by microscopical appearances.

     You will now be prepared, gentlemen, in some measure to

Icomprehend the principles which shall inculcate for your

guidance. From among the innumerable facts within our

Ireach shall select and group together those which best illus

trate the grand laws of the science, and which, in the hands
of modern anatomists, have afforded such brilliant results.

I IIn this manner, trust shall be enabled to accomplish what
I have long felt to be necessary in the present day, and

especially in this country --a course of anatomical instruction,

in which, without losing sight for one moment of the para
mount importance of human anatomy, the laws of organic
structure shall be evolved, so as to afford, as completely as
possible, a view of that wide range of anatomical knowledge
which is so essential to the advancement of scientific medicine.

        DIVISION II.

COMPARATIVE ANATOMY.






                    DIVISION II.

       VI.-- ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS
                LANCEOLATUS.*-- Plate I. II.

The genus Amphioxus was instituted by Mr. Yarrell for the
reception of a singular little animal which he received from Mr.

JCouch. The characters of this genus, as given in the History

of British Fishes, are, " body compressed, the surface without
scales, both ends pointed, a single dorsal fin extending the
whole length of the back ; no pectoral, ventral, anal, or
caudal fins ; mouth on the under part of the head, narrow,
elongated, each lateral margin furnished with a row of slender
filaments."

     My attention was particularly directed to Mr. Yarrell's
description of the Lancelet, by an announcement by my friend
Mr. Forbes, at the Newcastle Meeting of the British Associa
tion, of the capture of two specimens on the Manx coast.
With his characteristic liberality, that gentleman has put these

Itwo specimens into my hands, with a request that would

employ them for the purpose of drawing up a detailed account
of the animal.

   IUnwilling to mutilate both, have confined my dissections

to one of the individuals, and have been fortunate enough to
detect its leading anatomical peculiarities, to verify most of
the observations of the anatomists who have preceded me in

                * Read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh May 3, 1841.

              t Ynrrell's History of British Fishes, vol. ii. page 468.

372  ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.

the investigation, and to correct what appeared to me to have
been errors in their observations. To complete the history of

the Lancelet, however, an examination of it when alive in
sea-water must be undertaken. In this way only, can certain

points in its structure and actions be explained, and light be
thrown on the economy of one of the most anomalous of the

vertebrated animals.
     The first notice which we have of the Lancelet is in the

Spicilegia Zoologica of Pallas, * who received his specimens
from the coast of Cornwall. Although he observed its
ichthyic characters, he allowed himself to be misled by its
other peculiarities, and part icularly by the membranous folds of
the abdomen. He described it well, but placed it in the
genus Limax, under the designation Limax lanceolaius.

      Professor Jameson has directed my attention to the first

volume of Stewart's Elements of Natural History, \ in which

the Lancelet is described as a Limax with the specific desig-
 mtion lanceolaris. Mr. Stewart's description is evidently an
abstract from that of Pallas, to whom he refers. He had,
however, a right appreciation of the essential characters, as
he states that the animal is " hardly a Limax."

    It is to Mr. Yarrell, however, in his most valuable work

on British Fishes, that we are indebted for the first detailed
account of this animal. He recognised in his solitary specimen,

the Limax lanceolatus of Pallas. In his description, which is

in other respects most correct, he has omitted the lateral
membranous folds of the abdomen, so well observed and
embodied in the description of Pallas. Mr. Yarrell observed

the vertebral column, the ichthyic lateral muscles, dorsal fin,

intestines, and ovaries, and transferred the animal, therefore,

to the Vertebrata. He placed it in the family Petromyzidae,

near the cyclostomous fishes, as he considered the fringed

                           * Pallas, Sjric. Zool. x. p. 19, t. i. Fig. 11.

         t Stewart's Elements of Natural History, 2d ed. vol. i. p. 386.

ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.  373

mouth, the armed lingual bone, the absence of eyes, and the
want of pectoral and ventral fins, to be structural characters
sufficient to connect it with the Lamprey and Myxine. For
its reception he constituted a new genus, Amphioxus, and
described the species under the designation lanceolatus, looking
upon it as the lowest in organisation in the class of fishes.*

     Mr. Couch, the indefatigable ichthyologist of Polperro,
who supplied Mr. Yarrell with his specimen, published in the

Magazine of Natural History, July 1838, a short paper, in

which he gave some additional details of structure observed
before the animal had been immersed in spirits. He con
sidered it to be a fish with sixty vertebrae. He observed the
anal fin, which had escaped Mr. Yarrell in the preserved
specimen ; he also described what he considered an anomalous
kind of fin rays, in the form of transverse bows or arches, the
curve forming the support of the fin, the pillars probably resting
on transverse spinous processes of the vertebrae. He observed

that these peculiar rays did not extend to the caudal portion of

either the dorsal or anal fins. In his second specimen, on

which the observations of structure were made, he could detect
none of the ova which were so conspicuous in the first.

   I Iwas not aware till had almost finished my examination

of the Lancelet, that anything further had been published on

Ithe subject. A few weeks ago, however, observed in the

proceedings of the Berlin Academy for 1839, an abstract of
a paper on Amphioxus lanceolatus by Professor Miiller.
From this abstract it appears that Professor Retzius of Stock
holm has written a short memoir on the subject, in which he
has announced the fact, observed by himself and Professor
Sandevall, that the chorda dorsalis does not pass into a

cranium, but terminates at a point behind it. Professor

     * Yarrell's British Fishes, loc. cit.

    t Bericht ttber die zur Bekann tmachung geeigneten Vcrhandlungen dor

Konigl. Preuss. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin. Nov. 1839, p. 197.

374  ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.

Retzius describes the spinal marrow as terminating consider

ably behind the anterior extremity of the chorda dorsalis, in

a brain exhibiting scarcely any dilatation. He perceived a
dark point which he supposed might be the rudiment of an

eye, but he could observe no cerebral nerves. He saw

numerous ribs, but no branchial clefts, and described a large

opening at the posterior extremity of the gill-cavity, which
he supposed to be a branchial opening similar to those in

the myxine.

     Miiller's own observations were made upon Mr. Yarrell's

specimen, and also upon two sent to him by Eetzius. He

verified Retzius's and Sandevall's account of the chorda dorsalis,

on the sheath of which he perceived circular fibres. The

oral filaments he described as consisting of central and tegu-

mentary portions. The black spot or rudiment of an eye he

could not detect. He observed the general structure of the

branchial cavity, ribs, and vessels, but did not determine

the existence of the branchial aperture described by Eetzius.

He states that the intestine terminates anteriorly in a cul-de-

sac, a little behind which the branchial cavity opens into it

on the left side. He supposed that some glandular streaks on

the wall of the cul-de-sac of the intestine represented the

liver, and considered a row of glandular masses on each side,

consisting of cells containing dusky oval bodies as the ovaries.

After some remarks on the structure of the muscles and skin

of the Lancelet, Professor Miiller states the necessity for

further observations to ascertain the details of its structure.

     The only specimens of the Lancelet, then, which have

been examined are Pallas's specimen, Mr. Couch's two speci
mens, one of which is in the possession of Mr. Yarrell, the

specimens examined by Retzius, Sandevall, and Miiller, and
Ithe two in my own collection. Two specimens,
                                                        believe,

exist in the Museum of the Zoological Society of London.*

             * Magazine of Natural History, July 1S38.

         ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPUIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.                                         375

     Having now stated what has already been done in the

Ianatomy of this remarkable animal, shall proceed to de
Iscribe in detail the structure of the specimen have depicted,

reserving for the concluding part any general observations

I may have to make on its structure and zoological cha

racter.

The dimensions and weight of the specimen of Amphioxus

which has afforded the materials for this paper, are, length two
inches ; depth, a little before the middle, two lines ; weight eight

grains. The other specimen in my possession is half-an-

inch shorter, and not so favourable for examination. They

were dredged up by Mr. Forbes from a sandbank, in deep

water, on the east coast of the Isle of Man, were extremely

active, and resembled, on superficial inspection, small sand-

eels. On each side of the abdomen are two longitudinal

membranous folds, and behind them an anal fin, omitted in

Mr. Yarrell's description. The folds commence, minute, on

each side of the hyoid apparatus, pass back on the sides of
the abdomen, increasing in breadth till they are as broad as

one-fifth of the depth of the animal ; they then diminish and

terminate at the point where the lateral muscles approach on

each side of the intestine, that  at the junction of the
a
     a
         a it,

                       is
                              a

                                 ; it

                                              is
                                                it is,
                                                           is is,
                                                                                    a

                                                                                      is
middle and posterior thirds of the animal.

The anal fin  fold of integument, which, commencing

at the point where the abdominal folds terminate,                                         con

tinued to the anus, where         interrupted, but reappearing

behind   and becoming broader, passes on to be continuous

with the dorsal fin at the extremity of the tail. The existence

of median fin in front of the anus as has been observed

by Miiller, very remarkable but   in exact accordance

with fact mentioned to me by Professor Agassiz, that in

certain fresh-water fishes, the development of which he had

watched, fin of this kind, with rays, exists for short period
of their embryonic existence, and then disappears.

370 on the anatomy of amphioxus lanceolatus.

          Anatomical Description of the Amphioxus.

                                            Osseous System.

    ^euro-skeleton. -- The osseous system, properly so called,
consists of a " chorda dorsalis " tapering at both ends, without
the vestige of a cranium, and of a dorsal and ventral series of
cells, the germs of superior and inferior interspinous bones
and fin-rays. The "chorda dorsalis" consists of sixty to
seventy vertebrae, the divisions between which are indicated
by slight bulgings, and lines passing obliquely from above
downwards on the sides of the column. Tn this way a separa
tion into individual vertebrae is rather indicated than proved

to exist ; for although the column has certainly a tendency to
divide at the points above mentioned, yet that division is
rather artificial than natural There is no difficulty in
ascertaining above sixty divisions, those at each end above
the number stated run so much into one another that no
correct result can be obtained.

     The chorda dorsalis is formed externally of a fibrous sheath,
and internally of an immense number of laminie, each of
the size and shape of a section of the column at the place
where it is situated. When any portion of the column is
removed, these plates may be pushed out from the tubular
sheath, like a pile of coins. They have no great adhesion to
one another, are of the consistence of parchment, and appear

like flattened bladders, as if formed of two tough fibrous

membranes pressed together.
     As the fibres of the sheath are principally circular, provi

sion is made for longitudinal strains on the column by the
addition of a superior and inferior vertebral ligament, as
strong cords stretching along its dorsal and ventral aspects.
The superior ligament lies immediately under the spinal cord,
and may be recognised as a very tough filament, when the
column is torn asunder, or sonic of the vertebrae removed.

                                                                                                      <

ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.  377

The inferior ligament may be raised from the inferior surface
of the column in the form of a tough ribbon. From the sides
of the column aponeurotic laminae pass off to form septa of

attachment between the muscular bundles ; and along the
mesial plane above the column, a similar lamina separates
the superior bundles of each side, and by splitting below and
running into the sides of the column, forms a fibrous canal for
the spinal cord. Foramina exist all along the sides of this

oanal for the passage of the nerves. A similar septum is

situated along the inferior part of the column, from the part

where the inferior muscular bundles unite at the anus, to the

extremity of the tail. Along the superior edge of the

aponeurotic septum, between the dorsal muscular bundles, and
stretching from the anterior point of the vertebral column to
a point beyond the anus, and half embedded between the
superior extremities of the muscles, is a series of closed cells
of a flattened cylindrical form, adhering firmly to one another
by their bases, so as to present the appearance of a tube
 flattened on the sides with septa at regular distances. Each

of these cells is full of a transparent fluid, in the centre of
 which is an irregular mass of semi-opaque globules, apparently
 cells. This series of cylindrical sacs consists of the rudiments
 of interspinous bones, and probably of fin rays, and is
 attached below to the fibrous intermuscular septa, half covered

 on each side by the lateral muscles, and enclosed above by the

 tegumentary fold which constitutes the dorsal fin.

     A similar series of cells, with the same relations, is

 situated on the ventral surface of the body, and stretches from

 the spot where the abdominal folds terminate, to a point
 nearly opposite the termination of the dorsal series.

      Splanchno-skeldon. --The splanchno-skeleton consists of a
 hyoid apparatus and a series of branchial ribs, seventy or
 eighty on each side. This division of the skeleton will be
 described along with the respiratory apparatus, with which
 it is intimately connected.

 378 ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPIIIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.

                                       Nervous System.

      The spinal cord is situated on the upper surface of the
 chorda dorsalis, enclosed in the canal formed in the manner
 above described. When the whole length of this canal is
 displayed by removing the muscles, and then carefully opened,
the spinal cord is seen lying in the interior, with nerves

passing out from it on each side. It stretches along the

whole length of the spine, is acuminated at both ends, and
exhibits not the slightest trace of cerebral development. In
its middle third, where it is most developed, it has the form
of a ribbon, the thickness of which is about one-fourth or
one-fifth of its breadth ; and along this portion, also, it presents
on its upper surface a broad, but shallow groove. The other
two-thirds of the cord are not so flat, and are not grooved
above, are smaller than the middle third, and taper gradually;
the one towards the anterior, the other towards the posterior
extremity of the vertebral column. A streak of black pigment

runs along the middle of the upper surface of the cord. It is
situated in the groove already described, and is in greater

abundance anteriorly and posteriorly, where the nerves pass
off at shorter intervals, than at the middle or broadest part of
the organ. From fifty-five to sixty nerves pass off from each
side of the cord ; but, as the anterior and posterior vertebra
are very minute, and run into one another, and as the spinal

cord itself almost disappears at the two extremities, it is im

possible to ascertain the exact number, either of vertebrae or
of spinal nerves. These nerves are not connected to the
spinal marrow by double roots, but are inserted at once into
its edges in the form of simple cords.

     The nerves pass out of the intervertebral foramina of the
membranous spinal canal, divide into two sets of branches,
one of which run up between the dorsal muscular bundles
(dorsal branches) ; the other (ventral branches) run obliquely

ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPIIIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.  379

downwards and backwards on the surface of the fibrous sheath

of the vertebral column ; attach themselves to the antero
posterior aspect of each of the inferior muscular bundles, and
may be distinctly traced beyond the extremity of each bundle.
When an entire animal is examined by transmitted light, and

a sufficient magnifying power, the anterior extremity of the
spinal cord is observed, as before mentioned, to terminate in a
minute filament above the anterior extremity of the vertebral
column. The first pair of nerves is excessively minute, and

passes into the membranous parts at the anterior superior
angle of the mouth. The second pair is considerably larger,
and, like the first pair, passes out of the canal in front of the

anterior muscular bundle. The second pair immediately sends

a considerable branch (corresponding to the dorsal branches

of the other nerves) upwards and backwards, along the anterior
edge of the first dorsal muscular bundle. This branch joins
the dorsal branch of the third pair, and, passing on, joins a
considerable number of these in succession, and at last becomes
too minute to be traced farther. After sending off this dorsal

branch, the second pair passes downwards, and backwards on
each side above the hyoid apparatus and joins all the ventral
branches of the other spinal nerves in succession, as its dorsal
branch did along the back. This ventral branch of the second

pair is very conspicuous, and may be easily traced along the
line formed by the inferior extremities of the ventral divisions
of the muscular bundles, the ventral branches of the other

nerves joining it at acute angles between each bundle. It

may be traced beyond the anus, but is lost sight of near the
extremity of the tail. Twigs undoubtedly pass from the
spinal and lateral nerves towards the abdominal surface of the
body, but, on account of their minuteness, and the difficulty
of detecting them in detached portions of the abdominal

membrane, they could not be satisfactorily seen.
     When a portion of the spinal cord is examined under a

380 ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCE OLATUS.

sufficient magnifying power, it is seen to be composed entirely

of nucleated cells, very loosely attached to one another, but

enclosed in an excessively delicate covering of pia mater. The

cells are not arranged in any definite direction, except in the

middle third of the cord, where they assume a longitudinal

linear direction, but without altering their primitive spherical

form. The black pigment, formerly mentioned as existing

more particularly on the upper surface and groove, is observed

to be more abundant opposite the origin of the nerves ; and,

as it is regularly arranged in this manner in dark masses along

the anterior and posterior thirds of the cord, the organ in these

places, on superficial inspection, resembles much the abdominal

ganglionic cord of an annulose animal. Along the middle

third the pigment is not so regular, but appears in spots at

short intervals. When any portion of the cord, however, is

slightly compressed, and microscopically examined, it becomes

                             a
                                      is,
evident that there along the groove and mesial line of its

upper surface, band, consisting of cells of larger size than
                                              is a
those composing the rest of the organ. Some of these cells

only are filled with black pigment, but all of them contain a

fluid of brown tint, which renders the tract of large cells
is
              a

                          ;
distinctly visible. When the compression increased the

cells burst and the fluid which flows from the central tract

seen to contain jet black granules, which may be detected

as they escape from the cells.

The nerves consist of primitive fibres, of cylindrical
                                                    it, a
shape, with faint longitudinal striae. The primitive fibres of

trunk pass off into branch, in the usual way, without
a

                     ;

                                           a
dividing and, where the trunks join the spinal cord, the

primitive fibres are seen to approach close to           but without

passing into it. The greater part of the slightly protuberant

origin consisting of the nucleated cells of the cord, with a few

pigment cells interspersed, the exact mode of termination of

the central extremities of the primitive nervous fibres could

not be detected.

ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.  381

                                      Muscular System.

       This system is highly symmetrical, consisting of a series
 of lateral muscular bundles, corresponding in number, size,
  and position, to the vertebrae of the " chorda dorsalis." These
 bundles have a general resemblance to the division of the
 lateral muscles of the higher fishes. Each bundle consists of
 a dorsal and ventral portion. The dorsal passes from the
 lateral line, on a level with the vertebral column, backwards

 and upwards ; the ventral passes from the same level, down
 wards and backwards. The inferior bundle is the longest ;
 and both of them have a somewhat conical shape, and are
 attached to the spinal column and skin by the aponeurotic
 septa formerly described. The fibres of these muscles pass
 respectively from before, obliquely upwards and downwards
 almost, but not completely, in the direction of the muscular
 bundle, along that portion of the trunk occupied by the
 branchial portion of the intestinal tube. The ventral bundles
 pass half-way over the dilated cavity, and terminate in blunted
 extremities, which are attached to the skin, and to the walls

 of the branchial compartment, so as to dilate it for the recep
 tion of sea-water. Beyond the anus the ventral bundles are
attached to each side of the fibrous septum above described,
meeting below in a sharp ridge. Between the anus and the
branchial cavity, where these muscles inclose the digestive
portion of the intestinal tube, they do not meet completely
below, but are connected by an aponeurosis, which forms a
strong tendinous arch at the point in front, where the muscles
separate more completely. The whole cavity of the trunk, which
is occupied by the intestinal tube, is lined by a fine aponeurotic
membrane, which, about the lower edge of the lateral muscles,
becomes muscular, and shuts in the whole of the inferior part
of the trunk from the mouth to the tendinous arch formerly
described. This abdominal muscle consists of two layers

382 ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.

--an external, apparently longitudinal ; an internal, trans

verse.
      The only muscle in the Lancelet for performing a special

function is a flat bundle, connecting and bringing together the
two halves of the hyoid apparatus, for the purpose of closing
the mouth.

     Under the microscope the primitive fibres of the lateral
muscles exhibit the usual transverse striae, but are not collected
into fasciculi, constituting immediately the mass of the tissue.
Transverse striae are not observable in the fibres of the
abdominal muscle.

                                    Intestinal System.

     This system appears as a tube passing nearly in a straight

line from mouth to anus. It consists of two portions --an

anterior, large and dilated, and appropriated to the respiratory
function ; and a posterior, small, of pretty uniform calibre,
and constituting the proper digestive apparatus. The res
piratory portion of the canal will be described afterwards in
connection with the vascular system. The mode in which
the digestive communicates with the branchial department

of the tube could not be satisfactorily made out. It

appeared, however, that the branchial cavity, becoming
smaller, curved slightly of itself towards the left side,
and then proceeded directly, and without any change in its
calibre, to the anus. The anus is in the form of a longitudinal
slit.

     There is not the slightest trace of a liver, or of any other
assistant chylopoietic viscus. The gut was full of a brown
granular matter, tinged, probably, by a bilious secretion from
the walls of the bowel.

                                  Respiratory System.

     This system is constituted by the anterior compartment of

ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.  383

the intestinal tube, on the walls of which a peculiar vascular

arrangement exists for the aeration of the blood, and the com

plicated skeleton superadded, for the efficient performance of

that function.

   IIn connection with the respiratory apparatus, shall, as

formerly proposed, describe the splanchno-skeleton. This
division of the osseous system consists of a hyoid apparatus

and of a range of branchial ribs.

     The hyoid apparatus supports the mouth, and guards its
entrance. The mouth is in the form of a longitudinal slit,

and is bounded on each side by the two divisions of the hyoid
apparatus. Each of these consists of seventeen pieces
articulated together. From each of these pieces, except the
first, a ray proceeds, those at the extremities of the two

divisions being shorter than those at the centre. The anterior

extremities of the two divisions, or branches of the apparatus,

meet at the anterior superior angle of the mouth ; and the

two posterior, after curving forward, meet at the posterior
inferior angle. The various pieces of which this apparatus

consists have the consistence of cartilage. They are hollow

along the bases, and to the points of the rays. Their cavities
appear to be full of a transparent fluid containing here and
there masses of globular cells, exactly similar to those in the
interspinous bones. This part of the skeleton is covered by

the integuments, and by the membrane of the branchial cavity.

A fringe of the integument surrounds the hyoid rays, extending

a little beyond their bases. This fringe must be considered

as the lip or margin of the mouth, the hyoid rays, although

occasionally dependent, belonging properly to the cavity of the
mouth. The rami of the hyoid are brought together, and the

mouth closed, by the transverse muscle formerly described.

      Immediately behind the hyoid apparatus the branchial
cavity commences, and continues as a dilated tube, which at

last contracts, and becomes continuous, as formerly described

VOL. I.  2c

384  ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.

with the digestive portion of the intestine. The walls of the
two anterior thirds of the branchial cavity are strengthened
on each side by a series of transparent cartilaginous, highly
elastic, hair-like ribs, which are imbedded in their substance.
The upper extremities of these ribs are fixed in two streaks of
a tough white substance, which runs along on each side of the
inferior surface of the chorda dorsalis, on the sides of the
inferior longitudinal ligament. The inferior extremities of
the ribs terminate in a more complicated manner. Each
alternate pair of ribs bifurcates. The inferior branch of the
rib on each side meets its fellow of the opposite side at an
angle in the median line. The superior branch curves up

also, and meets that of the other side. The non-bifurcated

ribs are shorter, and terminate in a line with the bifurcation

of the neighbouring pairs. There results from this arrange
ment a sort of skeleton canal, the walls of which are completed

by membrane. There are from seventy to eighty ribs on each
side. Their general direction is from above downwards and

from before backwards, but more perpendicular than the
ventral bundles of the lateral muscles, with which they form
acute angles. Along the edges of these ribs vessels pass for
the performance of the respiratory function, and the canal

above described contains the branchial artery or heart.

                                      Vascular System.

     In the canal which has been described as passing along
the inferior wall of the branchial compartment of the intestinal
tube, a vessel runs. This vessel diminishes anteriorly ; and,
posteriorly, it also diminishes, and is lost in the direction of
the digestive tube. Valves, if they exist, have not been
detected in this tube. At the extremities of each pair of
bifurcated ribs, the abdominal vessel just described gives off

a primary branch, which passes along the edge of the rib,
sending secondary branches at regular intervals and at right
angles to the other primary branches on each side. Along

ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS  385

the opposite sides of all the ribs another set of vessels may be
seen, passing on to the chorda dorsalis, enlarging as they
advance, and sending off secondary branches at right angles.
When near the heads of the ribs, these vessels anastomose in
semicircular loops, the canals of which are of large calibre,
and the -walls provided with distinct circular fibres. From
the angles between each of these loops, and continuous, there
fore, with the primary branches, smaller trunks pass on to
the median line, and enter, opposite to their fellow at the
other side, into a small longitudinal vessel which runs along
the whole length of the chorda dorsalis, between the heads of
the ribs, and on the inferior surface of the inferior longitudinal
ligament. This vessel is the Aorta, and distributes arterial
branches to the various parts of the body.

                                         Generative System.

     This system consists of a series of somewhat irregular,
bean-shaped, granular bodies, situated each on the inside of
the inferior extremity of the ventral portions of twenty or
thirty of the muscular bundles of the middle third of the
animal. These masses are attached to the internal surface of
the aponeurotic lining of the abdomen, on the outside of the
branchial chamber. No duct or outlet could be detected.
Each mass, under the microscope, displayed a congeries of cells
of various sizes, evidently incipient ova or sperm cells. The
individual did not appear to be in season.

                                   Tegumentary System.

     The skin is remarkably thin, but tough ; and exhibits
neither scales, pigment, nor metallic lustre, except at the base
of the dorsal fin, along which, or the upper edge of the inter-
spinous bones, a silvery band of considerable strength passes.
The skin, under the microscope, displays minute parallel
strife, which occasionally cross one another. The beautiful
iridescent tints which it exhibits, both before and after detach

386 ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.

ment, appear to be caused by these strife ; and the same
structure probably produces similar phenomena in the apon
eurosis which lines the cavity of the abdomen.

                             Concluding Remarks.

     At a very early period in the development of every verte-

brated animal, the cerebro-spinal axis presents the appearance

of a white elongated streak. At the same period, and in
accordance with this simple condition of the nervous central

organ, the skeleton consists of a chorda dorsalis, and very soon
afterwards, of some of the peripheral elements of the spinal

column. A central organ of circulation, in the form of a tube

on the anterior inferior aspect of the embryo, invariably co
exists with the simplest forms of the nervous and osseous
systems. Branchial clefts and a liver are parts of the embryo
of the vertebrated animal which are never found to accompany

a cerebro-spinal axis of the simplest form, or a heart before it

becomes divided into compartments.
      No adult vertebrated animal has hitherto been described

which at all approaches in organisation the simplicity of the
embryonic forms to which allusion has just been made. Such
an animal, a being perfected before the appearance of branchial
clefts, might have been conceived ; and, from the laws of
organic development, its position in the system might have
been indicated. As Amphioxus makes a close approximation
to this simplicity of type, it may be useful to consider the
relation of its different organs one to another.

     One of the most remarkable peculiarities in the Lancelet
is the absence of the brain. Eetzius, indeed, describes the
spinal marrow as terminating considerably behind the anterior
extremity of the chorda dorsalis, in a brain which exhibits
scarcely any dilatation ; but careful examination of the dis

Isection of my own specimen, which have also submitted to

the inspection of Dr. John Eeid, and of other competent

judges, has convinced me that the spinal cord, which may be

ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.  387

traced with the greatest ease to within l-16th of an inch of

the extremity of the chorda dorsalis, does not dilate into a

brain at all It may be urged that we ought to consider the

anterior half of the middle third of the spinal marrow, where
it is most developed, to be the brain, and all that portion of
the chorda dorsalis which is in connection with the branchial

cavity, as the cranium. That this does not express the true

relation of the parts, is evident from the fact, that this portion
of the cord, to its very extremity, gives off nerves, which are
too numerous to be considered as cerebral, but more especially
from the mode of distribution of the first and second pairs,
which, in my opinion, proves the anterior pointed extremity
to be the representative of the brain of the more highly

developed vertebrata. A brain of such simplicity necessarily

precludes, on anatomical grounds alone, the existence of organs
of vision and of hearing. These special organs, developed in
the vertebrata at least, in a direct relation with the cephalic
integuments and the brain, could not exist, even in the form
of appreciable germs, in the Lancelet. The black spot which
Retzius took for the rudiment of an eye may probably have

been, what also deceived me at first, a portion of the black
mud which floats about in the branchial cavity, and which
adheres obstinately to the parts in the neighbourhood of the
oral filaments. The first pair of nerves, although very minute,
in accordance with the slight development of the parts about

the snout, and the want of special organs of sense, might, from
their position and relations, be considered as corresponding to
the trifacial in the higher vertebrata. The second pair

appears to be the vagus, not only from its distribution as a
longitudinal filament on each side of the body, as in other
fishes, but also from its relations to the hyoid apparatus and

branchial cavity, to which division of organs the eighth pair
in fishes is specially devoted. The distribution of a branch of
this nerve, however, along the base of the dorsal fin, and the

course of the posterior part of the main branch, would appear

388  ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATOS.

Ito show that this nerve, which have provisionally de

                is                     in fact, the trifacial, which, in the
                                  is,
nominated the Vagus,

higher fishes, not only distributed to all the fins, but holds

exactly the same relations to the dorsal and anal fins, and to

the spinal nerves, as the nerve now under- consideration in

the Lancelet.

     The peculiarities in the structure of the spinal cord are

not less remarkable than those of its configuration. It
                a

                                                                          ;

                                               if
                                                      it

                                                                                        a is
difficult to understand, according to the received opinions on

the subject, how spinal cord destitute of primitive fibres or
tubes, and composed altogether of isolated cells, arranged in

linear direction only towards the middle of the cord, can

transmit influences in any given direction and more especially

how the tract of black or grey matter,              exercises any

pecuhar function (excito-motary) communicates with the

origin of the nerves. The nerves, also, are remarkable, origi
nating in single roots, and containing in their composition one

kind only of primitive fibres (cylindrical).

     In reference to the skeleton of the Lancelet,                              evidently
     aa
                        a
                             a

                                                        a

                                                               it
                                                                          : is
of the simplest kind. If we limit the term skeleton to the

Neuro-Skeleton, this animal possesses only the primitive form
of such skeleton -- chorda dorsalis without any cranial

enlargement, with dorsal and ventral series of germs of
interspinous bones and fin rays --peripheral elements of a

spinal column.

From consideration of the particular class of embryonic

forms to which this fish corresponds, we could not expect

either bone or cartilage in the composition of its skeleton.

Accordingly, the skeleton consists of series of sacs, assuming

particular forms according to their several positions flattened

in the chorda dorsalis, cylindrical in the fin bones. These

sacs are easily derived, according to established histological

laws, from the primitive nucleated cells which constitute the

tissue of their representatives in the embryo, and contain, in

their interior, cells, or the nuclei of cells. This view of the

        ON THE ANATOSIY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.  389

tissue of the skeleton of the Lancelet is based on a law of

organisation which is not usually recognised in questions like
the present, viz. -- that adult organs representing embryonic
organs, are altered so as to be fit for the performance of their
functions, but never so far as to depart, either in tissue or

form, from the type of their corresponding embryonic organs.

The arch-shaped fin rays, described by Mr. Couch, are merely
the dissepiments between the cylindrical germs of the fin

bones.

     The leading peculiarity of the Lancelet, considered as a
representative of an embryonic form in the adult series is the
want of true gills or branchial arches -- the deficiency of

branchial clefts. Betzius, indeed, describes an opening at the

posterior part of the branchial cavity, which he compares to
Ithe abdominal openings in the Myxine ; but as
Iunable to discover this opening in my specimens,  have been
                                                   agree with

Muller in considering its existence as highly problematical, and

I shall proceed to demonstrate that, in accordance with the

plan on which the other organic systems of this animal are

formed, such an opening into the branchial chamber could not
exist. The abdominal openings in the Myxine are the result
of the closure of its numerous branchial clefts by the integu
ments. They are analogous, in fact, to the branchial orifices
of the tadpole, immediately before cessation of the aquatic
respiration. The respiratory apparatus of the Myxine, then,
although inferior in functional activity to that of other fishes,

is actually referable to a more elevated type. The Myxine
possesses a brain in which the central masses are considerably
evolved, and a nervus vagus of sufficient development. The
brain of the Lancelet, again, is reduced to a mere filament,
and the existence of a nervus vagus appears to be highly

problematical. These considerations, and the fact that
branchial openings have not been detected by Yarrell, Couch.
Muller, or myself, must lead to the conclusion that this fish

has either never had branchial clefts at any period of its

390 ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.

existence, or that if it at any time had them, they must have
Itotally disappeared.
                       am inclined to believe that the former

is the real state of the case, not only from the views already

urged in reference to the other organs in this animal, but also

from the consideration that if these clefts had ever existed

their traces would have remained. As the seventy or eighty

pairs of branchial ribs cannot be looked upon as true branchial

arches, and as we cannot suppose that any vertebrated animal

could have so many branchial fissures, we are driven to the

conclusion that the Lancelet never had at any period of its

existence true branchial arches and clefts, and that the ribs have

been developed for a special purpose-- for a mode of branchial

respiration hitherto undescribed in the class of fishes.

     The Lancelet respires by receiving sea-water into the

anterior compartment of its intestinal tube-- this cavity is

kept dilated by the elasticity of the numerous filamentous ribs,

and this dilatation may be increased by the action of the

superimposed ventral bundles of the lateral muscles. It is

contracted by the action of the abdominal muscle. This is a

mode of respiration similar to that which prevails in the

tunicated molluscs. It is interesting to observe that the

branchial membrane of the Lancelet is exactly similar in its

peculiar vascularity (ramifications at right angles) to that which

lines the branchial cavity of the molluscs just specified.

   If the branchial membrane were examined in the living

animal, it would undoubtedly exhibit cilia in as great abund
ance as in the branchial membrane of the ascidice, and such a

ciliary arrangement must constitute one of the active agencies,
not only in renewing the supply of water for respiration, but
also in conveying food to the orifice of the digestive portion

of the intestinal tube. As in the ascidice, the entrance of the

intestino-respiratory canal is guarded by filaments. The

hyoid filaments of the Lancelet performing the same office as

the filaments at the oral orifice of the ascidice, acting as a

sieve in preventing the entrance of foreign bodies, or of food,

ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.                     391

which it has neither jaws to comminute, nor powers of

Istomach to digest.       do not consider as parts of the neuro-
      The branchial ribs

skeleton, as they bifurcate to enclose the heart, this organ in

the Lancelet being contained in a sac resembling the cartila

ginous pericardium of some other fishes. They are repetitions

of the hyoid bone developed for a new form of branchial

apparatus. They are true splanchno-ribs, parts of a splanchnc-

skeleton, and analogous to the cartilages of the trachea and

branchial tubes (also repetitions of the hyoid bone) of the
higher vertebrata. Some of these splanchno-ribs, had branchial

clefts been developed, would have become true branchial

arches ; but just as in the vertebrata above the fishes, in which

the branchial clefts have disappeared, and tracheal cartilages

have become developed, so in this animal, in which the

branchial clefts have never appeared, cartilaginous arches

have become necessary for its peculiar aquatic respiration.

The hyoid filaments of the Lancelet must not be con

sidered as the analogues of the branchiostegous rays, which

spring from the peripheral aspect of the bone, but as developed

forms of the teeth or tubercles which are ranged along the

central aspect of the branchial apparatus of the higher fishes,

and which are occasionally highly developed for similar

purposes. As the upper jaw is developed from a cranium,

and the lower jaw is formed at a period posterior to the
appearance of the hyoid bone -- the absence of these two bones

is a necessary consequence of the inferior position of the
Lancelet in the series of vertebrate forms.

The plan of the circulation is simple, and in accordance

with the primitive condition of the respiratory apparatus, both
functions being performed in a manner closely resembling

that observed in certain annulose animals. The dorsal vessel

corresponding to the heart or branchial artery, and the

abdominal vessel to the aorta of the Lancelet, the lateral

communicating vessels of certain of the rings in the annelide

392 ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.

performing the respiratory function, like the vessels of the

branchial chamber already described. The development of

cardiac septa and of a liver follow closely, if they do not

accompany, the branchial fissures. The absence of such
fissures in the Lancelet sufficiently explains this deficiency of

parts usually considered essential to the vertebrated animal.

For similar reasons, true renal and generative organs do

not appear in this animal.
     The double row of isolated generative organs are in the

normal position of their embryonic representatives, and not

more advanced in organisation than the Wolffian bodies

at their first appearance. How the contents of these ovisacs

or spermsacs are conveyed to the exterior, it is difficult
Ifto say.
           the abdominal opening described by Professor

Itetzius actually exists, it appears to me much more probable

that it is an opening, not into the branchial, but into the

peritoneal cavity, as in certain of the higher fishes, and that

it performs the double function of admitting sea-water for
peritoneal respiration, and for allowing of the exit of the ova

and sperm from the cavity of the abdomen, into which they

are cast from the glandular organs attached to its lining

Imembrane. This hypothesis, which have had no opportunity

of verifying, gets rid of the difficulty in a satisfactory manner,

explains to a certain extent the observation of Retzius, and is

in accordance with the type of formation in the class.

     Viewed as an entire animal, the Lancelet is the most

aberrant in the vertebrate sub-kingdom. It connects the

Vertebrata not only to the Annulose animals, but also through

the medium of certain symmetrical ascidise (lately described

by Mr. Forbes and myself),* to the Molluscs. We have only

    · Report of the British Association, 1840, and No. XII. of this volume.

An important observation, bearing on the affinities of the Ascidians and
Amphioxus, has recently been made by the discovery by M. Kowalevsky of an
axial cylinder in the tail of the Ascidian larva, which possesses almost the
same structure as the chorda dorsalis of Amphioxus (Mem. de l'Acad. Imp. de

ON THE ANATOMY OF AMPHIOXUS LANCEOLATUS.  393

to suppose the Lancelet to have been developed from the dorsal
aspect, the seat of its respiration to be transferred from its in
testinal tube to a corresponding portion of its skin, and ganglia
to be developed at the points of junction of one or more of its

anterior spinal nerves, and inferior branch of its second pair,
to have a true annulose animal, with its peculiar circulation,
respiration, generative organs, and nervous system, with supra-

cesophageal ganglia, and dorsal ganglionic recurrent nerve.
     As some fishes undergo metamorphoses after leaving the

ovum, the question naturally suggests itself, is the Lancelet an

adult fish ? May it not be the young of some fish in one of
the stages of growth ? The uniformity of every specimen of it

hitherto described, and the peculiar toughness and firmness of
its tissues, appear to be decisive of its being a perfect animal

    In regard to the zoological position of Amphioxus, Mr.

Yarrell was correct in giving it the lowest place in the class

of fishes ; but if the details of its structure, and the anatomical

considerations which this paper contains, be correct, the genus
can no longer be retained in the same family with Petromyzon
and Myxine, but will assume an ordinal value in any new

arrangement of the class.

    If genera allied to Amphioxus are at present in existence,

they are probably not numerous ; but in the ages which have
passed since the development of animal forms commenced,
abranchiated fishes may have been more common ; and the

paleontologist, when his attention is directed to the subject,
may probably be able to refer some anomalous organic remains

to extinct fishes of this order.

St. Petersbonrg, vol. x.) In vol. xi. he has given an account of the de
velopment of Amphioxus. In the Bulletin of the same Academy, vol. xii.

1867, Owsjannikow describes the arrangement and structure of the nervous

system in A. lanceolatus, which, though differing in some points, yet agrees in
others with the statements made in the text. -- Eds.

             PECULIARITIES IN THE STRUCTURE

VII.-- ON CERTAIN PECULIARITIES IN THE STRUC

       TURE OF THE SHORT SUN-FISH (ORTHAGO-
        RISCUS MOLA).*

The anatomy of an animal or vegetable may be investigated

and described with two objects in view ; first, the elucidation
of its habits, and of its true place in the system ; or, secondly,
the discovery of the laws which regulate organic form and

Itissue (Morphological and Teleological laws).                                                 have now to

    It is with the latter object in view that

offer a few observations on certain peculiarities in the struc

ture of the sun-fish, as confirmatory of some of the principles

to which I have just alluded.

     The anatomy of this fish has been investigated by Dr.

IJacob, in a paper which have not had an opportunity of

consulting.  Cuvier and Meckel, in their Systems of Com
             "f-J
                 II

                                                                           a
parative Anatomy, have recorded its various peculiarities but                                  ;
as the observations of these anatomists have reference to its

general structure,  shall not have occasion to refer again to
their labours.

     The specimen had an opportunity of examining was the
very large individual lately procured for the Natural History

     * Read before the Wernerian Society, 12th December 1840.
        Dublin Philosophical Journal, November 1826, referred to by Mr.

Yarrell.
        Since this paper was written, have seen Leyden Inaugural Disserta

tion, May 1840, P. H. Wellenbergh, Observationcs Anatomiae de Orthra-
gorisco Mola. The author gives detailed account of the skeleton, intestinal
canal, and heart but throws no light on any of the subjects treated of by

me.
tf

                            ;

                          J.

                                                             a

                                   I

                                                                                            a

         OF THE SHORT SUN-FISH.  395

Museum of the University of Edinburgh.* It measured 5a
    it,
feet 8 inches from the snout to the tail, 3 feet 3 inches from
the tip of the dorsal to the tip of the anal fin, and weighed

489 pounds.
     On commencing to remove the skin, which was found to

be rather a difficult operation, in consequence of the total

Ideficiency of any structure resembling the dermis, found that

the coloured and tubercular layers of the integument were
attached to the external surface of a structure or tissue of a

very peculiar kind. This tissue extended in the form of a
layer, varying from one-fourth of an inch to 6 inches in

thickness, all over the body, head, and fins. It was thickest

along the median line of the back and belly, of medium thick
ness along the sides, and thinnest on the surface of the fins.
Large and thick masses of it enveloped the bones of the cra

nium, and enclosed the opercular laminae and branchiostegous
rays. The soft cartilaginous bones were imbedded in such a
manner in its substance, that they presented the appearance
of nuclei in and resembled the first traces of the skeleton

in the early embryo. The most distant or peripheral elements
of the skeleton, the fin-rays, and certain parts of the opercu
lar apparatus, were so much softer and more delicate than
the tissue in which they were imbedded, and so completely
deficient in any periosteal covering, that they could only be
discovered in the fresh state by their translucency.

     This peculiar tissue was separated from the muscular
substance in its neighbourhood by the ordinary loose
filamentous structure (cellular membrane). Its relation
to the skin was very peculiar. The tissue was inelastic,
tough, of dead white appearance resembling lard, gramilar
when torn, and presented very slight traces of vascularity,

     * This specimen was found in shallow water in the Firth of Forth at
Culross, lying sluggishly on one side, but making vigorous resistance when
attacked.

396 PECULIARITIES IN THE STRUCTURE

and these only in the neighbourhood of certain parts of the

skeleton. It discharged no oil, but on standing a quantity of

watery fluid exuded, and its bulk was considerably diminished.
When boiled, it dissolved into a gelatinous mass, which passed

in the form of a clear transparent liquid through flannel. A few

shreds of animal matter remained. This fluid on cooling became
a fine jelly, inodorous and tasteless. The greater part of this
tissue, then, is composed of or may be converted into gelatine *

      There was no trace of dermis or true skin, the coloured

lamina of the integument appearing to be merely the super
ficial layer of the peculiar cellular tissue, changed by the
deposition of colouring matter in the cells to adapt it to its
proper function. The peculiar tissue must either be looked
upon as the true skin itself, or more correctly it must be con
sidered as the primitive nucleated vesicular tissue of the

embryo fish, from which the pigmentary and tubercular layers
of the skin have already been developed, but from which the
conversion into true skin has not begun, and that of the peri

pheral bones has been arrested.f

   I* am indebted to Dr. Aitken for this account of the chemical constitution

of the tissue.

      [We have not reprinted the paragraph on the minute structure of this tissue,
as the examination was made with a doublet, and the description given has
since been superseded. We may refer to the more recent accounts of the
anatomy of this fish, from the dissection of specimens provided by Mr. Goodsir,
by Professors Cleland and Turner in the Natural History Review, 1862, and
to the description by Professor Harting of an Orlhragoriscus ozodura in the
 Verhandelingen der Koninklijke Akadcmie, Amsterdam, 1868. -- Eds.]

   t Meckel, Comparative Anatomy, French edition, tom v. p. 185. Accord

ing to the observations of Dr. Jacob, in the Dublin Philosophical Journal, the
cetacea have no dermis, except we consider, along with him, that the blubber
is the true skin distended with oil. The subcutaneous fat of the cetacea, how
ever, differs from the gelatinous vesicular tissue of the sun-fish in having no
primitive cells in its constitution, consisting of common fibrous tissue inclosing

in its areolae fat or oil-cells. It may, nevertheless, be considered as a tissue

in which some of the primitive cells have been developed into fibrous tissue,
while others have become filled with oil.

                    OF THE SHORT SUN-FISH.           397

IFrom -what have now stated, it is evident that the interest

to be attached to this tissue consists in its purely embryonic

character. The general appearance of the cells, their nuclei

and nucleoli, the uniformity of the tissue in every part of the

animal, and its chemical composition, all indicate this cha

racter ; and when taken in connection with the embryonic
state of the bony tissue, and the rudimentary condition of the

muscular system, forms a very interesting and important cha
racter in the species, and probably in the order of fishes to

which the one under consideration belongs.

    In a teleological point of view it is important, as it points

to the existence of certain laws which regulate the develop

ment of animal tissues--namely, first, In the organic series,

tissues as well as forms undergo progressive development;

secondly, This progressive development of the tissues may be
retarded, retaining their early embryonic condition in certain

beings in the series ; and, thirdly, Tissue is subordinate to form*
A sun-fish, in fact, as well as other fishes of its order, is as

highly developed, in so far as regards form, as any in the
class ; in certain of its tissues it is still in the condition of an

embryo.

    IA second peculiarity to which shall refer, is the form of

the caudal fin of the orthagorisciis. The naturalist is familiar

with its truncated shape, but the anatomist has not yet ascer

tained the cause of the peculiarity of this part of the skeleton.f

* For an exposition of this last law of organisation, see Dr. Martin Barry's

Memoir on Embryology, 2d series, Phil. Trans. 1839.

+ Meckel, Comparative Anatomy, French edition, tom. ii. p. 285. For a

drawing   of the tail, which  appears  to   have been made from a dried skeleton,
see Dr.  C. A. S. Schultze,            die  ersten Spuren des Knochensystems, und
                              " Ueber

die Entwickelung der Wirbelsaule, in den Thieren." -- Meckel's Archivs, 1818.

AVillenbergh's drawing, which he states was made from a dried skeleton, is

incorrect in the mode of junction of the pectoral girdle to the spine, but more

particularly in the mal-representation of the mode of termination of the spinal
column. He has mistaken the two or three last vertebrae for a fin-ray and

interspinous bone.

398    PECULIARITIES IN THE STRUCTURE

I found that the rays of the tail-fin, and their interspinous

bones, were crowded together in a direction from behind for

wards, and abutted against the superior spinous process of the
fourteenth and the inferior spinous process of the fifteenth

vertebra. The sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth vertebne

assumed the appearance, the two former combined, of an
interspinous bone, and the latter of a fin-ray, and could not

have been distinguished from these but by their direct con
tinuation with the bodies of the vertebrae, and their more

cylindrical and shorter form. The joint between the seven
teenth and eighteenth was in the line of the articulations of

the fin-rays and their interspinous bones, the ultimate vertebra
assuming the appearance and function of a fin-ray, the
penultimate and antepenultimate combined of an interspinous

bone.

     The interest involved in this form of skeleton consists in

the explanation it affords of the true nature of the so-called
last vertebra in the spinal column of fishes. Is that fan-shaped
bone a vertebra ? or is it a composite bone, containing the

elements of a number of vertebrae and of interspinous bones
Iof fin-rays ?
                have always been led to conclude that it is a

composite bone, and it required only such an arrangement of

skeleton as that now under consideration to afford a natural

analysis of the tail in this class of fishes, and to prove the

Icorrectness of the opinion to which have just alluded. In

many of the osseous fishes the last bone of the spine exhibits
traces of a central element, and in some families (Taenioides)
it appears to be prolonged far beyond the caudal fin, in the

Iform of a fine filament, but in none, as far as am aware, is it

arranged as in the present instance.
     The next peculiarity is in the muscular system. The sun-

fish exhibits not a trace of abdominal muscles.* The viscera

from the spine to the median line of the belly are inclosed by

       * Meckel, Comparative Anatomy, tom. v. p. 185.

                OF THE SHORT SUN-FISH.  399

 abdominal walls, consisting of peritoneum on the internal sur
 face, of skin on the external, and of a thick layer (4 or 6
 inches) of the peculiar tissue already described between
 them. This is a conformation exactly corresponding with
 the embryonic condition of all the vertebrata. The ab
 dominal muscles are among the last to be developed, in
 consequence, in a great measure, of the persistence of the
yolk-bag, and the evolution of the abdominal walls from the

dorsal towards the ventral aspect.

      The muscles of the spine, also, instead of stretching from

head to tail, are reduced to a very small size, and constitute
only a weak fan-shaped muscle on each side of the caudal fin.
These muscles consist of a small digitation for each of the

fin-rays, and appear to me rather to be analogous to the
caudal-fin muscles of other fishes than to the great lateral

muscles of the spine.
     The thick mass of muscle on each side of the sun-fish

consists of the muscles of the anal and dorsal fins ; very weak
in other fishes, but developed here in an extraordinary

manner --in an inverse ratio to the spinal muscles.* This
inversion of the muscular masses depends on the stunted con

dition of the vertebral column, and on the developed state (in
regard to form) of the peripheral elements of the skeleton,
and is an instance of the dependence of one organic system

on another. The morphological cause of the stunting of the

* Meckel, Comparative Anatomy, tom. v. p. 185, inclines to the opinion

that the dorsal portion of the lateral fleshy mass of the sun-fish is a composite

muscle, consisting of the anterior part of the usual lateral spinal muscles,

and of the muscles of the dorsal fin ; or that the latter had assumed the form

Iand position of the former.  have, however, satisfied myself that this mass,

although extending forwards to the head, is in fact the fin-muscle, and that

it consists of uninterrupted radiating bundles. The body of this fish, then,
contains only six muscles --two for each fin. It appears to swim by a scul

ling action of the dorsal and anal fins, the tail being a very inefficient organ

of locomotion.                2D
       VOL. I.

400 PECULIARITIES OF THE SHORT SUN-FISH.

column is still a problem,* and must be sought for, probably,
as a circumstance connected with the development. What
ever it may be, it must be considered as the means of adapt
ing the structure of the animal to some peculiarity in its
habits or economy.

   I* have not assumed the short spinal cord of the Orthagoriscus mola as

the cause of the stunting of the osseous column, as there are contradictory
facts which must be explained before we can connect the length of the latter
in the embryonic and adult series with the length of the former.

GYMNORHYNCHUS HORRIDUS.  401

VIII.-- ON GYMNORHYNCHUS HOEEIDUS, A NEW

   CESTOID ENTOZOON * (Plate VI. p. 445, vol. ii.)

The genus Gymnorhynchus was instituted by Eudolphi, for
the reception of a worm which infests the muscular tissue of
the Brama Baji, and which had been placed by Cuvier in the
genus Scolex. This worm, Gymnorhynchus reptans (Rudolphi),
Scolex gigas (Cuvier), is the only species which has been

hitherto observed. It is described by Eudolphi, Cuvier,

Blainville, and Milne Edwards, and figured by Bremser.
The characters of this genus, according to Eudolphi, are :--
Body depressed, continuous, very long, with a subglobose
cervical receptacle ; head provided with two bipartite
suckers, and emitting four naked retractile proboscides.
Bremser, however, represents in his atlas the four proboscides
not as naked, but as armed with recurved hooks, an arrange
ment which can only be recognised when they are fully
extended. Milne Edwards, in the last edition of Lamarck's

Invertebrate Animals, has defined the genus thus : -- Body

depressed, continuous, or without articulations, composed of
three parts ; one median, subglobose, prolonged backwards
into a very long tail, and forwards into a wrinkled neck ; the
cephalic bulging provided with two bipartite suckers and
four papillose tentacula.

     When dissecting the sun-fish, which formed the subject of

Ia former communication to the Society, found in the liver

a number of entozoa which presented a very curious appear-

     · Bead before the Wernerian Natural History Society, February 20, 1841 .
     [Dr. Cobbold, in his Treatise on the Entozoa places this parasite amongst
the Tetrarhynchidce, and names it Tetrarhynchus reptans. -- Eds.]

402                GYMNORHYNCHUS HORRIDUS,

ance. They were cylindrical, very much elongated, coiled

and twisted on the surface and in the substance of the

organ, one of their extremities subglobose, and situate

immediately under the peritoneum, the other tapering to a

fine point. They adhered to the parenchyma of the organ

by cellular tissue, and occasionally, where one coil lay over

the other, the two adhered. Their colour was cream-white, so

that they contrasted strongly with the deep brown of the liver.

     On removing one of them, and making a longitudinal

Iincision, found that it was not a worm, but an elongated

sac or cyst containing a worm, which, when withdrawn,

was found to be alive, although the fish had been a week

dead. When placed in lukewarm water, it pushed out its

head and neck from the cervical receptacle, protruded the
four-armed tentacula, and continued in lively motion for

some hours. The globose receptacle, with the head and
neck of the worm, were lodged in the bulbous extremity of
the cyst, but the tail did not extend into the attenuated

extremity.
I had no difficulty in referring the worm to the genus
IGymnorhynchus.
                   may remark, however, that it presented

one character not included in the definition of this genus.

It exhibited, when gently compressed between two plates

of glass, distant, but distinct articulations.  From an

examination of Bremser's drawing, and a consideration of

Ithe relations of the genus, strongly suspect that the old

species is also articulated, and that such a conformation

must be considered as a character of this cestoid genus.
My specimens present a character which appears to be

sufficient to distinguish them as a new species. They have a
separate circle of large recurved hooks on the tentacula, an
arrangement not to be seen in Bremser's figure of Gymno

rhynchus reptans.

The cyst enclosing the worm is double. The outer coat is

                   A NEW CESTOID ENTOZOON.         403

rough, flocculent, and adherent to the parenchyma of the liver.

The anterior extremity is dilated, and in all the specimens

was situate immediately under the peritoneum. The poste

rior extremity, again, was so attenuated that it was traced with

great difficulty, as it lay coiled about in all directions through

the substance of the organ. Within the outer coat another
cyst is situate closely investing the worm ; it is smooth, trans

parent, thin, and elastic, and does not adhere to the outer.

The worm is visible through this second tunic, and lies with

its anterior bulbous extremity packed up in the vesicular por

tion of the cyst. When one of the animals was released from
its prison, and placed in water, it dilated its anterior extremity,

and projected its head and neck. The head and neck,

when withdrawn, are lodged in the cervical receptacle. There

is no particular muscular arrangement to effect this. The

tissue of this, as well as of the rest of the animal, was the

primitive granular tissue lately described by Mr. Forbes.

The four-armed tentacula are retracted by four distinct

muscles, all of which consist of granular tissue. The arrange

ment of this part of the animal corresponds exactly with the

same part in the Bothriocephalic eorollatus as described by

Leblond in the Annates des Sciences Naturclles, 1836. The

motion of these parts in both animals is similar, and the tissue
is identical with that denominated by Leblond " Sarcode," or
Ielementary texture, the granular tissue to which
                                                   have

already referred.

The body, when gently compressed between two plates of

glass, exhibited transparent transverse articulations at dis

tances of one-third to half-an-inch. The most careful ex

amination, however, revealed no nutritive or generative organs

in any of the segments. The dilated cervical receptacle, into

which the head is retracted, did not appear to communicate

with any arrangement of tubes or cavities in the elongated body.

The most interesting circumstance in the history of this

404  GYMNORHYNCHUS HORRIDUS.

entozoon, is the manner in which it is enclosed in a firm and

close cyst. It appears to me that this cyst is not altogether

the result of irritation of the surrounding tissues. The outer
coat of the cyst may be of this nature, but it is not so easy

to conceive the inner tunic to be due to the same cause. Pro
fessor Owen, in his memoir on the Trichina spiralis--the
entozoon of the human muscles --holds that the cyst of that
animal, although apparently consisting of two tunics, is the
result of irritation. Dr. Knox, again, considers it to be a part
of the animal, although the latter lies free in the cavity. This

latter opinion is inadmissible, according to the usual con
ception of an individual animal. Might we not conceive the
cysts to be essential parts of all such entozoa, inasmuch as

they are never absent? and may we not suppose them to be

parts of the original ovum within which the animal was
formed, and in which it passes the term of its existence?

IWithout having any facts to adduce in proof, hazard this

supposition as a hint for future research ; and as it is not at
variance with any of the known conditions of animal existence,
it is worth consideration in a fresh investigation of the subject.

STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETIiEA.  405

      IX.-- ON THE STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY
                             OF TETHEA*

I AM indebted to Mr. Guerin, one of my pupils, for the

specimens of the undescribed Tethea, to the structure and

Ieconomy of which am about to direct the attention of the

Society. He procured them, along with many other speci
mens, by dredging in deep water on the south-west coast of
Spitzbergen. They have been carefully preserved in alcohol,
and are in as favourable a state for examination as their
delicate texture will permit.

      These specimens present the globose or sub-globose form
peculiar to the group ; but two of them contract towards their
attachments, so as to resemble inverted cones, with spher

oidal bases (Tythea turbinato-capita --Lamarck).

     The largest spherical specimen measured 4 inches in dia
meter ; the smallest 2 J. The turbinated specimens are 3 and
2\ inches long by 2\ and 2 broad.

     Their colour is dark-grey when removed from the alcohol ;
but when in that fluid light lemon-yellow, on the dense,
fleshy, and more recently-formed parts of their surfaces, and
grey or dark grey where the downward and projecting spicula
abound, and where mud and debris, in greater or less
abundance, lodge in the crevices.

      The debris, or pellicle apparently exfoliated from the
organism, appears to be entangled among the projecting
spicula on various parts of the surface in such a manner as to

           * Read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, 7th March 1853.

406 STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETHEA.

enclose polygonal spaces, generally hexagonal when complete
and well marked.

      On the dark-grey portions of the surface, where the pro
jecting spicula are very numerous, the character of the surface
itself cannot be recognised ; on the lemon-yellow fleshy portions,
from which the naked spicula do not project, numerous darkish
spots are visible, of a polygonal form, and separated by
light yellow bands arranged in a sort of network. These
spots, under a lens of 1 or 2 inches' focus, appear to be per
forated, and have a general resemblance to the pores of the
afferent orifices of the denser sorts of sponges.

      On various parts of the surface, but more abundantly
towards the attached pole of the mass, there are a variable
number of serpentine semi-cylindrical grooves, elongated,
ramified, and continuous, or short and disconnected. The
floor and walls of these grooves consist of a membrane per
forated throughout by angular or rounded orifices, so as to
resemble an irregular network The grooves may be here
and there observed to pass into deep fissures or vents in the
substance of the organism. These fissures tend towards the
centre in the direction of its long spicula, the bundles of
which may be observed passing into the interior on the walls

of the fissures. At the junction of the grooves and fissures
the perforated membranes of the former terminate in bands

and lamellae, suggesting the idea that the grooves are former
fissures closed in by the growth of the perforated membrane.

At these junctions also it may be observed that the recent
fissures are actually continuous with spacious cavities under
the perforated membrane, resembling fissures with their

deeper angular portions filled up and rounded off by new
sponge-texture, and traversed in their wider parts by bands
and lamellse attached to their walls and the deep surface of
the perforated membrane for the support of the latter.

     The perforated grooves are invariably situated on parts of

          STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETHEA.                    407

the surface from which the spicula project in greatest abund
ance. The spicula are arranged in great numbers along the
margins of the grooves, projecting obliquely over them from
their opposite margins, like palisades along the faces of a
ditch. The fissures, unlike the grooves, are situated in the
fleshy and apparently more recently-formed portions of the

surface.

The character of the perforated grooves associates them

with the oscula or feculent orifices of the typical sponges.

On tearing a specimen through the centre, the arrange

ment of the nuclear radiating structure and veins peculiar

to Tethea may be observed.  The central nucleus is not
so apparent --fleshy substance, with small areolar spaces,

predominating over the spicular structure. The radiating
masses of fleshy substance, with their bundles of spicula, are
well marked. Numerous canals converge between the radiat

ing columns towards the centre, gradually degenerating, by
frequent anastomoses, into freely communicating areolar
spaces. Other canals of larger size, and lined by a semi-

opaque membrane, collect obliquely across the radiating

masses towards the perforated grooves on the surface.

     The peripheral rind peculiar to Tethea does not exist over

the whole surface of these specimens. It is also comparatively

thinner than in T. cranium. Of a grey gelatinous aspect, it

is thickest on the lemon-yellow fleshy portions ; thinner, and

apparently not so solid, on the portions of surface from which

the spicula begin to project. It has disappeared entirely

where the spicula are most numerous and projecting. The
canals of the intermediate or radiating masses become much

smaller and more numerous as they pass through the rind, on
the surface of which they open in the dark spots.

                 Particular Description.
The Skeleton. -- The skeleton of this sponge, like those of

408  STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETHEA.

 the group to which it belongs, consists of silicious spicula

 bound together by horny matter.
      The spicula of which the skeleton is essentially composed

 present the following forms :--
      1. Tubular, elongated, somewhat flattened, pointed, or

 truncated spicula, slightly bent or twisted, with an average
 length of one line and a half, but of various smaller sizes.

     2. A similar form, but terminated at one end in a spheri

 cal head, and very rare.
      3. Tubular, elongated, cylindrical, straight spicula, one line

 and a half in average length.

     4 Very slender spicula, of uniform thickness, short, with

 both ends bent towards one another.

      5. Similar spicula, with their ends bent in opposite direc

tions ; sigmoidal.
      6. Tri-radiate spicula in two forms.

       7. Six-radiate spicula.

       8. Stellate spicula.
      Viewed as a whole, the skeleton may be divided into a

central and a peripheral portion.
      The central portion may be considered as consisting of two

parts, as it is arranged in the nucleus, and among the radiat

ing masses.
     The nuclear portion consists of single spicula, and bundles

of spicula of the 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th orders, bound together
and arranged so as to form a mesh-work to support the walls
of the areolar water-passages of the nucleus.

     The radiating part consists of thick trunk-like bundles of
the same kinds of spicula, springing from, and tied to, the
nuclear part. These trunks ramify as they radiate, so as to
be resolved at or near the surface into numerous nearly uni
form bundles, which in the recently-formed rind pass through
between the six-radiate spicula, and elevate, to a greater or
less extent, the free surface ; but when the rind is of older

STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETHEA.  409

date, or has disappeared, they project more or less from the
surface, the individual spicula becoming denuded, and diverg
ing in various or definite directions from one another.

     The peripheral portion of the skeleton is peculiar to the

rind, and only exists therefore on the lemon-yellow and light-
grey portions of the surface.

    It consists essentially of the tri-radiate and six-radi

ate spicula ; but intermingled with the extremities of the
terminal bundles of the central part of the skeleton, the
spicula of which pass into the rind towards or through its

free surface.

     The shafts of the tri-radiate spicula pass through the rind,
deep into the radiating masses of the sponge, packed into the
centre or attached to the surface of certain of the terminal
bundles of the central portion of the skeleton ; from the
spicula of which they may be distinguished by their tapering
form, peculiar twist, and greater opacity.

     The radiating branches of the tri-radiate or six-radiate
spicula are imbedded in the substance or on the surface of
the recently-formed rind. But in rind of older date many

of them project, as if their shafts had been pushed outwards,

so that their radiations are suspended horizontally at a
greater or less distance from the free surface of the sponge.

     When a section of the rind is made towards the centre of
the sponge, the radiations of these spicula may be observed
in profile, arranged parallel to and at various distances from

the free surface.

      When the free surface of a recently-formed portion of the
rind is strongly illuminated by a condenser, and examined by
a 1-inch or 2-inch objective, the radiating branches of the
superimposed spicula may be brought into view in succession,
from the free surface inwards, by slowly altering the focus of

the instrument.

   I have endeavoured to ascertain whether the six-radiate

410  STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETHEA.

spicula are arranged symmetrically so as to circumscribe the pe
Iculiar polygonal figures which must result therefrom.
                                                        have,

however, hitherto failed, either because the eye is unable in

the maze of crossing spicular branches to isolate the pattern ;

Ior because they have been disarranged, as am inclined to be

lieve they are, first, in consequence of the varied development

of the intervening soft textures, the result of varied conditions ;

and secondly, in consequence of the oblique course of the

water-passages which they support.

    In addition to this arrangement of radiated spicula, the

peripheral portion of the skeleton consists of the divergent

naked, or imbedded spicula of the terminal branches of the

central portion. The greater number of these appear to me

to pass on or through the spaces inclosed by the rectangular

secondary branches of the six-radiate spicula ; and from this

circumstance, as well as from the fact of the projecting but

still imbedded spicula forming conical tubercles or thin spaces,

I am inclined to consider these spaces (which are also, from

the form of the six-radiate spicula, somewhat elevated) as the
parts of the surface set aside for the cutaneous attachments

of the central portion of the skeleton, and as homologous in

this new form of Tethea to the conical elevations of T. cranium,

or hemispherical bulgings of T. lyncurium.

   I have already stated the general characters of the different
Ikinds of spicula which have observed in this sponge, but

the very interesting nature of these silicious structures de

mands a few additional remarks.

   IInto the consideration of their chemical composition

shall not at present attempt to enter.

   I am rather anxious to direct attention to their exact con

figuration and to their mode of development.
      From the comparatively large size of the elongated spicula

Iof this species of Tethea, am strongly confirmed in an
Iopinion which have long entertained from the examination

STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETEEA.             411

of other silicious sponges, that these structures possess precise
Igeometrical forms.
                     am not prepared at present to enter into

details, for the subject is one beset with many difficulties,

Ibut may state generally -- 1st, That all silicious spicula, with

continuous margins and pointed, rounded, or apparently trun

cated extremities, are, in fact, oblong ellipsoids or ovoids,
more or less compressed or not in the direction of their con

jugate diameter, and more or less spirally twisted or not

around their transverse diameters ; 2d, That all the forms of

unbranched spicula are reducible to ellipsoids or ovoids, or to
linear combinations of these; and, 3d, That the radiations of the
branched spicula are not only portions of ellipsoids or ovoids,
but are arranged in reference to one another at definite

angles.

   INo one, as far as am aware, has hitherto investigated

the mode of development of the silicious spicula. Dr. Grant
in Halichondria, and Mr. Carter in Spongilla, have observed
them forming in the embryo sponge, but the combination of
structures by which a spiculum is laid down has not been

noted. Dr. Grant, indeed, appears to consider the spicula

crystalline productions ; but the general existence of a cavity
in their interior, the animal matter which they contain, the

peculiar forms which it is generally admitted they present--

all tend to prove their organic origin, and clearly to distinguish

them from raphides or ordinary crystals.
     As the formation of bone, shell, tooth, hair, and other cal

careous and horny structures, has now been ascertained to

depend on the deposit of calcareous salts and horny matter in

nucleated particles peculiarly figured and arranged, it becomes

important to determine whether the silicious spicula of the
Isponges are developed in a similar manner.
                                             have not been

able hitherto to procure any observations bearing directly on

this question, but the general considerations and structural

arrangements appear to me to indicate clearly a law of de

412 STRUCTURE AKD ECONOMY OF TETHEA.

Ivelopment of these bodies, which would thus state pro

visionally :--A spiculum is formed by a series of sponge-par
ticles, so arranged in a column or system as, by the sUicification

of more or less of their contiguous surfaces and substance, to form

a continuous rod.

    Mode of union of differentparts of Skeleton. -- Horny matter

of the same nature as the peculiar substance which forms the

entire skeleton of the keratose sponges, but more delicate and

transparent, binds together the spicula, and connects the

fasciculi of the central portion of the framework.

       The diminished quantity and greater delicacy of the
horny connecting matter in the Tethea now under consider
ation, as well as in Tethea cranium, appears to me to depend
on the greater contractility of the soft texture of these sponges.

      Towards the periphery of the intermediate or radiating

masses, the long spicula are bound together by numerous

fibre-cells, which may be contractile, but from their thin and

Idry aspect, am inclined to consider them as ligamentous,

and consequently better adapted to the movements of the

various parts of this sponge than the elastic but more rigid

horny texture.

The minute curved spicula, which are not very numerous,

are always to be found arranged across the long spicula ; and
as their length nearly corresponds to the breadth of a pair of

Ithe latter, and as have not unfrequently seen them hooked
Ion in this position, am inclined to consider them as connec

tive structures.

   IContractility and contractile textures of Tethea. -- have

not had a sufficiently favourable opportunity of observing the
Icontractility of Tethea.
                           have, however, no doubt whatever,

from the recorded observations of Donati and of Audouin, and

Milne Edwards, that these sponges are capable of slow but

decided contractions and relaxations. In the outer part of

the recently-formed rind the fleshy substance consists of a

STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETHEA.                       413

slightly granular but transparent substance, in which are

embedded numerous nucleated cells. These cells are gene
rally acutely spindle-shaped, or split at one or both extremi
ties. They are more abundant around the water-orifices, and
are there intermixed with many stellate and bi-stellate silicious

spicula.
     The inner part of the rind is denser, and consists almost

entirely of nucleated fibre-cells, which run more or less trans
versely, or across the axes of the spicula.

      Similar fibre-cells are met with abundantly in the fleshy
wall s of the larger water-canals of their intermediate substance,
along with stellate and bistcllate silicious spicula.

The anatomical characters, arrangement, and relations of

the fibre-cells of Tethea, taken along with the acknowledged

contractility of the group, indicate the functions of the fibre-

cells in the economy of these sponges. Their peculiar aspect,

elongated form, transverse relation to the spicula, and grouping

Iaround the water-canals, appear to me to indicate very clearly
their muscular character.  do not, however, conceive them

Ito be the only contractile structures in the mass of the sponge ;

for am inclined to believe that the slightly granular gelati
nous matrix, in which they and the other structures are em
bedded, is also capable of a slow but decided change of form,
like the mass of an amseba, or the peculiar texture with
which observers are now familiar in so many of the lower
organisms, and which has been termed by Dujardin, Sarcode.

     The more energetic contractility of the fibre-cells would

appear to be concentrated on the spicula and skeleton ; the

movements of the gelatinous matrix probably regulate the

diameter and capacity of the water-canals.             or

    Pores, Water -Passages, and Oscula. -- The pores,

afferent water-orifices, are arranged in groups of three, each

group in relation to a six-radiate spiculum, so that a pore is

situated in each angle between the three primary branches of

414  STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETHEA.

the spiculum. As a result of this arrangement, it may be

observed that when two or more of the six-radiate spicula are

symmetrically arranged, each elongated octagonal mesh in
cludes two pores --one at each of its extremities, and belong

ing to distinct groups or systems. Dr. Johnston has denied
Ithe existence of pores and oscula in Tethea cranium.
                                                       have,

however, satisfied myself that pores of that sponge are situ

ated in the furrows between the conical papillas. Dr.

Johnston's observations were made on a specimen preserved

in spirits, with which I supplied him ; my own observations

were made on similar specimens. Neither Prof. Ed. Forbes

Inor could detect with the naked eye, or by means of lenses

of low power, either pores or oscula in the living sponge
examined in sea-water. But as the specimens had been for

some hours out of the water, and were not examined after a

Isufficiently long interval of undisturbed repose, am inclined

to attribute our failure in detecting the contractility of

Tethea, and also the pores and oscula, as had previously been

done by Audouin and Milne Edwards, to the continued con

traction produced by the disturbance of the animal.

    I have not been able to detect in T. cranium any trace

of oscula ; but if an inference may be drawn from their

Isituation in other sponges, would be inclined to look for

them on the conical spicular elevations of the rind.

   I have already referred the somewhat elevated spaces,

bounded by the rectangular extremities of the six-radiate

spicula, or the assumed corresponding dodecahedral spaces

of this new species, to the conical spicular elevations of T.

Icranium ; am therefore inclined to believe, that if oscula

exist at all in the form now under consideration, they must

be sought for in these spaces.

    It is interesting, in connection with this question, to

observe that the recent rents or fissures in the rind are

generally margined by the denuded quadrangular extremities

             STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETHEA.  415

of the six-radiate spicula, while the pores in their semi-

octagonal recesses still remain entire ; so that these fissures,

and perforated grooves which result from them, may be con
sidered as a linear arrangement of the spaces in which it

may be inferred the oscula ought to develop. As an addi
Itional evidence in favour of the opinion
                                           have already

stated in reference to the position which the oscula of Tethea

Iought to occupy, may refer to Mr. Huxley's recent account

of an Australian species, in which he found irregular aper

tures or prominent tubercles on the surface. Now these

could not have been pores, which he does not appear to have

looked for. They must have been oscula ; and their relations,
as far as they are given, are in accordance with this sup

position.

   I have arrived at the conclusion, therefore, that there are

afferent orifices or pores in T. cranium,, and in the Tethea
now under consideration, but efferent orifices or oscula exist

in neither.   How the water and animal debris escape from
T. cranium
an opinion   I Ihave not yet determined ; but if may hazard

             as to their mode of exit, it is that they pass off

through the older and more open portions of the rind, where

the central or radiating spicula are nearly laid bare, or have

begun to project. Although the rind is continuous in T.

Icranium, it is never, as far as am aware, uniform : the

more recent portions are smooth, without projecting spicula
or conical elevations ; the portions of medium age present

the characteristic conical projections ; the more ancient

portions are comparatively open and porous, the projections

have disappeared, and the radiating spicula project. These

more ancient portions of the rind of T. cranium correspond to

the rindless portions of the surface of the Spitzbergen species.
IFrom these facts and considerations
                                      have come to the

conclusion, provisionally-- 1st, That neither T. cranium nor

lthe Spitzbergen T. possesses efferent orifices properly so called ;
VOL.         2E

416  STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETHEA.

2d, That in T. cranium the water and debris find an exit
through the more ancient portions of the rind ; 3d, That in
the Spitzbergen species the water and debris pass off through
the rents in the more recent portions of the surface --through
the open parts of the surface where the rind is thin or

deficient, but principally through the perforated grooves,

which are in fact partially repaired fissures.
     The pores of the Spitzbergen Tethea are the orifices of

tubes which pass through the rind.
     From what has been already stated, it will be perceived

that these tubes are arranged in groups of three ; the three
tubes of each group being set around the shaft of the corre
sponding six-radiate spiculum, which is in fact the axis or
skeleton of the group.

    It must be recollected, however, that the branched heads

of the six-radiate spicula are arranged at various depths in the
rind ; and as they always appear to embrace a water-tube in

each of their primary angles, and are, besides, not placed per
pendicularly under one another, so the tubes which proceed
inwards from the primary angles of the superficial to the

primary angles of the deeper spicula must be twisted or bent.

   IWhether the water-tubes of the rind ramify have not

been able hitherto to determine, but it appears to me probable

that they do, because the six-radiate spicula are more numer
ous towards the surface of the rind than at its central aspect,
and therefore the groups of water-tubes must be proportionally

Iincreased in number towards the periphery.

       have already stated that it appears to me highly pro
bable that in the younger, and therefore more symmetrical
form of this sponge, the six-radiate spicula of its rind are
arranged in systems so as to include a dodecahedron in six

octagons, that each octagon encloses a pair of pores, while the
dodecahedron includes in its own share the terminal bundles

of the intermediate portion of the skeleton, and is at the same

STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETIIEA.      417

time the typical position of the oscule or feculent orifice of the

system of sponge-groups by which it is surrounded. It there

fore becomes a question, since the superficial spicula of the

rind are not arranged perpendicularly above the deeper, what
Iare their relations in this respect.
                                       have not succeeded in

determining any relation ; but from what may be observed in

Ithe more symmetrically developed T. cranium, am inclined

to suspect that the successive strata of systems of spicula are

so arranged that lines passing through their centres would be

spiral.
     The comparatively minute canals of the rind become

larger as they pass into the intermediate or radiating masses
of the sponge. They no longer retain the same fixed relations
to the skeleton, but retiring from the immediate vicinity of

the spicular fasciculi they pass inwards, frequently anastomos
ing in the interior of the intermediate spongy mass. The

anastomoses become more frequent as the tubes approach the
nucleus, in which they degenerate into areolae.

     The afferent water-canals are at first not to be distin

guished from the more or less frequently anastomosing efferent
tubes ; but as they collect together into larger branches, and

converge outwards and downwards to the equatorial region,
and the attached polar region of the sponge, they become so

much larger, and their aspect is so peculiar, that they at once
catch the eye. Their walls are surrounded by, or rather
consist of, a semi-transparent matter, consisting of the peculiar
granular sarcode, intermixed with fibre-cells and stellate
spicula already described. These efferent tubes all terminate
at right angles or obliquely, mediately or immediately in the

fissures or perforated grooves on the surface, and the abundant
gelatinous material of their walls is continuous with the

Imatter of the same kind which have already described as

filling up and repairing the recent fissures and reducing them

to their perforated grooved form. The fissures result from the

418        STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETHEA.

internal development of the mass ; so that the efferent chan
nels of this sponge are in fact mechanical openings -- vents
produced by its internal growth.

   I have already described the textures which enter into

the structure of the rind, and which line its water-tubes.

   I have also stated that the same textures surround the

afferent canals.

     The perforated membrane of the grooves contains more abun

dant fibrous texture, and a greater number of stellate spicula.

     The walls of the afferent water-canals in the intermediate

masses are lined by minute bodies, which may be denominated

sponge-particles. My specimens having been preserved in

Ialcohol, have been unable to detect on the sponge-particles

the cilia which they present in the living Grantia* and

for the discovery of which we are indebted to Dr. Dobie and
IMr. Bowerbank.
                  have no doubt, however, that these par

ticles are covered with cilia, and that the currents through the

canals are produced by their agency. The particles present
the usual nucleus, cellular contents, and the clear space or

contractile vesicle. They are from the 2000th to the 3000th.

of an inch in diameter.

     In the intermediate masses of this sponge there are also

to be met with very abundantly, but irregularly distributed,

minute cellules about the 4000th of an inch diameter, many

of them with tails or processes like spermatozoa, and occa

sionally exactly resembling spermatozoa. From a preserved
Ispecimen
           cannot pretend to determine whether these

minute bodies are the earlier forms of other sponge-particles,

or whether they are actually spermatozoa.
     Ova are also very abundant in the intermediate masses.

When minute the ova exhibit a nucleus or germinal vesicle,
but when larger they present the appearance of mulberries,
or minute spherical botryoidal masses.

* See Goodsir's Annals of Anatomy and Physiology, pp. 127-129. -- Eds.

STRUCTURE AND ECONOMY OF TETUEA.  419

     Many of these masses appear to me to break up into
the constituent elements of the intermediate masses of the
sponge, while others near the denuded portion of the surface
are arranged and developed into new rind. Some of these
ova-like bodies have a distinct covering of silicious granules,

and if we are to be guided by the analogy of Spongilla, they

must be the sources of the ciliated or locomotive particles

which, ejected from the parent, move off to become fixed and

developed as independent individuals.

420  UNDESCRIBED FORM OF GASTEROPOD MOLLUSK.

X.-- ON AN UNDESCRIBED FORM OF GASTEKOPOD
      MOLLUSK FROM THE FIRTH OF FORTH*

After the severe storm which occurred in February 1855, two

of my pupils, Messrs. Cleland and Bryden, applied to me for
assistance in determining a number of animals which they
had picked up on the beach opposite the Black Rocks at
Leith. The collection, with one exception, consisted of or
dinary forms. The peculiar specimen was a Gasteropod
Mollusk, dead, apparently bleached, somewhat rubbed, and
presenting the appearance of an Eolis deprived of its plumes.
The novelty of its form was, however, specially evinced by
the remarkable characters of .its branchiae, which consisted
of a number of closely-arranged longitudinal laminae, depend
ing from the roofs of true crypts, situated one on each side of
the body near the head, and opening out in the lateral grooves
under the margins of the mantle.

      The specimen was at once handed over to me, and on
examination proved to be a new form closely allied to Di-
phyllidia.

      The animal is white, inclining to pale citron, except the
branchiae, which are light brownish yellow.

      The body is elongated, ovate, gradually acuminated pos
teriorly, and somewhat depressed. Its extreme length is
inch ; its greatest breadth' across the mantle f-inch.

      The mantle is kite-shaped, its posterior angle reaching the

      * This paper was written in the year 1855, and intended to be read before
the Wernerian Society, which it was at that time proposed to reconstitute, but
us this idea was not carried out the paper was never published. -- Eds.

          UNDESCRIBED FORM OF GASTEROPOD MOLLUSK.  421

extremity of the body, and almost fusing into the corre
sponding apex of the foot. On its surface, at its lateral angles,
are two circular convexities, which nearly meet in a depression

at the middle line. These convexities are the vaulted roofs

of the crypts which contain the branchiae, the deeper colour
of which appears through them. Behind the depression be
tween the branchial convexities is a longitudinal elevation

which tapers backward, is bounded laterally by two slight

furrows, and is produced by the subjacent visceral mass.

Beyond    these furrows the margins project over the lateral
grooves.    The anterior margin of the mantle is convex, pre
senting
          at its centre a concave incision, where it is also

elevated or tilted backwards. Behind the concave incision,

and exactly repeating its curvature, a number of opaque,

slightly-raised ridges extend across the mantle at equal dis

tances, but becoming fainter, are lost as they reach the

branchial elevations. Ten or twelve faint opaque white

stripes, which become narrower and fainter as they pass back,

diverge from the concave incision along the mantle over its

elevations, and are lost about the middle of the back. These

stripes are more distinct towards the middle line than at the

margins of the mantle.

    The foot corresponds in form with the body. It is some
what narrower than the mantle ; with which it is nearly in

contact posteriorly, where the apices of the two structures,

appear to run into one another. It is transversely rugose ;
but smooth along both margins. A mesial furrow extends
along its posterior third. In front its margin is concave, and

in contact with the oval disk.

     The mantle and foot, but particularly the former, are con-
                                                            i

siderably broader than the body ; so as to include between
their projecting margins on each side a groove, the bottom of
which is formed by the side of the body. The grooves are
narrow behind, where they are terminated by the fusion of the

422 UNDESCRIBED FORM OF GASTEROPOD MOLLUSK.

apices of the foot and mantle. They become wider as they
extend forwards ; and at the lateral angles of the mantle

each divides into a notch-like furrow which separates the
anterior lateral part of the pedal margin from the lower

margin of the head-veil ; and into a deeper furrow which
extends across the back to become continuous with the cor

responding furrow of the opposite side, and to separate the

mantle and head-veil from one another.

     The head presents in front and below an oval disk,
which consists of a number of concentric fleshy folds, in

contact posteriorly with the anterior marginal concavity of the

foot. When the margins of a longitudinal slit, which is

situated in the centre of the disk, are separated by a pair of
needles, the dentated edges of a pair of hard dark-coloured

horny lateral jaws are seen and felt. The oval disk is

evidently the retracted condition of a short proboscis. The

head-veil is crescentic.  Its anterior convex margin is

slightly fused at the middle line in front with the superior

margin of the oval disk ; while its posterior concave margin is

elevated, opaque, and separated from the front of the mantle

by the nuchal furrow. Its horns are directed downwards

and backwards, and separate the divisions of the lateral

grooves, as already stated. From each horn a ridge extends
to its anterior margin. In texture and colour the head-veil

resembles the mantle.

From the bottom of the nuchal furrow in front of the con

cave incision of the mantle, a semicircular fold rises so as to

include a transversely oval pit. The middle of the fold is

elevated into a lamina, which rises obliquely in front of the
pit. In the pit itself are two rounded papillae, and on the

fore and outer part of each is a minute eye.

    At the anterior extremity and widest part of each lateral

groove, and immediately under each lateral angle of the

mantle, there is a cavity which contains branchiae. The cavity

UNDESCR1BED FORM OF GASTEROPOD MOLLUSK.  423

opens by a wide orifice under the overhanging lateral angles
of this mantle, which are slightly curled up or elevated. The

cavities nearly meet from the opposite sides, and appear to be
the real terminations in front of the lateral grooves. The
bronchiae consist of from twelve to fifteen laminae, closely set
together, extending from before backwards, longer internally
in the cavity than externally, where they are small, short, and
indistinct. The larger laminae at the inner part of the series
are attached to the vault of the cavity ; the shorter, less dis
tinct plates depend from the under surface of the projecting
margin of the mantle. The laminae are of a light brownish-
yellow colour, and appear each to consist of a double mem
brane with a quarter lens ; and under a favourable light, a
number of faint opaque lines, each of which presents a few
dots, apparently orifices, may be observed to be arranged on
the under surface of the anterior half of the projecting margin
of the mantle. Each line runs obliquely from behind forwards

and inwards.

      The common genital vestibule is situated in the right

lateral groove, immediately behind and below the bronchial

chamber. It is circular. From its anterior compartment an

elongated male organ projects. Its posterior compartment
presents the opening of the female organs.

     The anus is situated on the apex of a cylindrical papilla,
at the middle of the right lateral groove.

      This animal is evidently an infero-branchiate mollusk.

In the position of the anus, and in its characters generally,

it closely resembles Diphyllidia, but differs from that genus
in the arrangement of the branchiae, which, instead of con
sisting of a series of oblique laminae arranged along the
two posterior thirds of each lateral groove, are in the form
of transverse series of longitudinal laminae depending from
the roofs of the two lateral cavities. So very marked was

the apparent difference between my specimen and the

424     UNDESCRIBED FORM OF GASTEROPOD MOLLUSK.

Idescriptions and drawings of Diphyllidia, that had no
Ihesitation in referring it to a new genus, which had pro

posed to denominate Cryptophylloma. Professors Jameson,

Allman, and Huxley all agreed with me as to the novelty of

Ithe form. Within the last few days, however, have again

carefully examined the specimen, and have discovered the

Ioblique dotted markings under the margin of the cloak.
        am now inclined to believe that it is merely a new

Ispecies of Diphyllidia, with its posterior branchial laminae
removed or torn off.  am the more inclined to believe

that this is the case from the examination of Mr. Albany

Hancock's drawing in the first volume of Forbes and

Hanky's British Mollusca, and from a reperusal of Otto's

description (D. liniata) in the tenth volume of the Nova Acta,
Otto states that " the branchiae, where they terminate under

the curved anterior border of the mantle, become suddenly

broader, and form a process which passes into a hollow in the

form of a blind sac, so that the right and left branchiae

nearly touch one another between the body and the mantle."
If my supposition be correct, the existing descriptions of the
Ibranchiae of Diphyllidia are insufficient.
                                             have no doubt

that each portion of the branchial laminae in that genus will

be found to depend obliquely from behind forwards and

inwards from the lower surface of the free margin of the

mantle, and that the anterior ones become crowded together

as a transverse series of large longitudinal plates in the pit or
crypt in which the lateral groove terminates under the

Ilateral angle of the mantle. As have only discovered the

markings under the margin of the mantle within the last few
Idays,
        have not yet had time to communicate with Mr.
IHancock. At a subsequent meeting of the Society hope

to be enabled to submit the result of additional inquiries

regarding this form of mollusk.

    NATURAL HISTORY AND ANATOMY OF THALASSEMA, ETC. 425

XL-- ON THE NATUEAL HISTOEY AND ANATOMY
       OF THALASSEMA AND ECHIURUS. By Edward
        Forbes and John Goodsir *

Among the Radiata of the British seas are two animals which,
in their general appearance, rather resemble Annelides than
Echinodermata, to which latter class they structurally belong.
These are the Thalassema neptuni and Echiurus vulgaris,
members of the family Thalassemaeem in the order Sipunculidce,
a zoological and anatomical description of which species we
have to-day the pleasure of submitting to the Wernerian
Society.

     The family Thalassemacece includes a group of vermigrade
Echinodermata, characterised by having cylindrical worm
like bodies terminated at one extremity by a mouth, which is
placed at the end of a short proboscis, to which is appended a
remarkable sheath-like appendage, and at the other by an anus
with no external appendages.

     These characters distinguish it from the other families of
its order ; from the Sipunculacece, which have a tentaculated
trunk, no sheath-like appendage, and an anus placed at its
base ; and from the Priapulacece, which have a trunk without
tentacula, no oral appendage, and the anus at the posterior
extremity at the end of a long filamentous caudal appendage,
which has been regarded by some naturalists as a respiratory

organ.
      The genera Thalassema,Echiurus, Bonnellia, and Sternaspis,

     * Read before the Wernerian Natural History Society on 23d January

1841.

426  NATURAL HISTORY AND ANATOMY OF

 constitute the family. The first has a simple oral appendage

 and no corneous bristles surrounding its anus ; the second
 has also a simple oral appendage, but has circles of corneous
 bristles or setae surrounding the posterior extremity ; the third
is distinguished by its forked oral appendage ; and the fourth

 is marked out from its allies by the possession of a corneous

 disk, surrounded by setae placed near its anterior extremity.
But few species are included in these four genera. Of Tha-
lassema but one is known. Of Echiurus two have been

described, the one a native of our own seas, the other of the
North Pacific. Of Bonncllia two species are recorded, both

inhabitants of .the Mediterranean, as is also the only known
species of Sternaspis.

      The Thalassema neptuni is a native of the coast of Corn
wall and Devon, where it lives among submarine rocks.
Hence Lamarck, in the first sketch of his history of inverte

brate animals, styled it Thalassema rupium. It was discovered

by the observant Gaertner, and by him sent to Pallas under
the name by which it is now known. Pallas, however, con
sidered it an annelide, and an ally of the earthworm, and
named it Lumhricus thalassema, under which name he de
scribes and figures it in his Spicilegia Zoological Montagu
afterwards found it and described it under the name of Tha-
lassina mutatoriaf At the same time he expressed his
belief that his animal was identical with that described by
Pallas, but supposed that the figure given by that illustrious
naturalist was incorrect. This, however, is not the case, the
figure of Pallas well representing the animal after preserva
tion in spirits, in which state doubtless he had only an oppor
tunity of seeing it.

    Of late it has been taken by Mr. Harvey at Teignmouth :
from his specimen our structural account is drawn up. Of its
external characters it need only be mentioned, additional to

* Fuse. x. t. 1. f. 6.  t Linnccan Trans, vol. xi. p. 24, t. v. f. 2.

THALASSEMA AND ECIIIXJRUS.  427

the descriptions of Pallas and Montagu, that it possesses a
short retractile trunk, as well as an oral appendage. Mon
tagu's account of its habits, when alive, is all we know of
them, but is most full and interesting, and may be found in
the eleventh volume of the Linnaan Transactions.

     The Echiurus vulgaris is a much larger and more remark

able animal A great number of individuals of this species

were thrown up on the sandy shore of St. Andrews during last

winter after a severe gale of wind. The largest specimens
measured about six inches long and half-an-inch in diameter.
The body of the creature is cylindrical, annulated with little
flat tubercles, which were floccose towards the two extremi

ties. From the anterior end projected a proboscis about half-
an-inch in length, not furnished with tentacula, and having
a deep red margin at the extremity. This proboscis is re

tractile, but not so a singular furrowed fleshy appendage
placed alongside of it. This appendage is highly extensile,

and forms a sort of sheath to the proboscis. A little way from

its junction with the body are two shining yellow cartilaginous

bristles ; short, lanceolate, curved, acuminate, and retractile.
These are the genital hooks. From between them runs a red
line down the body towards the anus, marking the course of
an internal vessel. The whole of the body is of a bright pink
colour, with obscure paler narrow rings and speckles caused
by the minute tubercles of the skin being of a paler hue.

The anus is placed at the posterior extremity on a somewhat
flattened disc, which is surrounded by two circles of corneous
setae, similar in structure to the genital hooks, but shorter.
They are ten in number in each circle. The anus is round
and red. The sheath of the proboscis differs in colour from

the rest of the animal, being of a bright scarlet. It is so

slightly affixed to the body as to break off on the least touch,
and in only one or two cases did we find it attached, and then
it broke away immediately on the removal of the animal.

428  NATURAL HISTORY AND ANATOMY OF

     On keeping the Echiurus alive in a vessel of sea-water, it
was continually changing its form, swelling itself out in various

Ifparts so as to assume very strange aud eccentric shapes.

a fresh supply of salt water was poured into the vessel, it

would on a sudden become very vivacious, starting up to

wards the surface, and swimming with spiral contortions in
the manner of an annelide. Then it would sink to the bottom
of the vessel, and swell itself out with water.

     The Echiurus, like the Thalassema, was first figured and
described by Pallas, who obtained it from the coast of Bel
gium. He gave a most accurate general representation of it,
but strangely omitted the true proboscis ; and by all writers
since his time the sheath has been described as a proboscis
not only in this case, but in the descriptions of most of the
other Thalassemacew.

     Montagu first perceived the true relation of the Thalas
sema, and remarks in his paper that it should immediately
precede Holothuria. This view of its position was also held
by Cuvier, and more lately by Brandt. Lamarck, however,
placed the Thalassema and Echiurus in his first division of

annelides, characterised by having no feet, and including the

families Hirudincs and Echiurm. In the latter, associated

with the earthworm and cirratulus, we find these animals
before us. Many zoologists since his time have looked upon
them as worms, but the structural details which follow will
show that their relation to the annelides is one of analogy
and not of affinity, and that their true position is among the
Echinodermata in the order of Vermigrada or Sipunculidm*

                       Echiurus-- Digestive System.

     The digestive tube commences by a mouth of a rounded
form, very small in the state of contraction, funnel-shaped
when dilated. The oral orifice is continuous with a canal

                             * Sec Forties's British Echinodermata.

THALASSEMA AND ECHIURUS.  429

which is sacculated and contracted at intervals, particularly
in its posterior half. This first portion of the intestinal appa
ratus, which may be denominated the pharynx, is arranged in
two coils so as to resemble somewhat the figure 8. These
coils are compressed and kept in position by the muscles of
the oral hooks and by the blood-vessels, which assume a com
plicated arrangement in this part of the animal. The tube
then contracts into a highly muscular but very narrow oeso
phagus. This rather suddenly dilates into the remaining part
of the canal, which is nearly uniform in diameter, thin and
delicate in texture ; arranged in a somewhat spiral direction

till near the posterior part of the animal, returning upon itself

in the same manner for two-thirds of the length of the body,

and then proceeding to the cloaca as a straight and rather
narrow tube. The cloaca is smaller than the same organ in
the HolothuriadcB. From mouth to anus the canal measures

from three to four feet. The pharynx is two inches long, the
oesophagus four, and the remainder is so uniform in diameter

as to render it impossible to distinguish any division into sto

mach, intestines, etc., and so fragile as to render measurement

very difficult. The pharynx exhibits distinct circular muscu
lar fibres, and in the oesophagus they are so strong and so

arranged in bundles as to give it the appearance of a windpipe.
The tube is not connected to the parietes of the body by a

mesentery, but by numerous delicate muscular threads irre
gularly arranged and intermingled with minute blood-vessels.
Near the middle of the body the folds of intestines are filled
with a yellow bilious mass, but we could detect no trace of a
liver, or of glandular structure in the coats of the gut.

     The respiratory sacs open into the cloaca on each side of

the rectum. These sacs do not ramify, and are about one-third
of the length of the animal, and exhibit in the living individual

lively motions -- contracting, dilating, elongating, and twisting.
They are of a vivid red colour from the number of vessels dis

430  NATURAL HISTORY AND ANATOMY OF

tributed to them, and have a mottled appearance from nume

rous microscopic organs attached to their external surface.

When a small portion of the respiratory organ is cut from the
living animal and placed under the microscope in a little sea-
water, the dots observed with the naked eye on its outer or

peritoneal surface, exhibit the appearance of a number of fun

nels, with their necks attached, and their cup-like extremities

standing erect. Each of these funnels has its outer surface,
rim, and inner surface or cavity, covered with cilia which
exhibit lively motions. The inner or mucous surface of the

respiratory sac has a number of rounded somewhat lobulated
elevations on each corresponding to one of the funnels on
the outer surface. These elevations are covered with cilia,
     a
                   it,

                                            ;

                                                                 a
                                                                          is

                                                                                                                                  ;
but on the membrane between them none could be seen.

The ciliated funnels could be withdrawn into the pouches

formed by the ciliated elevations of the internal surface but

we could not obtain ocular demonstration of what we suspect
to be the case --that the cavities of the funnels open into the

common respiratory cavities, and that the ciliated elevations
of the inner surface disappear when the funnels in the outer

surface are extended and vice versa, current being in this

way established between the respiratory cavities and the com

mon cavity of the body of the animal, which  full of sea-

water. The muscular fibres of the two respiratory sacs ex
hibit peculiar arrangement. Both the transverse and longi
tudinal fibres have an undulating course so as to surround the

necks of each of the funnel-shaped organs as the fibres of the
Ifhuman gravid uterus surround the uterine sinuses.
                                                                                                                                     the

currents of sea- water flow through the funnels, the contraction

of the muscular fibres can stop that flow, and enable the
animal to fill the respiratory sacs by the following process.
By contracting the anterior part of its body, and pushing the

contained sea-water back, the animal distends its posterior

portion into bulbous shape, in consequence of which the
     a

         THALASSEMA AND ECHIDRUS.  431

enclosed portions of the anal spines become widely separated ;
and from their connection with the cloaca that cavity is
dilated, and, acting like a syringe, sucks in more water. The

animal then closes the anus, and contracts the cloaca by push
ing the water in its body forwards. This simultaneous action

forces the water contained in the cloaca into the respiratory

sacs, along which it is conveyed by their powerful vermicular

or peristaltic action. A slight relaxation of the muscular
fibres of the sacs, and the erection of the ciliated funnels, will

allow the water to pass into the cavity of the body, while the

action of the cilia will remove it through the same channels
in a contrary direction.

     The vascular system consists of two longitudinal vessels,
one running along the ventral surface of the body, the other

along the unattached surface of the intestine. The intestinal

trunk is always full of blood in the weak or dead animal, the

ventral trunk always empty or collapsed. From this circum

stance, from the general arrangement of the vascular system,

and from the position of the respiratory organs, we are

inclined to think, although we have not been able to verify

the opinion by actual observation, that the former vessel is

the venous, the latter the arterial trunk. The vein com

mences by numerous radicles on the oesophageal portion of

the digestive tube, runs along the edges of the gut, collecting

branches as it proceeds. On the rectum, the trunk disap

pears by being divided into innumerable branches, which are

apparently arterial, and proceed to the respiratory sacs, which,

as before stated, are highly vascular. The arterial or ventral

vessel is apparently formed by radicles from the respiratory
sacs (branchial veins). Its walls are thin, and are perceived

with difficulty on the surface of the nervous cord. In its
course it supplies vessels to the intestines ; and when it arrives
at the convolutions of the pharynx, it sends off from its right

side a large trunk, which, proceeding to the right oral hook,

vol. I.  2F

432 NATURAL HISTORY AND ANATOMY OF

surrounds it and its muscles by dividing and again closing.

It then proceeds to the commencement of the oesophagus, and

joins a vessel to be described immediately. The ventral

vessel, after giving off this great trunk, proceeds to the oral

extremity of the pharynx, round which it forms a vascular

circle. The latter sends branches hack upon the pharynx ;
and a branch forwards, which forms a second circle or vascu
lar zone round the lip, on the surface of the nervous ring, and
a large trunk which, running to the middle of the pharynx,
dilates into a sacculated sinus, which probably owes its peculiar
appearance to the transverse contractions into which this por
tion of the tube is generally thrown. This sinus runs along
the second portion of the pharynx, and at the commencement
of the oesophagus receives the trunk formerly described as

proceeding from the ventral vessel. It then terminates by

ramifying on the oesophagus, and supplying this portion of the
tube with aerated blood. The use of the large trunk which
comes off from the ventral vessel, is evidently to .supply the
mouth, trunk, and anterior part of the digestive tube, with
arterial blood, when the animal has projected the anterior part
of the body, and when the constriction of the snout, and the
pressure of the sand in which it is boring, would prevent the
free circulation of the blood in the two vascular circles, at

times when the supply is absolutely necessary from increased
muscular action.

      The nervous system is very simple, being merely a ring

surrounding the anterior part of the pharynx when it becomes
continuous with the skin. From this ring a nervous cord
runs along the under side of the animal to the extremity of
the body, terminating abruptly by sending off a few branches.
Along its course the cord gives off numerous lateral twigs,
which are unsymmetrical, and continue free for a short dis
tance from their origin, and then disappear in the muscular
parietes of the body. When the animal is contracted, the

THALASSEMA AND ECHIURUS.  433

cord is arranged in close undulations, and exhibits no ganglionic

enlargements. It consists of a moderately long sheath, in which

the nervous matter is contained in a very soft condition.
     The reproductive system consists of four sacs which open

on the ventral surface by minute orifices, two immediately
behind the genital hooks, the other two about an inch farther
back, and both pairs about one-third of an inch from the
median line. When the Echiurus is not in season, they are
about one inch and a half long, one-fourth of an inch in
diameter, highly transparent, so as to be almost invisible,
and possessed of the power of twisting in all directions.
When the male is in season they become greatly enlarged,
four inches long, half-au-inch in diameter, with one or two
contracted portions. The contained fluid is milk-white, and

rather consistent ; and when examined under a high power,
it is seen to swarm with exceedingly active globular sper
matozoa, which exhibit rapid whirling and dancing motions.
The male organs, when in this condition, are remarkably
beautiful objects, being covered with large thread-like and
transparent scarlet blood-vessels, which are relieved by the
dead cream-white of the organs themselves. We have not

seen the female sacs fully distended ; when moderately so,
the eggs appear to be arranged as in the roe of osseous
fishes, and are about the size of millet-seed. Examined under
the microscope, the egg appears as a highly - transparent
globule, enclosing towards its centre a number of smaller

globules or cells.
     The structure of Thalassema nrptuni is in all respects

identical with Echiurus, the only difference, and that an
unimportant one, being the less complicated arrangement of

the intestinal tube.

     The oral and anal hooks and spines of Echiurus, and the
oral hooks of the Tluilasscma, are protruded and withdrawn

exactly as the setae and booklets among the Annelidas.

434 NATUKAL HISTORY AND ANATOMY OF THALASSEMIA, ETC.

    From the anatomical description we Lave now given, it is

evident that the genera Ecliiurus and TJialassema must be
arranged in the class Echinodermata. The body filled with

sea-water--the respiratory apparatus -- the digestive system --

and the intestinal venous trunk, are the leading anatomical
peraliarities, and are characteristic' of the echinodermatous
animals. The colour and circulation of the blood, the want
of an aquiferous system, the ventral nervous cord, and the
muscular system, show the relation of these animals to the
Annclides, and prove that the transition from a vermiform
radiate animal to a true articulate animal, is effected by the
symmetrical atrophy and hypertrophy of certain of the radiate
elements in each ring.

PELONAIA, A NEW GENUS OF TUNICATED MOLLUSKS. 435

XII.-- ON PELONAIA, A NEW GENUS OF TUNI
       CATED MOLLUSKS, WITH DESCRIPTION OF

        TWO SPECIES. By Edward Forbes and John
        Goodsir*

Among the Ascidian Molhisca which we have collected to

gether, with a view to a complete investigation of the British

Tunicata, are two remarkable animals, which appear to repre

sent a very natural genus as yet unrecorded. They differ from

their allies in the tribe chiefly by their not being fixed, and

by their form, which reminds one more of that of a Sipunculus

than of an Ascidia ; indeed they may be regarded as analogues

of certain Sipunculidre, and in that point of view the details of

their forms and structure are of much interest to the naturalist.

They are both of a cylindrical shape, having their orifices

on the same plane, elevated on papillose eminences at one ex

tremity of the body. No rays or tentacula surround either of

the orifices. The posterior extremity of each terminates in

a blunt point. They live buried in mud, quite unattached to

any other body, and are extremely apathetic animals, present

ing scarcely any appearance of motion.

     We have styled the genus Pelonaia (tjjXJs, mTu), and define

it as follows :--

Test, cylindrical, unattached.

Orifices, without rays, or two equal approximated papillose

eminences at the anterior extremity.

     Species 1. P. cerriiyata.  Test, deep brown, much elongated,
rudely wriMed transversely.

* Read bvfore the Weinman Natural History Society, April 17, 1841.

436  PELONAIA, A NEW GENUS OF TUNICATED MOLLUSKS.

    In the mud-filled cavities of old shells from deep water --
Anstruther. It has also been taken by Dr. Johnston at Ber

wick

     Species 2. P. glabra. Test, greenish-yellow, smooth, pilose,

not nearly so much elongated as tlie last.
     Dredged in seven fathoms water, in mud, Eothesay Bay.

                              Anatomy of P. glabra.

     1. Muscular System. --The mantle is similar to those of the

other Ascidias, possessing longitudinal and circular fibres. A

strong band of transverse fibres passes round the mantle, im

mediately below the anal orifice, encroaching on the cavity
principally on that side. The chief peculiarity of the mantle

is its firm adhesion to the test.

     2. Digestive and Respiratory Systems. -- The respiratory

opening is of small size, and exhibits no folds or tentacular
fringes. The respiratory sac is elongated, cylindrical, con
tracting rather suddenly towards one side to become continu
ous with the oesophagus. On the external surface of the sac
there are about thirty parallel transverse ridges, which give
it the appearance of a plaited frill. These plaits are less
apparent along the course of the branchial artery and branchial
vein, but midway between them on each side they are very
prominent, and are tied each by a minute cord to the inner
surface of the mantle. The internal surface of the sac exhibits

along one side the serpentine double cord which contains the

branchial vein ; along the other side the branchial artery ;

and from these primary and secondary perpendicular branches
proceeding, as in the other Ascuiice. The transverse plaits
on the external surface of the sac correspond to the primary
or transverse branches of the vessels on the internal surface.
The animal was not examined when alive, but cilia without
doubt exist in great abundance on the edges of the lozenge-
shaped spaces of the sac.

l'ELONAIA, A NEW GENUS OF TUNICATED MOLLUSKS.  437

     The oesophagus commences by a white plicated opening at

the lower end, and on one side of the sac. It is curved in a

sigmoidal form, and exhibits longitudinal rugse through its
coats. Near the lower end of the mantle cavity, it terminates

by suddenly ddating into the stomach, which is pear-shaped,
and directed obliquely upwards towards the side opposite to
the oesophagus. The internal surface of the stomach presents
longitudinal plicae, and is succeeded by the intestine, which
at first curves upwards, then down to the bottom of the mantle
cavity, up along the oesophageal side of that cavity, and be
tween its walls and the branchial artery, terminating about
the anterior third of the animal in a funnel-shaped anus, which
is cut into ten or eleven processes like the petals of a flower.
The first part of the intestine is white and longitudinally
plicated ; the rectum is dilated with attenuated coats.

     3. Vascular System. --The vascular system resembles that
of the true Ascidicc, except that there is no heart. It consists

of two sets of vessels, with four sets of capillaries, a circle
in fact twice interrupted, once in the respiratory sac, and
again throughout the body. The branchial veins run along
the transverse plaits of the sac, receiving secondary and ter
nary twigs at right angles. The primary branchial venous
branches empty themselves on each side into the branchial
venous trunk, which runs in the substance of the double cord

wluch coasts the superior aspect of the sac. This double cord
terminates in an abrupt manner anteriorly near the oral ori
fice, and in a similar manner, but after becoming smaller, near
the Orifice leading to the oesophagus. At this point the vein

becomes an artery, and probably sends back vessels to nourish

the sac. It now runs along the oesophagus, supplying the

stomach and intestine, and giving off in its course branches

 to the cloak. The veins arising from the arterial capillaries
of the body meet near the commencement of the oesophagus
in one trunk, which, passing along the inferior wall of the re

438 PELONAIA, A. NEW GENUS OF TUNICATED MOLLUSKS.

spiratory sac, opposite to the branchial vein, performs the
function of a branchial artery.

    It is interesting to observe here the differences between

the modes in which the branches enter the branchial vein,
and strike off from the branchial artery. In the former, just
before the branches enter the trunk, they give off a number
of vessels, which enter the trunk alongside of their parent
trunk--the combination forming a sort of delta : in the latter
they leave the trunk singly, and send off their branches in a
radiating direction. At a little distance from the trunks of
both artery and vein, the secondary branches become parallel
to one another, and perpendicular to their primary branches,
the more minute divisions following the same mode of rami
fication.

     Not having examined the animal when alive, we have no
information as to the nature of its blood.

     4. Nervous System. --This system consists, as in other As-
cidicc, of a ganglion situated in the substance of the mantle,

between the oral and anal orifices. It is globular, and sends

off nervous twigs -- 1. To the respiratory orifice of the mantle,
2. To the respiratory sac, where it begins to exhibit the trans

verse plaits, and 3. To the anal orifice of the mantle.

     5. Generative System. --The generative organs consist of

two elongated tubes, closed at one end, open at the other,
and having a great number of close-set parallel cseca, arranged
at right angles, and opening into them along each side.
These tubes are attached to the internal surface of the mantle,
their mouths free for a short distance, and prominent, the
rest of their extent and the attached caeca adherent. The
orifices of these organs are situate at the junction of the first
with the second quarter of the animal, and one-third of the
other end of each turns in towards its neighbour, and then
proceeds forward parallel to itself. The branchial vein runs

midway between the generative tubes, above, and the bran

PELONAIA, A NEW GENUS OF TUNICATED MOLLUSKS.  439

chial artery in a corresponding course below, so that the
threads of attachment of the plaits on the external surface of
the sac are fixed into the tubes, in a series on each side.

                            Anatomy of P. corrugata*

     The structure of this species differs very little from that of
the P. glabra. The animal being elongated, the organs are
placed more longitudinally. The respiratory sac is longer,
the stomach is longer, and is not placed so much across the
body. The oesophagus runs down to the bottom of the sac
before it terminates. The rectum is very long, and of con
siderable width, but just before it terminates in the anus, it
becomes very much contracted. The mantle exhibits no

ridge or shelf below the anal orifice, but its longitudinal fibres
are very strong, and form a thick bundle at their origin round
the respiratory opening. The test, instead of being thin and
diaphanous like parchment, as in P. glabra, is thick, carti
laginous in appearance, coloured brown, and transversely
wrinkled externally.

     From the details of structure which we have now given, it
is evident that the PdonaicB are Ascidicc. Their anatomy is
important, as it explains the nature of the parts and organs in

the Tunicata. They differ from the other Ascidicc more parti
cularly in being bilateral. The generative organs are sym
metrical, and open one on each side of the anus, which is
directed towards the ventral surface of the animal, in a line
with the mouth and nervous ganglion. The latter is thus

proved to be an abdominal or sub-cesophageal ganglion, corre
sponding to, or forming one of the chains of ganglia on the

abdominal surface of, the articulata. In the same manner

the branchial artery or heart is proved to be the pulsating

      * Additional details, with some modifications in the description, have
recently been given by Dr. W. (.'. M'liilosh, iu the Annals vf Natural History,
June 1807. -- Eds.

440  PELONAIA, A NEW GENUS OF TUNICATED MOLLUSKS.

dorsal vessel, and the branchial vein the abdominal vessel

(when that vessel exists) in the annulosa. It is interesting

also to perceive that, co-existing with this decided approach
to the annular type of form, we have the transverse plaits of
the respiratory sac corresponding to the rings of an articulated
animal. The disappearance of a separate test is also a de
parture from the plan of formation in the Ascidice, and an
approach to other types of form, and more particularly to the
Cirrograde Echinodermata, with certain of which Pelonaia
has at least an analogical relation, in the water-filled body,
and in the external form.

     Pclonaia, in fine, is one of those connecting genera so
valuable as rilling up gaps in the system, and supplying links
in the chain of structures, which runs through the series of

organised bodies.

APPENDIX,


                         APPENDIX.

L-- ON ASYNCHRONISM OF THE AURICULAR CON
 TRACTIONS IN THE REPTILIAN HEART-- May 14, 1859.

Having occasion, in the beginning of August last, to inject the
Iarterial system of Scincus variegatus, laid bare the heart to empty
Ithe vessels by bleeding.
                           was astonished to observe what ap

peared to be a want of synchronism in the movements of the

Iauricles. After a little observation, was compelled to admit that

the two auricles did not contract synchronously, but that after the

ventricular diastole the right auricle began to contract, followed by
Ithe left.
            also observed that the contraction of the ventricle

began at its right side, in the neighbourhood of the pulmonary

artery, and terminated on the left or arterial sinus of the ventricle.

I now looked at Briicke's memoir in the Vienna Transactions, and

found that he had described a ventricular arrangement by which

venous blood only passes into the pulmonary artery in reptiles, that

the ventricle begins to contract on its right side, and afterwards on

its left. He takes no notice of any want of synchronism in the

auricular contractions.

Messrs. Arthur and Stirling confirmed the observation on the

lizard, and were also inclined, along with me, to admit a somewhat

Isimilar asynchronance in the auricular contraction in the frog,

although knew of no arrangement by which this co-operates in

Ithe sole transmission of venous blood to the lungs.
        exposed yesterday the heart of a tortoise, by removing four
portions of the plastron with a trephine, in the presence of Mr.
Turner. The asynchronism of the auricles did not appear to me so

well marked as in the lizard. Mr. Turner scarcely admitted its

444                      APPENDIX.

existence, but latterly expressed his opinion that the contraction of

the right auricle terminated before that of the left. The contrac

tion of the ventricle appeared to both of us to commence on the

right side, and to be followed up by that of the left side. The

close of ventricular contraction, or the commencement of diastole,

was accompanied by a depression of the anterior wall of the ventricle

towards its right side.

The distension of the pulmonary artery followed the contraction

of the right side of the ventricle, that of the anterior aorta appeared

to follow the contraction of the left side of the ventricle ; but this

appearance depends probably on the earlier closure of the orifice of

the pulmonary artery, and the continued distension of the systemic

arteries.

   I attribute the less marked asynchronism of the auricular

contraction in this animal partly to the small amount of its blood

from winter fast, partly to the interventricular septum being less

Ideveloped than in the lizard
       found that by turning up the ventricle by the handle of a

scalpel, the prior contraction of the right auricle was quite distinct.

It commences at the venous or vestibular extremity, and extends

forward to the apex of the auricle. After the commencement of

Icontraction in the right auricle that of the left begins, but the con
traction of the right ceases before that of the left.  requested Mr.

Turner to examine the movements in this manner, and he at once

detected the prior contraction of the right auricle.

    It appears to me that the blood of the right auricle diffuses itself

over the anterior or inferior part of the ventricle, for the whole

of this surface possesses a dark tint during distension. On the

back or upper surface, again, the dark tint is confined to the right

side, no doubt in consequence of the blood of the left auricle pre

occupying that compartment.

     "We must assume that after the ventricular systole, and until

the auricular blood enters, the muscular fibres remain unelongated.

The ventricular compartments must therefore be nearly obliterated

(see sections of contracted ventricle of turtle in museum), and the
blood from the auricles must pass through the ventricle in the

direction of least resistance. Now, as the right auricle contracts

first, the venous blood passing out of it is directed obliquely into

APPENDIX.  445

the left side of the ventricle, under the fleshy ridge which projects
from the superior wall and hase into the compartment from which
issue the two aortae, and with which the pulmonary compartment

communicates. It passes, however, under the fleshy ridge or sep

tum (septum between venous and arterial ventricular compartments)
towards the arterial compartment into which the blood of the left
auricle begins to pass, a little later than that of the right into the
right compartment. The passage of the venous blood from right
to left is impeded by the spongy arrangement of the anterior or

under part of the ventricle. In consequence, therefore, of first, the

prior entrance of the venous blood, and of the course of least resist
ance into the venous compartment of the ventricle given it by the
arrangement of the right auriculo- ventricular valve ; second, the
secondary entrance of the arterial blood of the left auricle, and its
course of least resistance given by the left auriculo-ventricular valve ;
and, third, the retardation of the passage of the venous blood to
the left side by the spongy texture ; time is afforded for a sufficient
quantity of mixed venous blood passing into the pulmonary artery
by the prior contraction of the right side of the ventricle. After
the closure of the pulmonary compartment and its complete con
traction, the pulmonary artery begins to react, while the left side of

the ventricle continuing to contract, black blood continues to flow as
it did from the first into the aorta, but with more admixture of

arterial blood, until the last blood, perhaps entirely arterial, alone

passes through them.

   IMay 18. -- removed by means of a trephine a circle of bone

over the pericardium of a small tortoise of the same species. The
small size of the heart enabled me and John Arthur to discriminate

very distinctly the prior or initial contraction of the right auricle,
and also the commencement of ventricular contraction in the right
side, its longer continuance on the left. The portion of the ven
tricle which continues longest to contract is the left angle of the
ventricle, which receives the blood of the left auricle, as shown by
the scarlet tint of both. The black blood of the right auricle was
seen, on entering the ventricle, to occupy in the first place the right
side of the cavity, and then to disperse itself towards the left,
on the sternal wall of the chamber, the posterior part of the left
side of the chamber being occupied by red blood.

446 APPENDIX.

IL--NOTES ON THE MYOLOGY OF THE ELEPHANT.

                                       May 1856.

    The Fannicuhis mrnosus consists of four portions -- 1st, cervical,

ribbon-shaped, which arises from the forepart of the process of the

scapular spine, and passes upwards and forwards ; 2d, dorsal,
arises from the elastic fascia on the back about a foot from the

mesial line, and from along the posterior margin of the thorax :

half-way down, its fibres converging are inserted by a thin tendon

to the spine of the scapula ; 3d, thoracic, from the remaining part

of the margin of the thorax, with an edge below : its fibres con

verge to within the arm ; 4th, a portion which arises from the line

of origin of the last and below    it,converges backwards to strong
                                               is                        is
tendon which spreads over the patella, and under cover of the strong        a

fascia of the outside of the thigh.

    The fascia of the posterior limb               exceedingly strong and

appears to be continuous with the fascia of the trunk with which

the Panniadus carnosus  is  also continuous. On the back and

side of the belly consists almost entirely of yellow texture, except
    it

in the middle of the back, the fibres pass upwards and backwards.

Along the outer side of the thigh    it      very thick and yellow from
                                         is

the spine of the ilium to the outside of the knee over the latter
                                                      ;

it  becomes white and envelopes the patella and joint, passing

downwards, backwards, and inwards.                                           remark

    In the anterior limb the subcutaneous areolar tissue

ably dense, and presents the appearance of close mesh-work of
                                                   a

fibrous bundles without fat. The aponeurosis commences on the

outer side of the limb in the line of the spine of the scapula and
point of the shoulder, attached to the former, and lost above the

latter on the surface of the anterior spinatus muscle at the lower
                                     it

                                          is
                                                   it
                                                            a it
                                                                   is ;
part of the bend of the elbow, and downwards to the carcase,                   it
                                                                                  is it
becomes thick, longitudinally fasciculated, and almost entirely com

posed of elastic tissue on the outer part of the shoulder
        ;;
merely fibrous but strong also over the triceps;                         aponeurotic

and comparatively thin over the olecranon has similar appear

ance, but on the back of the arm             again elastic though thin         ;

below the carcase degenerates into dense areolar tissue or fascia,
    it

         APPENDIX.  447

which covers the flexor and extensor tendons, passing into the pad
of the sole and forming a thick elastic cushion at the back part or
heel of the foot.

     Subscapularis arises on the greater part of the costal surface of
the scapula, comparatively thin and weak, inserted to the internal

tubercle of the humerus. The superior anterior angle of the costal
surface of the scapula, where it forms a thick surface, is occupied
by the attachment of the serratus magnus, it also extends

down over a considerable extent of the vertebral margin of the

bone.

      The latissimus dorsi in passing forward to the humerus is
extensively connected to the posterior inferior part of the same
margin, and lays hold by a strong aponeurosis to the correspond
ing surface of the subscapularis.

      Coraco brachialis, attached above to the coracoid tubercle,
has its tendon firmly attached to the inner surface of the tendon
of insertion of the subscapularis, and is inserted into the whole
length of the inner ridge of the humerus, as far down as the
internal condyle : its tendon of origin passing down almost to its

lower end, and the muscular fasciculi numerous, short, and

oblique.
      Triceps extensor consists of five heads ; the inner head is small,

and arises from the inner head of the humerus as far down as the

condyle ; the scapular head is of enormous size, and arises from the
whole extent of the posterior margin of the bone; there is added to
this scapular head a flat mass or head, which arises along with it from
the posterior part of the margin, and extends down altogether inde
pendently to the inner side of the olecranon. The outer head is
massive, and arises from the outer and back part of tho humerus as
far down as the great external tuberosity of the bone ; from this
external tuberosity a small but distinct fifth head arises. The

larger and smaller external, internal, and the scapular heads, are
inserted by a common tendon into the olecranon, but the narrow
head which arises along with the scapular has a distinct tendon to
the inner side of the olecranon.

     Flexor carpi radialis, from the centre tubercle of the internal
condyle, fusiform, except in the central part of its posterior surface,
between its two tendons consists of elastic tissue ; distal tendon

VOL. I.  2G

448 APPENDIX.

passes under annular ligament in a sheath ; appears to be attached to

two metacarpal bones.
      Palmaris longus, from the posterior margin of the internal

condyle, along with the deep and superficial common flexors, passes
under the superficial part of the annular ligament in the direction
of the pisiform bone ; expands into the palmar fascia.

     Flexor digitorum sublimis, from posterior margin of the internal
condyle with the palmaris longus and flexor profundus, by a per
fectly distinct head from the upper two-thirds of the inner margin
of the olecranon, and from the corresponding part of its anterior
surface ; this head joins the other head of the muscle about one-
third down the forearm. At the same level the common mass of
the flexor sublimis becomes detached from the palmaris longus and
flexor profundus, passes down to the carpus under the annular
ligament, with which its lower tendon is intimately connected.

      Flexor d. profundus, considerably more massive than the f.

sublimis, arises altogether from the internal condyle (its posterior

part and inner margin) ; it passes down, covered by palm, longus and
flexor sublimis, and underneath the annular ligament and tendon
of the superficial flexor.

     Flexor longus pollicis arises from the internal condyle, ante
rior and inferior to the flexor profundus, terminates in a delicate
tendon at the lower third of the arm which passes underneath the
annular ligament along with the tendons of the other flexors.

     Flexor carpi ulnaris arises from the inner, lower, and back part
of the surface of the olecranon, as a small conical muscle which
terminates in a cord-like tendon at the upper part of the arm, and
which passes down towards the pisiform bone under the deep flexors
of the fingers. The elongated pisiform bone, which passes consider
ably inwards towards the annular ligament, co-operates with the
latter in forming the tendinous retinaculum.

      Anconeus, from the lower two-thirds of the posterior surface
of the elongated external condyle of the humerus, and separated
by a deep intermuscular space from the smaller external head of
the triceps. The fibres extend downwards, curving forwards, to be
attached to the whole external surface of the olecranon and the

external surface of the ulna half-way down. Some of the fibres
curve to the posterior aspect of the bone.

   APPENDIX.             449

      Extensor carpi ulnaris arises by a small but strong tendon from;a it,
 the external part of external condyle of the humerus, is massivea
a
 and fusiform, and passes under a tendinous arch from the back part
of the lower end of the ulna in a shallow groove. The tendon then     a
 passes down on the inner edge of the foot to be attached to the

head of the metacarpal bone of the fifth toe ; it is crossed over near
its insertion by the tendon of the ext. min. digiti.

      Extensor minimi digiti is a cylindrical muscle closely bound
down by an aponeurotic sheath to the ridge between the outer
and anterior surface of the ulna. Above, it arises from the fore
part of the external condyle, but almost all the way down it is

attached to the ulna by means of its aponeurotic sheath. It continues

fleshy down to the wrist-joint, and is tied down by the annular
ligament in the shallow groove in front of the lower end of the bone.

It changes its direction beyond the annular ligament, inwards and

backwards, crossing the tendon of the last muscle, and is inserted
into the upper and inner part of the metacarpal bone of the
fifth toe.

    Extensor digitorum communis. --In connection with the origin of

this muscle is a very thick intermuscular septum, which is attached
all along the edge which separates the inner from the anterior sur
faces of the ulna, and separates the last muscle from the common
extensor. This septum is attached superiorly to the external condyle
of the humerus by means of an excessively strong portion of the
common investing aponeurosis of the forearm. This portion of
the aponeurosis forms a band consisting principally of elastic fibre
of a yellow colour, and fully an inoh thick at the lower part of its
extent ; it splits into two portions, which are attached to the mar
gins of the groove to which the tendon of the last muscle passes.
The muscle itself arises from the deep surface of nearly the upper
half of this band ; it is aponeurotic where the muscle arises from
but entirely elastic in its texture below its fibres superiorly arise
from the external condyle of the humerus, rapidly oonverge to form
massive conical compressed double penniform muscle, which termi
nates little above the carpus in numerous laterally-connected
tendons, which are arranged in the form of flattened ribbon in
shallow groove on the lower and fore part of the ulna, tied down by
the transverse ligament, and with an extensive synovial apparatus

450    APPENDIX.

.upon the front of the carpus. This ribbon divides into three portions ;
the small internal one, passing down to the inner edge of the foot,
divides into two slips, one for the fourth, the other for the fifth
digits ; it is connected by a transverse slip to the middle division ;
the middle division reunites along the metatarsal region with the

external division ; they separate again at the base of the first pha
langes-- the middle division passing on to the third toe, the external

division dividing between the first and second toes.
     Extensor primi et secundi digitorum arises from the arti

cular surface of the ulna over a narrow space or line about its
middle, and, under cover of the common extensor, comes out from

beneath and tied down by the annular ligament near the trans
is
               it,
                          is

                                     a
                                                                      ;

                                                           A
verse ligament on its outer side continuing fleshy beyond the liga
ment, terminates in small tendon, w hich, splitting at its extremity,

   attached to the phalanges of the first and second toes.
     Extensor ossis metaearpi pollieis. -- fleshy mass arising from

the anterior surface of the ulna along with the last muscle, but

principally from the front of the radius. From its head down

wards to its lower fifth its fibres are oblique, terminate in strong
                                                                                                                a

tendon on its outer edge, and continue with the tendon down to

the annular ligament, by which                                   tied down in the hollow on
a

                                            it

                                                             is
the outer edge and back part of the radius. Its tendon, thick like

rope above, flattens out below, doubles upon itself, so as to form

two laminae, which are inserted continuously to the metacarpal bone
of the first toe.

     Extensor carpi radialis longus arises from the humerus by

small origin in front, and to the outer side of the rough im
a
                          is

                             is
                                         is a

                                                  is
                                                                                          a

                                                                                    is
                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                             a
pression of the centre of its anterior ridge. This                       comparatively

small elongated muscle, intimately attached about its middle to tho
thick portion of the aponeurosis of the arm, to which the ccrvico-

hunieral muscle attached. The muscle itself forms the anterior

margin of the anterior muscular prominence between the upper arm
and forearm, and, extending downwards, terminates in rope-like
tendon, which crossed obliquely by the tendon of the extensor

ossis metacarpi pollicis, and tied down in sheath formed by
the annular ligament in groove on the fore-part of the outer sur
face of the radius, and inserted into the front of the scaphoid

bone.

APPENDIX.  451

    Extensor carpi radialis brevis. --A much more massive muscle

of a flattened conical form, which arises from the external ridge
of the humerus above the external condyle in contact with the

last muscle. It extends down, and transmits its large rope-like

tendon under the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and under the
annular ligament, which ties it down in the same osseous groove,
but in a distinct sheath from the extensor longus. The tendon,

flattening out, extends obliquely down the carpus and metacarpus,
to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the third toe.

III.-- NOTES ON THE GENERAL MORPHOLOGY OF THE

                         MUSCLES.-- January 1857.

     The muscular, like the osseous system, is segmented.
    This is proved -- firstly, from embryology ; and, secondly, from
comparative anatomy.
     The primordial transversely-segmented myome, with its longi
tudinally-arranged muscular fasciculi, is converted during develop
ment into a complex system of longitudinal, oblique, and transverse
muscles.
     The morphological divisions of the muscular system by Professor
Johannes Miiller aTe --
     1. Trunk lateral muscles, which in man are represented by the
muscles of the dorsal region.
      2. Intercostal muscles.
     3. Abdominal muscles.
     4. Muscles of limbs.
     Miiller's system is morphologically insufficient, inasmuch as it
only admits the lateral trunk muscles as homologous with the pri
mordial muscular arrangement (or rather with the upper hall), while
it would appear to indicate the other divisions as superadded or

teleological.
     The primary subdivisions of the muscular system appear to me

to be --
     1. A layer on the inner aspect of the haemal chamber.
    2. A layer on the exterior of the sclerome.
     3. The muscles of the limbs, which, however, are merely modi

452  APPENDIX.

fied portions of the two first divisions, but principally of the

second.

     Thus the first division consists of--

    a. A layer lining the luemal arches.

      b. Pre-vertebral muscles.

      c. Such pre-vertebral muscles as are attached to the limbs.

     The second division consists of--

      a. Muscles of so-called dorsal group.

      b. Intercostal muscles.

     c. Recti abdominis.
     d. External and internal oblique muscles.

    e. All the muscles of the limbs, except those derived from the

               first division.

    /. Cutaneous muscles.

     The third division therefore, although apparently distinct, and
conveniently considered as such, is in fact derived from the first

and second divisions.

IV.-- NOTES ON THE MORPHOLOGY OF THE MUSCLES

                   OF THE LIMBS.--June 15, 1858.

    If the human femur and humerus be compared together, as

observed from the front of each, it will be perceived, that while the
surface of attachment of the brachialis anticus extends from the
outer to the inner humeral ridges, up as far as the lower part of the
insertion of the deltoid, inclosing the attachment of that muscle by
its bifurcation, the surface of attachment of the homologous muscle
in the thigh extends from each lip of the linea aspera and as far up
as the intertrochanteric ridge. From this enormous extension of

that muscular mass, termed vastus externus, vastus internus, and
crureus, the homologue of the brachialis anticus, all the other
muscles attached to the thigh-bone are attached to its trochanters
and condyles, and to the space enclosed between the hps of the
linea aspera. The comparison, therefore, of the characteristic con
figuration of the humerus and femur, or, in other words, the serial
homology of their processes, surfaces, and edges, must be determined

by a careful comparison of the corresponding or homologous nius

APPENDIX.  453

cular attachments. The homology of these two muscular masses
affords a key, not only to the general muscular homologies of the
arm and thigh, but also to the corresponding osseous homologies.

     The iliacus internus and psoas magnus are attached together
into the trochanter minor. Of these two muscles the iliacus
internus has been hitherto considered by the few anatomists who
have directed their attention to this subject, as the homologue of
the subscapularis ; but it has never apparently been taken into

consideration, that whereas the subscapularis passes from the

scapula to the humerus, under and behind both the clavicle and the
coracoid, the iliacus internus and psoas magnus pass from the ilium
to the femur in front of and above the pubis and ischium, the
homologues of the clavicle and coracoid.

     The iliacus internus cannot therefore be the homologue of the

subscapularis. It will be observed, that if the brachialis anticus

were to mount upwards, on the front of the humerus, to the region
of its tuberosities, and to force its margins backwards until they
nearly met on the back of the shaft of the bone, it would force the
humeral attachment of the deltoid upwards and inwards, so that it
would assume a position on the humerus corresponding to that of
the trochanter minor and the thigh-bone. The outer surface of the
ilium gives attachment to a pair of muscles -- the gluteus medius
and minimus -- which are the homologues of the inferior spinatus

and teres minor muscles ; the internal surface gives attachment below
to the obturator internus, which is the homologue of the subscapu
laris ; the anterior surface, which gives attachment to the iliacus
internus, must therefore correspond to that portion of the scapula
intermediate between the subscapular fossa and the inferior spi
natus at the cervical margin of the bone. The muscle, therefore,
arising from the surface, must be either the homologue of the supra-
spinatus muscles, or the scapular portion of the deltoid.

     But as the supra-spinatus muscle is attached along with the
infra-spinatus and teres minor to the trochanter major while the
scapular portion of the deltoid is attached to the deltoid surface,
which again is continuous with the great tuberosity by the anterior
margin of the bicepital groove ; and as we have already seen that
this deltoid surface would be forced upwards and inwards, and
backwards, into the position of the lesser trochanter of the femur,

454                                          APPENDIX.

if the brachialis anticus were developed to the same extent as the

vasti and crureus ; the iliacus internus, in its origin, attachment, and

relations to the pubes, exactly corresponds in its relations to those

of the scapular portion of deltoid, if the bones of the shoulder were

made to assume the relative positions of those of the pelvis. The

homologue of the posterior margin of the spine of the scapula,

widened and hollowed out, forms, in this manner, the anterior sur

face of the iliac bone, and the homologue of the scapular portion

of the deltoid passes forward over and in front of the homologue

of the clavicle.

     With reference to the homologue of the psoas in the shoulder,

it will at once suggest itself to the comparative anatomist, that the

psoas is represented by the levator humeri, more particularly by

that portion of it which is connected to the transverse processes of
the cervical vertebrae. In the feline Carnivora the levator humeri

passes down, in connection with the scapular portion of the deltoid,

in front of the clavicle, and reproduces in this manner an arrange

ment in the shoulder exactly similar to that of the psoas, iliacus,

and pubis, in the posterior limb. It is also to be observed, that

the breadth of the anterior surface of the ilium                         in the greater
     a
                                           it

                                             it

                                                                    is,
number of Mammalia, diminished so much as frequently to present

the form of margin, while in the bird has disappeared alto

gether, as well as the muscle to which gives origin.

   If the iliacus internus be the homologue of the scapular portion

of the deltoid, then we are at once led to the homology between

the pectineus and adductor longus in the posterior limb, and the

clavicular portion of the deltoid, and the clavicular portion of the

great pectoral in the anterior limb.

     The pectineus and the adductor longus pass from the pelvic

representative of the clavicle to the line leading down from the

is
            is

                                    ;
                                      a

                                        is,
lesser trochanter that from the attachment of the homologue of

the scapular portion of the deltoid.

    It to be observed that the great tuberosity of the humerus

the upper part of ridge, which, extending down as the anterior

lip of the bicepital groove, widens out into the deltoid surface.

     Now, as the attachment of both portions of the deltoid, and also

of tho great pectoral muscle, have been shown to have their homo

logue in the thigh-bone, forced to the inner and back part of that

                             APPENDIX.  455

bono, it will also be observed that the attachments of the homo-

logues of the inferior spinatus and teres minor retain their attach

ments to the great trochanter.

    It becomes, therefore, an important question to determine the

homologies of the humeral tuberosities and femoral trochanters.
With this view it is to be observed, that as the obturator internus

would appear to be the real homologue of the subscapularis, and

as the tendon of the obturator internus is attached to the fore-part

of the upper margin of the trochanter major, it follows, that if we

are to be guided as to the homologies of the tuberosities and tro

chanter by the principal homologous muscles connected with them,

the trochanter major, instead of being, as is usually supposed, the

greater tuberosity of the humerus, must be the homologue of the

lesser tuberosity, and the lesser trochanter the real homologue of
Ifthe great tuberosity.
                         this be admitted, then we must also admit

that the homologue of the centre of ossification of the greater tuber

osity of the humerus has been forced downwards, inwards, and

backwards, in the direction of the anterior intertrochanteric line,

and along with the linear attachment of the clavicular portions of

the deltoid and great pectoral, assumed positions on the inner and

posterior aspects of the thigh-bone. For physiological ends the

attachments of the homologues of the inferior spinatus and teres

minor retain their position at the outer and upper part of the bone ;

and, in consequence of the homologue of the lesser tuberosity

having passed upwards and outwards, so as to take the position of

the homologue of the greater tuberosity, these two muscles are

secondarily attached to it.

        V.--ACTION OF THE POPLITEUS MUSCLE.

     This muscle takes its origin below from the tibia and the dense
fascia-like prolongation of the semi-membranosus tendon, which

covers it. It passes obliquely upwards, forwards, and outwards, to

the depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the
femur. Its opposite points of attachment are nearer one another
in the extended than in the flexed condition of the limb. Hence
the muscle acts as an extensor, and not, as is usually stated, as a

456 APPENDIX.

flexor muscle. From the peculiar spiral form of the articular surfaces,
when the knee-joint is fully extended the movement of flexion is
initiated by the action of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi-tendinosus,

which slightly rotate the leg and foot inwards. --(See vol. iL p. 222.)

Similarly, when the joint is fully flexed, the movement of extension
is initiated by the action of the popliteus muscle, which brings the
joint into the horizontal position.

              INDEX TO VOL. I.

Aberckohbie (Dr.), 132                    man, what                 271 agency, its effects
Absorption of one science by another,     ;
                                                            is,
                                                                      ;

                                                                                             8
                                          on the surface of the globe, 21

302                                       Animality, nature of, 207, 214

Acland (Professor) of Oxford, Goodsir     Animals, their habits studied by Goodsir,
   visits, 171
                                              57 and vegetables specially created
Adams (Dr. Francis) of Banchory, 36          for man's use as food, 217
Address delivered to the graduates in
                                          Ankle-joint of man and ape compared,
    medicine, August 1, 1859, when
                                              230, 231
Professor Goodsir acted aa Promoter,
                                          "Annals of anatomy and physiology,"

    323, 335                                  189
Addresses of Goodsir as a president of    Annelids, their dorsal vessel homologous

    various societies, 186, 336-348          with the heart and primitive aorta of

Advantages of erect position to man,      vertebrataj 141

    241, 242                              Annihilable, matter cannot be conceived
.£gean Sea collection, made by Forbes,
                                          of as, 222

108                                       Anstruther, many of the population fell

^Esthetic Club of Edinburgh, 142, 143     at Kilsyth and Sheriffmuir in the

Agansiz visits Lothian Street, 104        cause of the Covenanters,                       (Easter),
Agricultural matters, Goodsir frequently                                 ;4
                                          its population, etc.,                    ;3
   consulted on, 134                                                         native place of
                                          Sr. Chalmers, the poet Termant, and

Alcirwe rotunda found in Orkney, 53       Professor Goodsir,                 its Burgh and
                                                                         ;5
Alcohol in the brain of drunkards, 131                                                 ;
                                          Grammar Schools, 12, 13 Goodsir

Alimentary canal of mammalia, speci       joins his father in practice at, 34, 35

mens of, 165                              Anthropologists apt to neglect mental

Alison (Rev. Archibald), 10 ; (Professor  Apsec--ienhcaen, d  267,  268  on  imperfect          hand,
   Wm. Pulteney), 10 ; Goodsir demon                            of  ape
   strates anatomy of cuttle-fish to, 28
                                              239, 240
Amphioxut lanceolalus, memoir on its
                                          Apes corporeally and psychically distinct
   anatomy, 371, 393                         from man, 265 all related to each
"Anatomical and pathological observa                                ;

   tions," 189                            other, 283

                                          Apparatus (philosophical), Goodsir's

Anatomical and Physiological Society,         keenness after, 169, 170, 172
                                          Aquaria and vivaria at 21 Lothian Street,
Goodsir chosen one of the Vice-Pre

   sidents of, 24, 78                         98
Anatomical chair of Edinburgh, contest    Arabian horse from Duke of Hamilton,

   for, 118 ; preparations, art arose in      135
                                          Area for man the entire globe, 21 ori
   Holland, 853
Anatomy the hobby of Goodsir when a          ginal area north temperate zone, 216
                                          Arm in man, 236

                                          Arnold (Professor) milk-tooth sacs how
                                              formed, 42, 43

                                          Arthur (John), janitor to Professor
                                              Goodsir, 162, 163

                                          Articular surfaces at end of bone, Good-
                                              sir's view of, 151
                                                              is is
                                                                                                    ;5

student, 23 ; impulse derived        by
medicine from, 83, 84

Angular element prevalent in structure,

178, 180

Animal body might be teleogically com

plete, but morphologically incomplete,
183 ; all forms below man, 207 J in

458                                         INDEX.

Asynchronism of the auricular contrac                           sir, secretary of, 75 ; vice-president,
   tions in the reptilian heart, 443-445
                                                                 76
Austrian Government ask from Goodsir
                                                             Botany, his taste for, revived, 76
    advice for the natural history equip                     Bowman on the structure and use of

    ment of the Novara, 173                                     the Malpighian bodies of the kidney,
Autopsy of Professor Goodsir by Dr.
                                                                 115
    Chiene and Mr. Stirling, 195
                                                             Brain of man in geometrical proportions
Baird (Principal) employs Barclay at                            and mass, superior, 184 ; of Pro
                                                                fessor Goodsir, 195 ; complex struc
    Bo'ness, 25                                                 ture of, 291 ; action in, 296
Balancing body when standing on one
                                                             Brewster (Sir David), 45, 49 ; his
    leg, 227                                                     opinion of Goodsir, 54 ; review of
Balamts lintinnabuhim, paper on the                              Goethe's soientilic biography, 156 ;
                                                                keen vision, instance of, 176
    larvae  of, 75      J.  H.),  obituary  notice
Balfour     (Professor                                       British Association, Goodsir's first at

of Goodsir, 76, 197 ; at 21 Lothian                              tendance and paper at, 35, 36 ; at
                                                                 Glasgow in 1840, paper by Goodsir
    Street, 104                                                  and Forbes, 72 ; meeting at Edin
                                                                 burgh in 1850, president of physio
Barclay (Dr. John) anecdote of, 25 ; his                         logical and zoological section, 190
   collection and pupils, 363, 364                           Brotherhood of Friends of Truth, 60, 61
                                                             Brown (Dr. John), assistant of Dr.
Barnacle, separate sexual system of,                            Cullen, 16 ; (Dr. John), member of
                                                                 ^Esthetic Club, 142 ; (Robert), on
106                                                             nucleus of vegetable celL 85. (Dr.
                                                                 Samuel), as a chemical philosopher
Barrow, at Kingsmuir, opened, 47                                 and thinker, 68, 69 ; at 21 Lothian
                                                                 Street, 104, 106
Barry (Dr. Martin), researches of, in                        Brunonian system not favoured in Bri
histology and embryology, 67, 68 ;                               tain, 16
                                                             Brute, psychical essence in, 295
discoverer of parent              "ceInlls, tit1u1t4es;   a  Burial-place of Professor Goodsir, 194
candidate for chair of                                   of  Burke's skin made into a tobacco-poueh,

Medicine," 121 ; letter to Goodsir on                            163
fate of his brother, 150
                                                             Burns (Allan) as a lecturer, surgeon, and
Basement membrane of Bowman, 115                                anatomist, 359, 362

Beale (Dr. ) germinal matter, 90                             Busk (George) on parasitic growths,
Beauty, on the natural principles of,

143

Bee, instinct of, 316

Bell (Sir Charles), models of ulcers, 23 ;
   discovery of the functions of the
   nerves, 86 ; first settling in London,

    100

Bennett (Dr. J. H.), professor of the

   Institutes of Medicine, 33 ; at 21

   Lothian Street, 105                                       Cecum, on changes produced in the,
Bereiss (Professor) collected Lieberkiihn's
                                                             by ulcers, eta, 76
   injections and specimens, 170                             Cancer mamas and C. bernhardus, joint
Berlin, his friends and studies at, 169
                                                             paper on their metamorphoses,         by
                                                             John and Harry Goodsir, 75
Beroe pileus and new species, anatomy
   of, 51                                                    CapreUa, paper on new species of, 75

Bible to be studied, Goodsir's advice to                     Carpenter (Dr.), articles on secretion in

   his brother, 34      Generate,  " 86;    each             Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physi
Bichat, "Anatomie
                                                             "ology, 115 ; once a candidate for chair
special tissue has a physiological pro
perty of its own, 112 ; his brain                            of Institutes of Medicine," 121

                                                             Carus, a work of, gives first impetus to

remarkably non-symmetrical, 184                              Goodsir's researches in developmental

Biological discovery in Germany, 65                          anatomy, 24 ; acknowledges his in

Blandin on milk-teeth, 41                                    debtedness to Goodsir, 162

Bone, sections of, made to investigate                       Casts of dissections made by Goodsir,

   arrangement of fibres, 175                                23, 34
BoneUia, two species, natives of Medi
                                                             Casts of the layers of muscles, 131

terranean, 426                                               Cat and eagle, 67, 58

Books, the last that he studied, 193                         Catopterus, genus of fossil fishes, de

Botanical Society of Edinburgh, Good-                        scribed by Goodsir, 49

INDEX.                                       459

Cell or primitive organic corpuscle, dis     Comparative anatomy, constant refer
    covery of, 84, 85 ; various views and       ences to, 12S, much studied by Good-
   theories of philosophers on formation        sir, 137
    of, 89 ; Goodsir's observations, 90-95
                                             Comparative Psychology, 308
Cells perform the process of secretion,      Complete and incomplete, meaning of

    115                                          the expressions, 210
                                             Completeness of human structure, 207
Cell-genesis, the first ray of biological    Conditions of life, 207
                                             Connective tissue of the kidney, 116
   discovery, 65 ; Barry's development       Conscious element of animal, 208, 209 ;

   of, 67                                       its peculiarity, 212, 213 ; principle
Centre of gravity in man and in animals,        in man, how it differs from that of
                                                 animal, 214
   226 ; of absolute knowledge, 300
Centres of nutrition, what Goodsir meant     Consciousness, animals have a principle
                                                 allied to that of man, 211 ; of man
    by the term, 90 ; paper on, 114              self-conscious of animal instinctive,
Cephalopodous molluscs, peculiarities in
                                                 222
     eye of, 51
Cetacea, Goodsir studied, 137                Contemporaries, Goodsir's relations with,
Chalmers (Dr. ), native of Anstruther, 5 ;
                                                 189
    Professor of Moral Philosophy at St.
   Andrews, 13                               Continent, Goodsir goes to Continent for
Chameleon, on the action of its tongue, 33      his health, 149, 150
Charlotte Street, Goodsir's residence in,
                                             Conversation of Professor Goodsir, 201
    187                                      Cormack (Dr.) and the Monthly Medical
Chemical force in living organisms, 347
Chemico-physiological inquiries, Goodsir        Journal, 64

   desirous of making, 111                   Cornceres quarry near Anstruther, Fossil
Chemistry, young Goodsir's successful            fishes from, 49, 50

    study of, 16                             Corporeal constitution of man, how regu
Cheselden's operations not empirical, 352       lated, 217 ; and physical elements of
Child, acquisition of language by, 252,         organisation, 290

     254                                     Correspondents of Professor Goodsir,

Chimpansee, lips in, 250                         188, 189
Christian Faith, anatomists not opposed      Corymorpha nutans found in Orkney, 52
                                             Cosmic atoms and the microscope, 84
    to, 146                                  Couch on Amphioxus lanceolatus, 373
                                             Course of lectures, altered each year, 129
Christianity, influence of on man, 185 ;     Covenanters, Fife a cherished locality
    and the knowledge of God's laws in
   nature, 220 ; what it has done for            of, 3
                                             Cow, embryo of, possesses germs of canine
    science, 285
                                                 and upper incisive teeth, 44
Christison (Professor), 16 ; his lectures,   Creation, man can only conceive creation

     29                                          to be the evolution of existence, 222
                                             Crustacea, dorsal vessel homologous with
Cilia, paper on, 49
Ciliograda, papers on, by Goodsir and            heart and primitive aorta of vertebrata,

    Forbes, 53, 72                               141
Claims of Professor Goodsir as to his
                                             Crystallography, fundamental forms
    position in the History of Science, 200      viewed by the light of, 176, 179
Clausilvi of Arthur's Seat, Goodsir shows
                                             Cupar, Literary and Antiquarian Society,
    Edward Forbes how to dissect it, 32          46 ; paper on animals collected near
Cleland (Professor), opinion of Professor        Anstruther, 51

    Goodsir's training, etc., 161            Curatorship of Museum of Medical Fa
Climate, how changed by human agency,            culty offered to and accepted by Good-
                                                 sir, 109 ; report on progress, 114
     213
                                             Curvatures of animal vertebral column,
Clupeidce investigated by Goodsir, 137,
                                                 225, 226
     169                                     Cutaneous muscular system in man, 243

Coalescence of sciences, some easy, others        244 ; nerves, 245
    difficult, 286                           Cuttle-fish, on the eye of, 51, 52 ; speci

Cochlea controlling action of larynx, 249        mens of its anatomy in Goodsir's mu
College of Surgeons, Goodsir becomes a
                                                  seum, 164
    fellow, 133
Column (vertebral), in man cut by its

    own axis in five points, 225

460 INDEX.

Cuvier (Baron) compared with John           Dyce, cartoon of the Judgment of Solo
    Hunter, 360, 361                           mon presented by Goodsir to Royal
                                               Scottish Academy, 145
Cyprinvs auratus, fungus on gills of, 76

Dallas (K. S), member of ^Esthetic club,    Eagle and its prey, 57, 58
                                            Ear in man, 248, 249
    143                                     Earth's whole surface intended for man,

Dalyell (Sir J. G.), corresponds with           216

    Goodsir on natural hUtory, 35

Day (Professor), 97 ; a resident at 21 Ecclesiastical government in Scotland,165

Lothian- Street, 105                        Echinodermata, on their blood and water-

Dean Cemetery, Goodsir's burial-place,      vascular system, 139 ; specimens illus

194 ; death, 194                            trating their anatomy in Goodsir's

Degraded form of man, savage, 276           museum, 164
Demonstrator of anatomy, Goodsir ap Echiurus vulgaris, 74, 427-433
                                            Economy of man originally more perfect,
pointed, 114

Dentistry, tired of, 21, 22                 278 ; of the animal continuous, 284

Descriptive anatomy, 352                    Edinburgh, its position, environs, etc.,

Development (full) of man's material        1-3

economy, how attained, 219                  Elbow-joint in animals cannot be fully

Dick's (Professor) pupils examined by       extended or fully flexed, 237

Goodsir for diploma as veterinary Electrical fishes studied by Goodsir,

surgeons, 134                               137, 169 ; organs of fishes, specimens

Dignity of the human body, propositions     of, in museum, 164

for his ten lectures on, 207, 285           Elements in specific constitution, 210
Dipkyllidia, probable new speeies of Elephant, notes on its myology, 446-451
from Firth of Forth, 424
                                            Ellisiaflos maris, 52
Disease, man's liability to disease in Emotional affections in man and animal

timately related to neglect of the          222, 223

dictates of his higher principle, 279, Encyclopadia Britannica, 15

830 Entozoon, a new cestoid described by

Disputatious tone of men educated at        Professor Goodsir, 401-404

Edinburgh noticed by Benjamin Epochs in science, what men owe to, 87

Franklin, 102                               Erect position in man, Goodsir's views,

Dissecting rooms, extension and im          183, 184, 224-231

provement of, 123                           Erineus splendtns, paper on, 75

Dissecting table, Goodsir's place, 130      Essence of humanity, 215-223

Dissection (true) an object of wonder Eulogia of Professor Goodsir, 196-198
and beauty, 24                              Eustachius on milk-teeth, 41

Distuma hepatica, on its structure, 140 Evolution from within outwards, 294

Doctors (country), who have extended Experimental research, 303, 305

   the boundary of literature and science,  Extension of human race, how provided
   36 ; country Fife doctors mode of
   practice in last century, 8                "for, 215                    Queen's
Dominion of man over the plants and
                                            Extra-mural lecturers and the

                                            College," 63
animals intended by the Creator, Eye of cuttle-fish, on, 51, 52 ; in man,

    216                                     247, 248 ; of infant, 319-321

Dornoch Firth, paper on the natural
features of, 75 ; zoology of, exa Falconer (Dr. Hugh) opinion of Goodsir's
mined by Goodsir, 108                       morphology, 161

Drummond (Dr.), assistant to Goodsir, Fallati (Dr.) of Wildbad, 150
   125 ; appointed to a situation in Faraday's mind could guide into one

Hunterian Museum, 128                       channel the different departments of

Drunkard's body keeping free from de        his subjeot, 286

composition for thirty days, 131            Fellowships proposed to be established,

Duncan (Dr. James), 64                      165

Duration, origin of our conception of, Fellowship in honour of Professor Good-

221 sir, 168

Duties and instinctive actions, 274         Fergusson (Sir William, Bart.) demon
Duverney on milk teeth, 41                     strator to Dr. Knox, 28

INDEX.                                                                                          461

Fever : on continued fever and its treat        covered by Purkinje, 84 ; centres,
                                                what Goodsir meant by the term, 90 ;
     ment, etc., 77                                                   of Goodsir, 115
Fife, sketch of its history, 3, 4               Glombeem--brtahnee  entire globe the area  for  man,
Fingers, movements of, 238
                                                215
Firth of Forth, dredgings in, 46
Fishes, skeletons and skins well preserved      Goethe, the founder of animal morpho
                                                logy, 154, 155; Goodsir's estimate of
    by Goodsir, 46
"Flesh" in revealed record, 271                 his speculations, 156
Flower on permanent and milk-teeth, 41
Folds of human skin, 244                        Goodsirs of Fife, their family history,
Follicular stage of dentition, on, 38, 40
Food of early Fife settlers inferred from       5-7

    teeth, 47 ; resources of and their ex       Goodsir (Dr. John) the Professor's grand
    tent indicated to man, 217                  father, 7-9 ; (Archibald) youngest bro
Foot in man, peculiarities in its construc      ther  of Professor, 10 ;   (Miss Jane),
    tion, 229 ; human foot and apes'            192   : (Professor John),  his birth, 9 ;        9,
                                                                                                his
    compared, 240, 241
Forbes (Lord President Duncan) 9 ;              biography 11, 203 ; anatomical and pa

    letters of, 10 ; Grizzel, 9 ; (Edward),     thological observations, 90 ; appointed
    Goodsir shows him how to dissect a          demonstrator of anatomy to Professor
    snail, 32 ; the maga club and its literary
    organ, 59 ; as Archimagus, 61 ; his         Munro, 114 ; lectures at Philosophi
    fellowship with Goodsir, 61, 62 ; love      cal Institution, 114; elected professor
    of fun, 73 ; cruising in Mediterranean,     of anatomy, 121 ; elected Fellow of
    wishes Goodsir with him, 107 ; death
    of, 166, Goodsir expected to become         the Royal Society, London, 121 ; lec
    his biographer, 166, 167 ; dredges two
    specimens of Amphioxua on the east          tures on natural history for Professor
    coast of Isle of Man, 375
Force and power, how they differ, 270           Jameson in 1853, 146 ; facility in
Forces of organisation determined by the
    indwelling power of the psyche, 270         tracing lines and facets on surfaces,
Forearm in man and ape compared, 237
Forms of living bodies and their parts,         175 ; on science and Christianity, his
                                                views, 185, 285 ; his various homes,
    293, 294                                    187 ; his illness, 191 ; his death
Fossil fishes presented to Literary and
                                                and funeral, 194, autopsy of, 195;
    Philosophical Society, 46 ; found at        fellowship in honour of him, 198 :
    Cornceres quarry, 49
Fragmentary character of human know             (Rev. Joseph Taylor), 9 ; on Edward
                                                Forbes and John Goodsir, 32 ; John
    ledge, 301
Franklin expedition, brother Harry joins        advises him to make the Bible his

   it, 9, 101 ; Goodsir long hoped for the      main study, 34 ; on his brother's
   return of, 150
Friends of Goodsir, 31 ; funeral, 194           natural gifts, 34 : (Harry) joins Frank
Fungus on gills of gold fish, paper on, 76
Furthering the Creator's plan, 209              lin's expedition, 9 ; animals collected
Fyfe (Mr. ) his labours with the scalpel,
    pencil, and graver, 362, 363                near Anstruther, 51 ; capacity in which

Galen and his anatomical pursuits, 84           he went out on Franklin's expedition,
Gasteropod mollusc from the Firth of
                                                101 ; succeeds his brother at College
    Forth, undescribed form of, 421, 424        oi Surgeons, 109 ; stuffing salmon for
Geometry applied to anatomy, Goodsir's          his brother, 111 : (Robert) sails twice
                                                to Arctic Regions, 9 : (Thomas), anec
    studies in, 151
                                                dote of, 6.
George Square, removes to, 187
German language and literature, con             Graham (Dr.), Professor of Botany, 31
                                                "Grand gore," edicts against, 47
   tinued study of, 168
Germans, their discoveries in biology, 85       Grant (Dr.), of University College, a
Germinal vesicle in ovary of birds, dis            pupil of Barclay's, 364
                                                Gregory (Dr. John and Dr. James), 10
                                                Gruby of Vienna, history of parasitic

                                                growths, 113

                                                Guerin (Mr.) gets Tcthea on coast of
                                                Spitzbergen, 405

                                                Guillot questions accuracy of some of

                                                Goodsir's observations on teeth, 43

                                                Gulliver, edition of Hewson's works, etc.,

                                                88

                                                Qyvmmhynchua horridus, parasite on

                                                sun-fish, 74 ; description of, 401, 404

                                                Haeckel (Professor), " Protogenes," 95

462                                 INDEX.

Haemal arch, Goodsir did not assent to                                                                     Hip-joint in man and quadrupeds, 228
    Owen's view, 158                                                                                       Histology, progress of, 84, 96 ; German

Hair (Dr.), dissections of muscular fibres,                                                                    labourers in, 366
                                                                                                           History indicates north temperate zone
    175
                                                                                                              as original area of man, 215
Hair in man, its distribution and charac                                                                   Holidays, how Goodsir spent his, 16",

    ter, 244, 245                                                                                              202

Hall (Dr. Marshall) on excito-motory                                                                       Hololhxirwe, on the respiration of, 140
Ha3Eslly5ess4srtae;myosn,h,"isM83"o65n3Erloe;'ms "e"nIcEtoadninPehbsyusrAiognlhoagtioaMme eicdCaicosa,r"l  Home of the Goodsirs at 21 Lothian

   poris Humani," 355 ; 190 experiments                                                                       Street, with its occupants, 97 ; his
   to determine muscular irritability, 68                                                                     other places of residence, 187
Hallet appointed to a situation in                                                                         Hope (Dr.) Thomas, Professor of Che
   Hunterian Museum, 128 ; transcribes                                                                        mistry, 31
   Goodsir's lectures on the invertebrata,                                                                 Horatian Maxim on Goodsir's "Dissect
                                                                                                              ing-room Note-book," 125
                                                                                                           Horizontal axis of vertebral column in

    138                                                                                                    quadrupeds, 225

Hamilton, jun. (Dr.), 103 ; (Sir William)                                                                  Human agency, its positive effects on the
   on the thought of creation, 222 ; on                                                                    globe, 218 ; changes it can effect,

    learned ignorance, 301                                                                                 219 ; body, Goodsir's views on its
Hand of man the only perfect hand, 238,                                                                    teleological and morphological com

   can be hollowed into a cup or grasp a                                                                   pleteness, 183 ; constitution, what n
   sphere, 239 ; formed to act under and                                                                   involved in      and what
   for human thought, 321                                                                                               ; it,                       secures
Handyside (Dr.), candidate for chair of                                                                                                      in it
                                                                                                           for man, 220 science and the infal

                                                                                                           lible Pruuma, 127

anatomy, 121                                                                                               Humanity, what its actual history is,

Hannover (Dr.) on the construction and                                                                         223
   use of the microscope, translation re
    vised by Goodsir, 166                                                                                  Hunter (John) and bis works anatomy,
                                                                                                               356, 361, 362
Harting (Professor) on Orthagoriscus
ozodura, referred to, 396                                                                                  Hunter (Dr. William), his influence on
                                                                                                              anatomy and physiology, 355
Haunch of man and mammal, 227
                                                                                                           Hunterian Medical Society, 64
Hawyor(kD."RG,)e,omasesitsrtiecdal  by Goodsir in his
                                    Beauty of the Hu                                                       Huxley (Professor) on the teeth and
                                                                                                              hairs, 38 opinion of Goodsir's mor
                                                                                                              phology, 161 lectures on relation of
                                                                                                              man to lower animals, 185 account
                                                                                                              of Australian Tethea, 415

                                                                                                           Hypo-sulphites counteract the Sarcina
                                                                                                              ventriculi, 113
man Figure," 143 ; death of, 145 ;                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                  ;
harmonic angles, 180                                                                                                                        ;

Head, on the morphological constitution

of the skeleton of the vertebrate head,

158

Health of Goodsir, 149                                                                                     Hyperoodon dalei, paper on, 752
Heirlooms of the Goodsirs and Edward                                                                       Hyrtl (Professor), Goodsir works with

    Forbes, 101                                                                                                him at Vienna, 167
Henderson (Dr. William), 64, 65 ; he and
                                                                                                           Idealistic opinions of physiologists,
  ^Goodsir work together, 66
Henle and Valentin on the epithelium                                                                            290
                                                                                                           Immaterial principle, the agency which
    and animal textures, 85
Herrissant on milk-teeth, 41                                                                                   determines the actions and regulates
Herring shoal preceded by vast accumu                                                                          the processes of the corporeal frame,

    lation of minute marine animals, 75                                                                         269
Herring and sprat, difference between,                                                                     Immediate instruments, organs of sense

     108                                                                                                       in animals, 21
                                                                                                           Individual organism from pre-existing
Herschel (Sir John) on hypo-sulphites,
                                                                                                               parents, 294
    113                                                                                                    Influences detrimental to life, how-
Hewson (William) on central particle
                                                                                                              guarded against, 217
   of blood, 85                                                                                            Innes (Mr.) as an anatomist, 362
Higher principle of man to control ani                                                                     Insanity, Bichat's opinion that want of

   mal instincts, 220, 221                                                                                    symmetry in two sides of cerebrum
Highland and Agricultural Society,                                                                            was its cause, 184

   Goodsir a member, 134

         INDEX.                                                                         463

Insects, dorsal vessel homologous with       lectureship, 62 ; his catalogue of
   heart and primitive aorta of verte-
   brata,141                                 collection of College of Surgeons, 80 ;

Instinct, definition of the term, 214 ;      at 21 Lothian Street holding forth on

    and consciousness, 310-316               his African experiences, and discussing
Instinctive acts of the animal, 2S3 ;
                                             questions with Samuel Brown, 104 ;
   consciousness, essential characters of
   animality to be found in, 210             distinguished pupils of, 142 ; wishes
Institutes of Medicine chair, candidates
   for, 120, 121                             Goodsir to engage with him in a
Instruments (philosophical), Goodsir's
    endeavour to procure the best, 172       q14u2ar;te"rlyMawnourakl  on   anatomical  science,
Integument and organs of sense and                                      of   Anatomy,"    Good-
    speech in man, 243-255
Intelligence, 308 ; first stage in its          sir's opinion of, 142
    evolution, 309                           Kolliker supports Goodsir's views on
Intermaxillary bone in human skull,
    how Goethe inferred its existence,           teeth, 43

    415                                      Kowalevsky and Owsjannikow on Am
Internal parasites, vegetable as well as
                                             phioxus, 392, 393
    animal, 113
Intestinal lesions observed by Goodsir,      Labour, daily, dogged, downright, 203
                                             Lancelot, or Amphioxus lanceolatus,
    66 ; his preparations, 80
Invertebrate, lectures on their compara         paper on, 371-393
                                             Language, its development, a remark
    tive anatomy, 138
Tstiopterus, genus of fossil fishes, 50         able part of the human constitution,
Italian literature, Goodsir studies, 169        220 ; in brute a succession of signs,
                                                313 ; and the number of articulate
Jacko, the monkey, and his doings, 97,
                                                 sounds, 251
     98
                                             Lantern of Grandfather John, 101
Jaguar, supra-condyloid foramen of, 27       Laplace, his saying on his deathbed, 87 ;
Jalabert (M.) and the ribbon of the
                                                 physico-chemical actions in living
    Brotherhood of Friends of Truth, 60
Jameson (Professor), 29, 30 ; seeks in           bodies, 112

    troduction to and is kind to Goodsir,    Largo, Dr. John Goodsir settles at, 7,
    45 ; writes to Goodsir to make col
    lections for the museum, and to              8
    write a paper for Wernerian Society,
    63 ; Goodsir lectures on natural         Larynx in man, its simplicity and com
    history for, 146, 147
Johnston (Dr. George), of Berwick, 36 ;          pleteness, 249
    on Tethea cranium, 414                   Lavoisier explained nature of chemical
Joints, their movements of a spiral
     character, 152                              phenomena in organisms, 112
Jourdain on milk-teeth, 41                   Lectures at College of Surgeons, 80-81 ;
Judgment, man conscious of the faculty,
     221                                         of Professor Goodsir, their influence on
                                                 his pupils, 201 ; popularity 125
Kelland (Professor), member of .(Es          Leg of man, peculiarities of, 229
                                             Leslie (Sir John), a native of Largo, 15 ;
    thetic Club, 142                             organic aspect of logarithmic spiral,
Kingsmuir barrow examined, 47
Knee-joint, on movements of, 152                  180
Knox, John, in Fife, 3
Knox (Dr.), Goodsir attends his lectures,    Life and organisation, lecture at Roya
                                                 Medical Society in 1856, 286-322
    19 ; makes skeleton of pike for, 23 ;
    invites Goodsir to be vice-president of  Limax lanceolatus, Pallas first describes
    Anatomical and Physiological Society,        the Amphioxus under that name, 372

     24 ; as a teacher, 25-28 ; wishes       Limb (upper), regarded by Goodsir as
                                                 an appendage of the lower part of the
   Goodsir to join him in the anatomical         neck, 157 ; in man, principles of its

                                                 completeness,* 184
                                             Limbs, notes on the morphology of the

                                                 muscles of, 452-455

                                             Limnwus involutus, anatomy of, 75
                                             Linguistic roots and the adaptability of

                                                 the mechanism of speech for their

                                                 production, 251
                                             Lips of man and chimpansee, 250
                                             Lister's improvement of microscopic

                                                 glasses, 365
                                             Liver of sunfish, worm infesting, 401

                                                 and on kidney, 78

VOL. I.  2H

464                                INDEX.

Living organism, relations of, 292, 293        used in the investigation of man's
Lizars, appointed to a post in Hunterian
                                                  position, 267                                               of the
    Museum, 128                                Mechanics, young Goodsir fond

Logarithmic spiral in nature, 180 ; line          study of, 16
    on his obelisk, 194                        Mechanism of the joints, 151

Lonsdale (Dr.), "Life of Professor             Meckels, the two, 357-359
                                               Meckel on muscle of sun-fish, 399
   Goodsir," 1-203 ; remark of Dr. Knox        Mediate instruments, organs of sense in
    to, 26 ; on the termination of the
                                               man, 212
    nerves, 152
Lothian Street (21) domicile of Goodsir,       Mediterranean, Forbes cruising in, 107

    Forbes, etc., 97 ; pets at, 98 ; visitors  Melville (Professor) as an assistant to
                                                  Goodsir, 163
    to, 104-106
                                               Metaphysical inquiry, 305
Louis and Chomel, on intestinal lesions        Meyer, his labours on the mechanism of

   described by, 66                               the joints, 152
Love of science communicated by Good-          Microscope, importance of, in anatomi

   sir to pupils, 128                             cal researches, 84, 88 shows uni
Lumbar curve in man, 225 ; not in
                                                  formity of character in growth and
   animals, 226                                   construction of tissues, 85 various
Lumhricus tkalnssema of Pallas (Spici-            kinds used by different anatomists,
                                                  88 demonstrations of structure under,
   legia Zoologica), 426
Lymphatics, researches of Monro se                at Edinburgh University, 124, 125
                                                  when to be used by the anatomical
    cundum on, 357                             ;
                                                                                      ;

                                                                                              ;
                                                                                                               ;

MACGUxmtAY (Professor), how he                    student, 367
   obtained his chair in Aberdeen, 78,         Microscopic researches of Hooke and

79                                                Lceuwenhoeck, 365

Mackenzie (Dr. Joshua), father of Henry        Milk-teeth opinions of anatomists on,
   Mackenzie, 10 ; (Mr.) resigns curator-
   ship of Anatomical Museum, 114                  41
Mackintosh (Dr. John), lectures
   tice of physic, 29 ; (Dr.     on prac       Mind, its spiritual nature confirmed by
                                                  physiology, 290 latent in the em
                                 W. C),                   ;

anatomy of Pelonaia comujala, 439                 bryo, 295
                                               Mirbel on physiology of plants, 85
Macvicar (Dr.) of Moffat, lectures of, on      Mohl on the primordial utricle, 94
   natural history, attended by young
                                               MMooilrars(D--r.)peocfuMliaursitsyelboufrghan, t3e6rior molar
Goodsir, 14

Maga Club, Goodsir elected a member,           40

59                                             Monkey, pet, of Goodsir's, 97, 98

Malaplcrurus, anatomy of new species,          Monro (John) of Milton, father of Dr.
                                               Monro, jyrimus, 10
   78 ; specimens of, sent to Berlin, 169      Monro, primus, and his influence,
Man, his original area in north temperate
                                               352-354    secundus, researches of,
   region, 183 ; economy and spheres of                 ;;
   action, 215 ; by virtue of spiritual                        ;
   principle excluded from scale of mere
   animal being, 275 ; excluded by his                                           ;
   completeness, from all mere animal                                                                       ;
                                               355, 357 fortius, on morbid ana

                                               tomy, 362

                                               Moral science and the Revealed Record

forms, 283                                        recognise spiritual element, 277
                                               Morphological laws, 155 perfection far
Manifestations of three states of con
                 ·                                distant, 159 anatomy defined, 263
sciousness, 211
                                                  should be kept distinct, 264
Manu-ped or foot-hand of ape, 230              Morphology of recent growth, 289
                                               Morphology of the muscles, 451-455
Manx beauties, Edward Forbes's draw            Mortality of psyche in brute, unphilo-

    ings of, 73                                   sophical to entertain question, 298
                                               Mother of Professor Goodsir, 11 teaches
Markings on the palm of the hand of       ib
   man and the chimpansee, 174
                                                                 a
Material force (external), man avails                                       ;
   himself of 219
                                                                                                           ;
Materialistic tendencies of physiologists,it,     him to draw, 14
                                               Motion, condition of thought, 222

                                               Mouth, how its structure affects speech,

290                                                250
                                               Muller on cellular structure of chorda
Mathematical research, 303-305
Matter and mind, how they are to               dorsalis, 85 Goodsir's acquaintance

                                              INDEX.                                    465

   with, 169 ; influence of his intellect               scientific circumnavigation of the

   on physiological research, 287 ; on                  globe, 173

   Amphioxus kmceolalus, 373                            Nucleated cell the great agent in ab

Muscles, a complete dissection of, 131 ;                sorption, nutrition, and secretion,
   of vertebra and trunk in man, 226 ;                  115

   of haunch, 227 ; of elephant, 446- Numbers of students at his classes,
   451 ; notes on the general morpho
                                                        129

   logy of, 451, 452 ; notes on the mor                 Nutrition the same as secretion, 115
                                                        Oblique axis of vertebral column in
   phology of the muscles of the limbs,
   452-455 ; action of the popliteus

   muscle, 455                                          apes when standing, and in birds,

Muscular system of man, on the ar                       225

   rangements of the fibres and fasciculi, Obliquities and oblique overlappings,

   174, 175                                             178, 179

Museum of University of Edinburgh, Observational research, 303, 305
   45 ; Goodsir forms a natural history Oineromaths and their symbols, 59, 60
   museum, 46 ; of Royal College of Oken's programm, 155
   Surgeons, 80-83 ; formed by Goodsir Old and odd medical lecturers in Edin
   and his assistants, 162-165 ; excel
                                                        burgh, 103

   lence of specimens in Goodsir's mu Optical principles on which eye is con

   seum, and their illustrative speciality,             structed, 211, 212 ; sense, heightened

   171 in Brewster and Goodsir, 175, 176

Musical instruments, playing power Organisation, epoch the science has

   owing to a nervous mechanism, 249                    reached, 287

Myology of elephant, notes on, 446-451                  Organs of sense, mediate or immediate
Myological studies, 130, 131                                212

Mystery of connection between matter Ortliagoriscua mold, Goodsir's memoir

   and mind, 291                                        on certain peculiarities in its struc

Myxinc compared with Amphioxus, 3S9                     ture, 74, 394-400 ; other accounts of

Nasmttii (Mr. ), dentist, Goodsir appren                   by Professors Cleland   and  Turner
   ticed to, 19 ; kindly cancels his inden                  referred to, 396
                                                        Orthodoxy questioned, 119

   tures, 22                                            Owen (Richard), England owes her high

Natural history feelings of Goodsir im                  position in comparative anatomy to,
   bibed by his pupils, 128 ; lectures on               86 ; detects vegetable organisms in

"   for Professor Jamieson,  146              Germans,  lungs of Phamicoplerus, 113 ; the
   Naturphilosophie" of      the                        highest British authority as a teleo-

"   303                of the                 Germans,  logist and comparative anatomist, 156 ;
   Naturwissenschaft"                                   labours in teleological anatomy, Good-

   303 sir's great value of, 190 ; a pupil of
Neill's (Dr. Patrick) opinion on sprat
   and herring, 108.                                    Barclay's, 364 ; on Trichina spiralis
                                                        referred to, 404

Nervous system, morphological relations Oxford, a delight to Goodsir, 171, 172

   of, 156, 157                                         Oxonian system combined with northern

Nerve-filaments, Goodsir's views on, 153                scheme of education, 171

Newbigging (the brothers), 65                           Page (Dr. David) excavates burial-ground
"NiNceo,ctGcsooLdostihr iaant,se1,5"0,101668               of St. Leonards, 48 ; at 21 Lothian

Nomenclature of Professor Goodsir, 157,                 Street, 105

   158, 161                                             Palate of man, 250

Normanby (Lord) appoints Professor                      Palaeontology, Goodsir's studies, 49, 50
   Macgillivray to Aberdeen chair, 79                   Pallas, Amphioxus, described in his Spi-

North temperate region the original area                   cilegia Zoologica as Umax lanccola-

   of man, 183                                              ius, 372
Notelxjoks and manuscripts, 200                         Palm of the hands of man and the chim-

Notes on lectures on life and organisa                  pansee, markings of, 174 ; the folds

   tion, 299, 322                                       in the skin, 238

Novara, Goodsir consulted on the natural Paralysis of lower extremities, Goodsir's
   history equipment of the Austrian
                                                        case, 150

466                                   INDEX.

Parasite of the nervous system of had       Press on Professor Goodsir, 196, 197
   dock and cod, 141
                                            Prevention better than cure, 337, 338
Patella, on action of, 151                  Prizes aimed at by Professor Goodsir, 199
Pathology, Goodsir's studies in, 66 ;       Productivity of certain vegetable and

   parts with his preparations, 80            animal forms affected by human
Pelonaia, a new genus of tunicated mol
                                               agency, 218
   luscs, described by Forbes and Good-     Progress of anatomy, lecture on, 350, 368
   sir, 72, 435-440 ; P. corrugata, 435 ;   Progression of human body less laborious

  P. glabra, 436                              than of animal, 227
Perception, what it is, 310
Percy (Dr. John), graduation thesis, 131    Progressive man, 280-285

Perineum, casts of dissection of, 34        Protoplasm (nucleated) of the Germans,
Personal characteristics of Professor         91, 94
                                                              of cells,
    Goodsir, 70, 71                         Proliferation  "  Goodsir's  93          as,  1S6,
Personalityof human being, 221 ; of man,    "Promoter,                    addresses

    spiritual element, 271                     187, 323-385
Pets at 21 Lothian Street, 97, 98           Protogenes of Professor Hawkel, 95
Pettigrew appointed to a situation in
                                            Psyche, the soul of the animal, 269, 29S
    Hunterian Museum, 128                   Psychic principle, immutability of its
Pliallusia vulgaris, tunic of, 141
Phases '(two) of humanity, 280 ; cause        powers, 272, 276
                                            Psychical essence varies in its endow
   of second, 281                             ments in different species of animals,

Philosophical Institution, twelve lectures    295 ; powers in brute, 314, 315
    on human physiology at, 114 ; instru    Psychology, human and comparative,
                                              how to be investigated, 210 ; and

   ments, Goodsir collects the best, 169,      metaphysics, distinction of, 307
                                            Pupils, Goodsir much esteemed by, 126
    172                                     Purkinje's views on development of
Philosophy of matter, various views of,
                                               teeth, 43 ; discovers germinal vesicles
    94, 95                                     in ovary of birds, 84
Phmiicopterus, greenish vegetable mould

   in lungs of, 113                         Quain's Anatomy, edited by Prs.
                                               Sharpey, Thomson, and Cleland, 115
Phonetic types, their tenacity in succes
                                            Quaker Philosophers, 67
"   sive development of language,  253
   Physiological anatomy," 366

Physiological laws, obedience of animals    Rabbits, 150 sacrificed by Dr. Martin
                                               Barry to ascertain one fact in physi
   to, 218

Placenta, on the structure of, 116

Plant, psyche in, 296                          ology, 68
                                            Raschkow's views on milk-teeth, 43
Pnmma, Goodsir's infallible, 127 ; in       Reptilian heart, on a want of synchron

   man subject to his will, 272 ; co-ordi      ism in the movements of its auricles,

   nate with sphere of action on earth

   and his future destination, 276, 299         443-445                  Goodsir takes a
                                            Reymond (Du
Popliteus muscle, action of, 455-456                          Bois),
                                                           of Malapterurus to, 169
Position of man, and the erect one pecu         specimen   animal on its area, 209 ; of
                                            Reaction of
   liar to him, 224 ; in the scale of be        man upon his geographical area, 21S
                                            Rectangular system onwhich man's body
   ing, 266

Potato disease, paper on, 76 ; Goodsir

   studies the subject, 121, 122               is formed, 276
                                            Redfcrn (Professor), observations on ab
Power and force, how they differ, 270

Practice, the aim and purport of medical      normal nutrition in articularcartilagcs

    education, 131-133                        117                  demonstrator to     \»-
Practitioner, Goodsir as one at An-                                his works, 65,     6a6adj
                                            Reid (Dr. John),       chair of anatomy   106
   struther, 34                                 Knox, 28 ; and    21 Lothian Street,
Preciseness of Goodsir as a lecturer, 126      gets St. Andrews
Preference of man for certain articles of      medicine, 72 ; at
                                            Religiosity characteristic of every form
   food specially created for him, 217
Present aspect of medicine, addressed by      of tile human race, 277
                                                                   of Goodsir, 193
   Professor Goodsir to the Medico-         Religious character   subduing the eartfy
   Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh,        Replenishing and

   January 5, 1859, 336-349                 | instances of, 219

                                                      INDEX.                                    467

Reputation of Professor Goodsir abroad, Savage, man not originally, 276

189 Schleiden and Schwann discover cell in

"ReRsepsounrsreibcitliitoynisotfs"maonf,    274       20      1838, 84, 85
                                          Edinburgh,      Schwann's views on the nature of the

Retina, mosaic structure of, 320                              cell, 94

Retrogressive man, 276-279                                Science not recognised in this country,

Retzius on Amphioxus Utnceolatus, 373                         100, 101 ; should not be elevated

Revealed record to be taken into account                      above other forms of human belief,

when treating of man's position, 184 ;                        185 ; properly so called had its origin

and man's consciousness that he is to                         within the Christian era, 285

have dominion over plants and ani Scinciis Variegatus, want of synchronism

mals, 216 ; and the scientific results                        in the movements of the auricles of

of human research, 278                                        heart, 443

Revelation (Divine) inscribed on Goodsir's Scolex gigas, Cuvier, Oymnorhynchus
standard, 127 ; indicates north tem                           reptans, Rudolphi, 401

perate zone as original area of man, Scottish king's tombs, edict against

    215                                                       desecration of, 48 ; systems of physic,
Robin on milk-teeth, Goodsir's remarks                        Cullen and Brown, 357

on, 44                                                    Scriptures should be more read and ex

Rosenkranz, ^Esthetik des Hasslichen,                         pounded at public worship, 166

144 Sea-urchins, on their structure, 139

Ross (Duncan Forbes) of Kindeace, 9 ;                     Seal tamed at Anstruther, 58          of,
    (Miss Jeanie), wife of Rev. Joseph                    Secreting structures, paper on, 114
    Taylor, 9                                             Secretion the same as nutrition, 115
                                                          Self and not self, our consciousness
Rousseau as a true philosopher, 154
Royal College of Surgeons, Goodsir be                         221

   comes a licentiate of, 34 ; appointed                  Self-consciousness of human conscious
                                                              ness, 222
   curator, 79 ; his work there, 80-83
Royal Infirmary, Dr. John Reid and his                    Senatus academicus, their opinion of
                                                             Professor Goodsir, 196
   circle at, 65 ; Goodsir wishes to be

come assistant- surgeon, 133                              Sensation,    three parts in every act,

Royal Institution, cast of dissection of                      309

horse presented to, 135                                   Serres on embryonic condition of teeth,

Royal Medical Society, Goodsir joins it,                      42

24 ; its presidents, 64 ; great names Sharpey (Dr.) observations on Cilia and
upon its roll, 76 ; elected senior                            his early use of the microscope in

   president, 77                                              anatomical research, 88 ; history of
Royal Physical Society, Goodsir's first                       general anatomy, 115

public appearance, 33 ; president of, Sheep, embryo of, possesses germs of
78 canine and upper incisive teeth, 44

Royal Society, elected a fellow, 121                      Sheep's cranium picked up by Goethe,

Ruminants, on the follicular stage on                         and inference he drew from its exami

dentition in, 44                                              nation, 154

                                                          Shetland and Orkney, Goodsir's and

Sacrum, development of in man, 226                            Forbes's visit to, 52, 53

St. Andrews, Goodsir goes to university, Shoulder in man, its peculiarity, 232 ;
13 ; its museum, 14 ; university, 45 ;                        in the animal, 233, 235

its literary and philosophical society,                   Sight in infant, 319, 321             his
                                                          Simpson (Sir James Y., Bart.),
46 ; reads essays at, 48, 53 ; Goodsir
and Forbes aspirants for chairs in the                       labours and discoveries, 66, 67

   university of, 72                      development     Skin of man, its density, toughness, and
Salmon, Goodsir studies                                      pliancy, 244-246

    and characters of, 110                                Skull, variety of opinions as to the

Sanitarians, animals are perfect, 218                         number of its segments, 160 ; and

Sanitary regulations, how forced upon                         brain in man, 256-261

the attention of man, 218                                 Skulls of early Fife settlers examined, 47

Sarcina ventriculi, paper on, 76 ; in Smacks of Anstruther, 17

cases of water-brash, 112 ; affects all Smell, on the aesthetics of, 143 ; and

phases of life, 113                                           taste in man, 246, 247

4G8  INDEX.

Smolts grow into grilse, 110                 Sun-fish (short) and its parasite, memoir
Smyth (Professor Piazzi), member of              on, 74, 394, 400

   ^Esthetic club, 142; on the antiquity     Surface of globe, how affected by human
   of intellectual man, referred to, 280        agency, 218 ; of organic forms, Good-
Snail, account of its anatomy, 33               sir's researches, 174
Sole of human foot and of ape, 240, 241
Song, stanza from one of Forbes's oinero-    Surgeon, Goodsir as a practical surgeon
   mathic songs, 10S                            at Anstruther, 35 ; (consulting) wishes
Sounds, on the general principle which          to become, 132
   regulates the approbation or disappro
   bation of sounds, 143                     Surgical anatomy, 359
South Cottage, Wardie, 188 ; his death
                                             Syme (Professor), notices young Goodsir,
    at, 194                                      16 ; Goodsir dresser and assistant to,
Space, a condition of thought, 221
Species, specific economy, 208 ; when            29 ; his opinion of Goodsir's lectures
                                                 at College of Surgeons, 81 ; offers
   species ceases to exist, 209                 him curatorship of Medical Faculty's
Specific chemical constitution of each          collection, 108

   group of ultimate organised parts of      Symmetry of brain has more to do with
                                                higher faculties than bulk or form, 1S4
    frame, 293
Speculation in last years of Goodsir's       Sympathetic nerve, on the cephalic
                                                 termination of, 54-56
   life, 181
Speech as affecting the application of       Synovial membrane of joints, on, 1 52
                                             SynUthya from Hebrides, a new genus, 78
    man's endowments, 220 ; conferred        Syphilitic nodes on skulls of early Fife
   on man by a Divine act, 184 ; in
                                                 settlers, 47, 48
    man, 250-255
Spence (Professor), attended Goodsir in      Tail in fishes like Orthagoriscus, etc.,

   his last illness, 194                         398, 399                          9;
Spicula of Tethea, 408-412                   Taylor (Rev. Joseph) of Carnbee,      Dr.
Spider-monkey, corkscrew curve of tail,
                                                 (Miss Elizabeth Dunbar), marries
    225                                         Goodsir of Anstruther, 9

Spine (human), 225                           Taylor and Smyth, measurements from
Spiral attitudes into which human body
                                                pyramid, 181
   can be thrown, how accounted for, 226 ;   Teaching and revival of the anatomical
   character of joint-movements, 152
Spiral (logarithmic) law at work in the         school, 122-123 ; of Goodsir, its ex
   increase of organic bodies, 180
Spiritual economy to be considered in            cellences and completeness, 130
   judging man's relative place in animal
   series, 275 ; relations of man, Goodsir   Teeth, Goodsir makes collection of
                                                morbid and healthy anatomy of, 24 ;
    on, 185
                                                memoir on the origin and development
Sponges, paper on the morphological             of the pulps and sacs of the human teeth,
   constitution of the skeleton of, 75 ;         36-44 ; of man affecting speech, 250
                                             Tegumentary folds of palm of human
    on the animal matter of, 138
                                                hand, 238-239 ; of ape's hand, 240
Sprat and herring, difference between,
                                             Teleological anatomy defined, 262 ;
    108                                         should be kept distinct, 264

Stirling (Mr.), assistant conservator, 163,  Temperate zone most suitable for human
                                                life and welfare, 216
    176, 178
                                             Tennant (William) the poet, a native of
Structure merely the instrument of              Anstruther, 5
   consciousness, 209 ; and actions of
                                             Testimonials of Goodsir for anatomy
   living organism as a chemico-physical
                                                 chair, 119
    system, 288
                                             Tests and oaths required for university
Struthers (Dr. John), teaches Goodsir's         chairs, 121 ; removal of professional
                                                tests in lay chairs of Scottish univer
    class, 150
                                             sities, 145
Student homes and habits, 97-107
Studia Zoonomica, a work proposed, 129       Tethea, paper on the structure and
Subjects, high price of, 20 ; Goodsir
                                                 economy of, 405-419
    carries one to Anstruther, 34            Tetrahedron, the finished structure of
Sufferings of Goodsir from overwork,
                                             man, 179
    149 ; his latest, 191
                                             Tctmrhynchua reptans, Cobbold,Entozoa,

                                             401

                                     INDEX.                                                                  469

Textures, Goodsir's studies of the type Upper limb in man, 232-242

upon which they were arranged, 174 Uvula as affecting speech, 250

Tludassema and Echiurus, Forbes and
   Goodsir's paper on their natural Vesalius and the influence of his ana

history and anatomy, 425-434                                       tomical discoveries, 84

Tluilassina mutatoria of Montagu, 426 Vertebral column in man, peculiarities

Theological thoughts of Professor Good-                            arranged for erect position, 224-227

sir, 166                                                           Vertebrate head, on morphology of, 158

Theses of his pupils, 128                                          Veterinary diploma, Goodsir examines

Thigh and thigh-bone in man and ani                                for, 134, 135

    mals compared, 228                      Virchow (Professor) dedicates to Goodsir
Thomson (Dr. Allen) as a discoverer   in his work on cellular pathology, 92

   embryology, 68                           Vision, sense of, as manifested in the

Thought and the moral faculty not animal, 211-213

possessed by the animal, 220-221                                   Vogt's opinion that the brain produces

Thumb in human hand capable of com                                 thoughts, etc., 290

plete opposition, 238                                              Voice in man, 249

Time and space,   318                                              Wagner and Henle's views on the nature
Tissues, anatomy  of, researches in, 84-96 ;

their growth and construction uniform                              of the cell, 94

in character, 85 ; deeper examination Wardie, intention to build a house at,

of, by compound microscope, 87 ;                                       188 ; his last days at, 191

Goodsir regarded their demonstration                               Wellenbergh (P. H. J.), inaugural dis

   as  an(Ders.s)e, nt"ialCypclaorptaeodfiahisocfouArnsea,to1m2y5      sertation on Orthagoriscus referred to,
Todd                                                                   394

and Physiology," 86                                                Wernerian Society, Goodsir becomes a

Tongue of man, 250                                                 member, 74 ; writes many papers for
                                                                   it,
Tortoise, experiment on the auricular                                    ;  74, 75
   contractions of its heart, 443-445
                                                                                     ;Whytt (Dr. Robert), influence on physi
Tradition points out north temperate                                                   ;ology, 355
                                                                                                    ;

                                                                                                          ;
   zone as original area of man, 215                               Wildbad, Goodsir at, 168
Trangression of laws, animals not sub                              Will, animals have no will in the proper

ject to, 213                                                       sense, 213 directed by Divine prin

Triangle, the basis of organic forms,                              ciples of thought and belief, 223

   Goodsir's views, 176-182, 193                                   Wilson (Dr. George), 69 at 21 Lothian
Triangular arrangements, 175                                          Street, 106 and Goodsir propose to

Trichina spiralis not found on subjects                            lecture on chemico-physiology, 111,

    dissected, 141 ; Owen on, 404                                  112 as biographer of Forbes, Good-
                                                                   sir's opinion, 167 (James), accom
Trinity Baths, residence at, 187

Truth in measurements, Goodsir's parti                             panies Goodsir to Dornoch Firth, 108

cularity, 178                                                      Words originally appellative, 251

Tunicata (compound), paper on, 78                                  Works to the last, 191-193

Tunicated molluscs, lectures on, 141                               Worm infesting muscular tissue of Brama

Turner (Professor), assistant to Goodsir,                          raji, 401

125 Written language an addition to the
Tutorial system introduced into his chair
                                                                   faculty of speech, 255

   by Goodsir, 124                                                 Y Alt it ell institutes genus             Amphioxus,
Tweeddale (Marquis of) consults Good-
                                                                       371
   sir on feeding qualities of turnips, 134

Ugly, on the aesthetics of the, 144                                Young (A.) sends specimens of salmon
                                                                      and spawn to Goodsir, 110

Ulceration in articular cartilage, 116
Ulcers and abscesses, how they affect the Zoology (marine) studied at Anstruther,

caecum, 76, 77                                                     17

University of Edinburgh, Goodsir matri                             Zoology, Goodsir's love for the study of,
    culates in, 19 ; anatomical museum,
   Goodsir labours to make it first-rate,                              136, 137
                                                                   Zoophyte, new to British seas, found in

170 Orkney, 62

THE

ANATOMICAL MEMOIES

                                                                     OP

       JOHN GOODSIR

                                                         F. R. S.
               LATE PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH

                                                     EDITED BY

                WILLIAM TURNER, M.B.

                               PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH

        WITH A BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR BY
                 HENRY LONSDALE, M.D.

                                                     FORMERLY LECTURER OH ANATOMY

                                    VOL. II.

                          EDINBURGH
             ADAM AND CHARLES BLACK

                                              1868

Printed by R. Cr.ARK, Edinburgh.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

                    DIVISION I.                                              Page

I. On the Origin and Development of the Pulps

and Sacs of the Human Teeth  .. 1

(Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, Jan. 1839.)

II. On the Follicular Stage of Dentition in the                              53

           Euminants, wirci some Eemarks on that Pro
           cess in the other Orders of Mammalia .

(Transactions of British Association for Advancement of
       Science, August 1839.)

III. On the Mode in which Musket - Bullets and                               5G

              other Foreign Bodies become inclosed in
             the Ivory of the Tusks of the Elephant .

(Transactions of Royal Society of Edinburgh, January 18,
        1841.)

IV. On the Supra -Eenal, Thymus, and Thyroid
.66Bodies
.. .. .
  ....(Philosophical Transactions, January 22, 1846.)

V. On the Morphological Eelations of the Ner
            vous System in the Annulose and Vertebrate
Types of Organisation                                                        78

(Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, January 1857.)

VI. On the Morphological Constitution of the

Skeleton of the Vertebrate Head .                                         . 88

                        (Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, January 1857.)  .  198

VII. On the Morphological Constitution of Limbs

(Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, January 1857.)

VI CONTENTS.

    .....DIVISION II.                                                     Page
                                                                          205
VIII. On the Employment of Mathematical Modes

               of Investigation in the Determination of

                  Organic Forms
       (Daily Mail, July and August 1849.)

......IX. On the Horizontal Curvature of the Internal                     220
           Femoral Condyle; on the Movements and
          Eelations of the Patella, Semilunar Carti
          lages, and Synovial Pads of the Human

           Knee-Joint
                     (Edinburgh Medical Journal, July 1855.)
                                                              .231
X. On the Mechanism of the Knee- Joint .

       ....(Abstract in Proceedings of Royal Society, Edinburgh,
              January 18, 1858.)
XI. On the Curvatures and Movements of the

       Acting Facets of Articular Surfaces                      .         246
                                                                          265
XII. Lecture on the Retina

XIJJ.   .....(Edinburgh Medical Journal, October 1855.)

       On TnE Mode in which Light acts on the Ulti                        273

           mate Nervous Structures of the Eye, and
           on the Relations between Simple and Com
           pound Eyes
       (Proceedings of Royal Society, Edinburgh, April 6, 1857.)

XIV. Lecture on the Lamina Spiralis of the Cochlea 282

       (Edinburgh Medical Journal, December 1855.)

.....XV. On the Electrical Apparatus in Torpedo, Gym-                     289
              notus, Malapterurus, and Raia . .                           306

                 (Edinburgh Medical Journal, August and September 1855.)

XVI. A Brief Review of the Present State of Or
            ganic Electricity
       (Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, October 1855.)

    .....CONTENTS.                                        VU

XVII. On the Conferva which vegetates on the Skin       Page

               of the Gold-Fish                          345

(Annnln and Magazine of Natural History, IX., 1842.)
..........XVIII.
History of a Case in which a Fluid periodi
   cally EJECTED FROM THE STOMACH CONTAINED

    Vegetable Organisms of an undescribed form

(Sarcina Ventriculi)                                            351
(Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, LVII., 1842.)          372

XIX On a Diseased Condition of the Intestinal

Glands

(Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, April
       1842.)

XX Structure and Pathology of kidney and liver 379

(London and Edinburgh Monthly Medical Journal, May

1842.)
.........Anatomical and Pathological Observations. --Edin. 1845.
 XXI. Centres of Nutrition         of the Intes                 389
XXII. The Structure and Functions                               393

          tinal Villi
......XXIIL Absorption, Ulceration, and the Structures
                 engaged in these Processes . . .       403

XXIV. The Process of Ulceration in Articular Car
 ....tilages      .                                  408

XXV. Secreting Structures          . .412

XXVI. The Testis and its Secretion in the Decapo-

dous Crustaceans                                        429

XXVII. The Structure of the Serous Membranes . 43G

vill CONTENTS.                                                                     Page
                                                                                   439
XXVIIL Structure of the Lymphatic Glands .

XXIX. The Structure of the Human Placenta                                          445

XXX. The Structure and Economy of Bone                                          . 4G1

XXXI. The Mode of Reproduction after Death of                                      465
             the Shaft of a Long Bone . . .

XXXII. The Mode of Reproduction of Lost Parts in
                                                                                .471
        the Crustacea  .  .  .

XXXin. Of the Anatomy and Development of the

           .476Cystic Entozoa . . . .

XXXIV. Description of an Erectile Tumour                                     .  .  504
                                                                                   506
                                           (Monthly Medical Journal, 1845.)        508

XXXV. Description of a Congenital Tumour of the

                Testis

        (Northern Journal of Medicine, 1845.)

XXXVI.  The Curvatures of the Articular Surfaces
          and the General Mechanism of the Hip-
          Joint

      EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.

      DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH.-- Plate I. page 1.

a. Fig. 1. A tooth-germ -- a bulging on a mucous membrane.

b. Diagrams illustrating the three stages of dentition.

Fig. 1. Follicular. 2. Saccular. 3. Eruptive stage.

c. Diagrams illustrative of the formation of a temporary and its

          corresponding permanent tooth from a mucous membrane.

Fig. 1. Mucous membrane. Fig. 2. Mucous membrane, with a gra

         nular mass deposited in it. Fig. 3. A furrow or groove on

Fig.  4.  Athpeapgilrlaanu(laartomotahss.germ()Priomn ittihvee   dental   groove.)
Fig.                                                            floor of  the groove.

      5. The papilla enclosed in a follicle in the bottom of the groove
               (the latter in the condition of a secondary dental groove).
Fig. 6. The papilla acquiring the configuration of a pulp, and its sac

          acquiring opercula. The depression for the cavity of re

          serve behind the inner operculum.

Fig. 7. The papilla become a pulp^ and the follicle a sac, in conse

          quence of the adhesion of the opercular lips. The second

          ary dental groove in the act of closing.

Fig. 8. The secondary groove adherent, except behind the inner

          operculum, where it has left a shut cavity of reserve for the

                 formation of the pulp and sac of the permanent tooth.
Fig. 9. The last change rendered more complete by the deposition of

          the granular body (the enamel organ of Hunter, Purkinje, and
          Raschkow). Deposition of tooth substance commencing.
Fig. 10. The cavity of reserve receding from the surface of the gum,

          and dilating it at its distal extremity, in which a pulp ia

          forming. Rudimentary opercula developing near its proximal

          extremity and dividing it into a follicular and an extra-folli-

          cular compartment. Temporary tooth pulp nearly covered
          with tooth substance, and granular body almost absorbed.

Fig. 1 1. The cavity of reserve become a sac with a pulp, and further

          removed from the surface of the gum. Temporary tooth pulp

          covered with tooth substance, and granular body absorbed.

               (See Hunter, Nat. Hist. of Human Teeth, p. 95.)
Fig. 12. The temporary tooth acquiring its fang by the triple

          b

X EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.

      action described in the paper, and its sac approaching the

      surface of the gum.

Fig. 13. The fang of the temporary tooth longer, and its sac touching

      the mucous membrane of the mouth.

Fig. 14. The temporary tooth sac again a follicle ; free portion of

      the latter becoming shorter, and fang of the tooth receding

      from the bottom of its socket. Permanent tooth sac re

                 moving further from the surface of the gum.
Fig. 15. The temporary tooth completed. Free portion of the sac be

      come the vascular border of the gum ; adherent portion

      become what    iswhcicohmminonlfyactdeisnoma intartipeldexthemepmerbiorasnteeu--m    of
      the fang, but                                                                      viz.

      mucous membrane, submucous tissue, and periosteum of al

      veolus or jaw bone. The permanent tooth sac much re
      moved from the gum, but connected with it by accord which
      passes through the foramen behind the temporary alveolus.

Fig. 16. The fang of the permanent tooth lengthening, and the crown

      approaching the gum Fang of temporary tooth undergoing

      absorption.

Fig. 17. The same change more advanced.

Fig. 18. The permanent tooth appearing through the gum. Shedding

      of the temporary tooth.

Fig. 19. The perfected permanent tooth.

Fig. 20. The shed temporary tooth.

      d. Diagrams illustrative of the formation of the three molar teeth

Fig.         from the non-adherent portion of the primitive dental groove.
Fig.
      1. The non-adherent portion of the primitive dental groove.
      2. The papilla and follicle of the first molar on the floor of

      the non-adherent portion, which is now a portion of the

                 secondary groove.
Fig. 3. The papilla and follicle of the first molar become a pulp and

                 sac. The lips of the secondary grove adhering, so that the
               latter has become the posterior or great cavity of reserve.
Fig. 4. The sac of the first molar increased in size, and advanced

      along a curved path into the substance of the coronoid
      process or maxillary tuberosity. The cavity of reserve

               lengthened out or advanced along with it.
Fig. 5. The sac of the first molar returned by the same path to its

               former position. The cavity of reserve again shortened.

Fig. 6. The cavity of reserve sending backwards the sac of the

      second molar.

Fig. 7. The sac of the second molar advanced along a curved path

      into the coronoid process or maxillary tuberosity. The

      cavity of reserve lengthened for the second time.

Fig. 8. The sac of the second molar returned to the level of the

      dental range. The cavity of reserve shortened for the

      second time.

      EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.  XI

Fig. 9. The cavity of reserve sending off the pulp and sac of
                 the wisdom tooth.

Fig. 10. The sac of the wisdom tooth advanced along a curved line
                 into the maxillary tuberosity or coronoid process.

Fig. 11. The sac of the wisdom tooth returned to the extremity of
                 the dental range.

Fig.     MUSKET-BULLETS IN TUSKS OF ELEPHANTS.
Fig.                          Plate II. page 56.
Fig.
Fig.  1. A portion of a section of a wounded tusk ; a cement ; b regular
Fig.
             ivory deposited previous to the wound ; c irregular ivory
Fig.
             deposited after the wound.

      2. A diagram illustrative of the mode of connection between the

             Betzian tubes of the primary and secondary regular ivory,

             and the cells and Betzian tubes of the different inosculating

             systems of the irregular ivory, after inclosure of a ball ; a
            cement with its osseous corpuscles ; b primary regular ivory
            with its Betzian tubes ; c the ball ; d the irregular ivory
            with its systems of tubes and cells ; e secondary regular ivory

      3. A copper ball inclosed in a sphere of irregular ivory, on the

            surface of which are the orifices of Haversian canals. Some

            of the orifices have closed, and present the appearance of

             irregular projections. The mass has begun to be attached to
            the regular ivory of the tusk, and would in time have been
            inclosed in it. The ball must either have passed across from
            the opposite side of the tusk, or must have sunk below the
            level of the hole by which it entered.
      4. Section of a tusk across the cavity of which a ball has passed,
            and become inclosed in the ivory of the wall opposite the

           hole by which it entered. The hole is filled with irregular
            ivory, coated externally with cement. The cement over the ball
            has been disarranged by the shock. This section proves that

             the track of a ball across the pulp is not necessarily ossified.

      5. Section of a tusk across the base of which a spear-head has
            penetrated and remained in the wound. The weapon has

             therefore been separated from the pulp by deposition of

           irregular ivory in the form of a tube ; a cement ; b b ir

             regular ivory deposited previous to the wound ; c c regular

             ivory deposited after the wound ; d irregular ivory inclosing

             a vacant space e, the seat of an abscess or sinus, and con
            tinuous with the cavity of f, a mass of irregular ivory (coated
            with regular ivory) in the form of a tube surrounding the
            foreign body. As irregular ivory always contracts in drying,
            more than any other kind of dental substance, that portion

             of the section marked g g has been bent outwards.

      6. The same section viewed in profile ; a the broken shaft of the

xii EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.

                 spear ; 6 an irregular mass of cement formed round the orifice
                 of the wound by the membrane of the tusk follicle, and
                 which would have closed the wound had the weapon been
               removed. The wound inflicted has in this instance, as in
                 many others, stunted the growth of the tusk at c c, so as
                 to render the part formed after the injury narrower and

                   weaker.

Fig. 7. A longitudinal section of a tusk in which a gun-shot wound
               had terminated in abscess of the pulp ; a a cement ;
               6 b regular ivory deposited before the injury ; c c regular

                 ivory deposited after the injury ; d d irregular ivory bound
                 ing the abscess ; e e masses of cement and irregular ivory at
                 the margin of the shot-hole.
Fig. 8. The external aspect of a portion of a tusk, which had been
                 transversely fractured ; a a the line of fracture united exter
                 nally by irregular masses of cement.
Fig. 9. The internal aspect of the same portion of tusk ; a a the line of
                 fracture united by irregular ivory, a portion of which is
                 arranged in a reticular form. This reticular ivory is interest
                 ing, as affording a natural analysis of the peculiar arrange
               ment of parts in the irregular ivory described in the paper.
                 Each bar of the reticular ivory is traversed longitudinally by
                 a medullary canal, from which radiate secondary canals and
                 Retzian tubes, the whole being coated with regular ivory.
                 This reticular ivory differs from the ordinary form of ossified
                 pulp, only in the greater distance between the Haversian or
                 medullary canals, so that portions of the pulp have remained
                   unossified between them.

   DEVELOPMENT OF THE SUPRA-RENAL, THYMUS, AND
                THYROID BODIES.-- Plate III. page 66.

Fig. 1. A portion of an early embryo of the sheep.

            a. Heart.
           b. Lungs still in front of the intestinal tube.
             c. Wolffian body.
             d. Lateral mass of blastema, out of which is formed the supra

                     renal capsule, thymus, and thyroid.
            e. Cardinal vein.

         /. Jugular vein.

            g. Ductus Cuvieri.

Fig. 2. A portion of the early embryo of the sheep.
           a. Intestinal tube and ductus vitelli.

            b. Liver.
            c. Omphalo-mesenteric vein.

              d. Omphalo-mesenteric artery.

        e, f. Mass of blastema on the inner side of the Wolffian body, and

EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.  xiii

                  around the trunks of the omphalo-mesenteric vessels ; this is
                 the posterior part of the lateral mass of blastema marked d
               in Fig. 1, and becomes in the course of development the

                 supra-renal capsule.
Fig. 3. An early embryo of the sheep.

             a. Head, branchial arches, and rudiment of the eye.
             b. Heart.

             c. Ductus Cuvieri entering the auricle, and receiving
             d. The jugular, and
             e. The cardinal vein.

         /. The lateral blastema.

            g. Wolffian body.
             h. Umbilical cord, to which is passing
             t. The allantois.

         j. The omphalo-mesenteric artery, and

             k. Omphalo-mesenteric vein ; traces of the umbilical vessels are
               also seen in the parietes of the abdomen.

             I. The liver and intestinal tube.

             m. Lungs.
Fig. 4. Jugular veins and lateral masses of blastema in the sheep,

                 soon after the latter have joined across the middle line.
            a. The triangular absorption of the cervical portion, which is

               the first indication of the separation of the thyroid.
Fig. 5. The next stage, in which the thyroid is more distinct.
Fig. 6. The thyroid is now quite distinct, and differs from the thymus

              in being opaque ; the latter exhibits opaque spots in a semi-

                 transparent matrix.
Fig. 7. The thyroid and thymus have assumed their perfect form.

Fig. 8. A portion of the supra-renal capsule of the adult green monkey,
             slightly compressed. It exhibits the minute nucleated par
               ticles of which it consists. Among these, at pretty regular

                distances, are seen the germinal spots.

Fig. 9. A portion of the thymus of the brown bear, slightly compressed.
             It exhibits the nucleated particles of which it consists. These
               are grouped in spherical masses around centres from which

                they appear to have derived their origin.

Fig. 10. A portion of the thymus from a human fetus. It has been

                taken from the surface of the gland, so as to exhibit the

                areolar fibres which form its delicate capsule. The pressure
                of the glass plates has almost obliterated the spherical
              grouping in the cells.

Fig. 11. A portion of the membrane which covered the contiguous sur

                 faces of the lobes of the thymus of a human fetus (the

             membrane lining the reservoirs of Sir A. Cooper). It has
             the same structure as in Fig. 10. It exhibits no germinal

                 membrane, but consists of an areolar or fibrous texture inter

                 mixed with the cells of the organ, the fibres being more

Xiv EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.

               fasciculated, and running a straighter course than in the

                 substance of the organ.

Fig. 12. A portion of the thyroid from a human footus, slightly com
            pressed. It exhibits the same structure as the thymus, but

                 its fibrous texture is more developed.

Fig. 13. A portion of the same thyroid to show its vascular network, in

               the meshes of which, as in Fig. 1 2, the cells are seen arranged
               in groups.

CENTRES OF NUTRITION.-- Plate IV. page 389.

Fig. 1. A portion of the middle and internal membranes of a large

encysted tumour situated under the tongue, and removed by

Professor Syme.

a. The middle or second membrane, which is a germinal
   membrane, consisting of flattened cells, the lines of junction

   of which are faintly visible, the nuclei remaining as the

    germinal spots of the membrane.

b. The internal membrane, a layer of small cells, somewhat
   spherical, with slightly granular contents.
         The external membrane of the cyst, consisting of areolar
   and elastic fibres, contained the blood-vessels of the morbid

growth.
     The cyst contained a soft mass resembling thick honey

in consistence. The outer layer of this mass was white, and

consisted of large, flat, transparent cells or scales, with few or

no traces of nuclei. The larger internal part of the mass

was reddish-grey, and consisted of ovoidal cells, resembling

those of the external layer, except that they were turgid
with a transparent oily-like fluid, and contained nuclei in

                 various stages of development.  mass -- those  without
Fig. 2, a. Fig. 3, a. Cells of the meliceritous

nuclei being those of the white external layer, the others

      belonging to the reddish-grey part of the mass, presenting
     nuclei in various stages of development.
b b. Some of the latter cells, in which the nuclei have become so

much developed as to distend their cells beyond the average

size. In these enlarged cells, it will be remarked that the

nuclei, instead of remaining as single germinal spots for each
cell, have broken up into numerous spots or centres of

nutrition.
     In a tumour of this kind, the cyst and its contents are

two distinct parts, and perform two distinct actions. The
cyst is the active agent in withdrawing materials of nutrition
for itself and its contents from the vessels which ramify in

its outer tunic. The organs which accomplish this are the
germinal spots in its middle tunic, which, in virtue of forces

           EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.                     XV

of attraction in each, select and remove from the capillary

vessels the matter necessary for the formation of the cells of

the internal layer. These after solution pass in succession

into the cavity of the cyst, to serve as nutriment for the

contained cellular mass.

This mass is evidently the principal element of the

morbid growth. The cyst is a subsidiary or accessory part,

arranged for the protection and due supply of nourishment

for its principal. The cells of which this mass consists have

each its own nucleus or germinal centre. These cells would

appear to be of two classes -- those whose nuclei produce
young cells in their interior for their own nutrition, but not

for the reproduction of new mother-cells, and those which

act as reproductive individuals for the whole morbid growth.

These latter cells are marked 6 6 in Figs. 2 and 3, and con
tain numerous nutritive centres or germinal spots in their

interior. The flat cells of the white external layer appear to

be those individuals of the first class, which are about to

close their existence, their nuclei having disappeared ; their

food, therefore, no longer supplied to them, and their position

in the mass removed to the exterior by the eccentric

development of the younger and more active neighbouring

cells. In a morbid mass of this kind, as in the textures and
organs of an animal generally, certain parts are set aside as

reproducers, the remaining parts performing the functions of

the whole mass, texture, or organ ; just as in certain com

munities of animals certain individuals are set aside to re

produce the swarm, the others are devoted to the duties of

the hive.

Fig. 4. Two portions of the primary or germinal membrane from the

tubes of the tubular portion of the human kidney. The

germinal spots of the gland are seen imbedded in the sub

stance of the membrane. The external layer of this mem

brane, which may occasionally be seen with the nuclei

detached from   the basement or homogeneous membrane
                it,
                    is
                                    it
of Mr. Bowman. In other instances, as when the epithelia

are but slightly developed,             becomes difficult to decide

whether we have merely the germinal membrane, or both

the membrane and its epithelia before us.

INTESTINAL VILLI.-- Plate IV. page 389.

Fig. 5. Extremity of villus immediately before absorption of chyle
           a
                                                       a
has commenced.  It has cast off its protective epithelium,

and displays, when compressed,                            network of peripheral

lacteals. The granular germs of the absorbing vesicles, as

yet undeveloped, are seen under its primary membrane.

Xvi EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.

Fig.  6, Extremity of a villus, with its absorbent vesicles distended with.

Fig.         chyle, and the trunks of its lacteals seen through its coats.
Fig.  7. Protective epithelium-cells from a villus in the dog.*
      8. Protective epithelium-cells cast off preparatory to absorption of

            chyle ; instead of nuclei, they present, in their interior,

                 groups of globules.

Fig. 9. A group of the same cells adhering by their distal extremities.

Fig. 10. Secreting cells thrown out of the follicles of Lieberkuhn

                 during digestion.
Fig. 11. Diagram of mucous membrane of jejunum when absorption is

          not going on. a. Protective epithelium of a villus. 6.
          Secreting epithelium of a follicle. c e c. Primary membrane,

          /with its germinal spots or nuclei, d d. e. Germs of absorbent
          vesicles.  Vessels and lacteals of villus.

Fig. 12.  Diagram of mucous membrane during digestion and absorption

           of chyle. a. A villus, turgid, erect ; its protective epithelia
           cast off from its free extremity ;t its absorbent vesicles, its
           lacteals and blood-vessels turgid. b. A follicle discharging its

          secreting epithelia.

 PROCESS OF ULCERATION LN ARTICULAR CARTILAGE.

                                 Plate IV. page 389.

Fig. 13. a. A section of articular cartilage and absorbent membrane.
             In the lower part of the section the cartilage -corpuscles

                 retain their natural size and appearance ; as they approach
               the rugged ulcerated edge, they increase in size, and contain
                 numerous young cells, apparently the progeny of their nuclei ;
                 beyond this edge, rounded masses of cells, originally con
               tained within the cartilage-corpuscles, are seen embedded in
                 the cellular absorbent mass.
           b. Absorbent cells of the false membrane, with two globular
                 masses derived from the cartilage-corpuscles.

               SECRETING STRUCTURES.-- Plates IV. V.

                                 Plate IV. page 389.

Fig. 14. Four secreting cells from the ink-bag of Loligo sagittate.
Fig. 1 5. Five cells from the liver of Patella vulgata. In this instance

                 the bile is contained in the cavities of the secondary cells,
               which constitute the nucleus of the primary cell.

    * It may be noted that both in figures 7 and 9 the clear space at the broad free

ends of the columnar intestinal epithelial cells, to which several German anatomists

thave recently directed attention, is figured by the author. -- Eds.
          The author subsequently abandoned the idea that the epithelial cells were
cast off during absorption. -- Eds.

      EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.                                                          XVU

Fig. 16. Three cells from the kidney of Helix asperm. The contained

      secretion is dead white, and presents a chalky appearance.

Fig. 17. Two cells from the vesicles of the testicle of Squalus comubicus.
      tThheenuccolnetuasin--edeabchunsdpleersmaotfozsopoenrmabtoezionag
                                                                           are developed  from
                                                                         a spiral celL

      Plate V. page 412.

Fig. 1. Five cells from the mamma of the bitch. In addition to their

                nuclei, these cells contain milk-globules.                                A

Fig. 2. A portion of duct from the testicle of Squalus comubicus.

      few nucleated cells, the primary or germinal cells of the

Fig.         future acini, are attached to its walls.
      3. The primary cell of an acinus in a more advanced stage. The

             nucleus has produced a mass of young cells. The pedicle

      appears to have been formed by the germinal cell carrying

      forward the wall of the duct. A diaphragm accordingly

Fig.         presents itself across the neck of the pedicle.
Fig.
      4. A primary cell in a more advanced stage.
      5. A primary cell still more advanced.

Fig.  6. Some of the secondary cells, products of the nucleus of the
Fig.        primary cell, are cylindrical, and are arranged in a spiral.

      7. The change into cylinders, and the spiral arrangement com

Fig.         pleted.
      8. a. One of the secondary cells ; its nucleus a mass of young cells.

           6. A secondary cell elongated into a cylinder, each cell of its

             composite nucleus elongated into a spiral. c. The spiral cells

                 or spermatozoa, free.

Fig. 9. A bunch of acini, in various states of development, maturity,

                and atrophy.
             The four following figures are diagrams, arranged so as to illus

               trate the intimate nature of the changes which occur in vesi
               cular glands when in a state of functional activity.
Fig. 10. A portion of gland-duct with two acini. One of the acini is
               a simple primary cell ; the other is in a state of develop

      ment, its nucleus producing young cells.

Fig. 11. Both acini are advancing; the second has almost reached

                 maturity.
Fig. 12 The second acinus is ready to pour out its contents, the first

                to take its place.
Fig. 1 3. The second acinus is in a state of atrophy, the first is ripe.

Fig. 14. Two follicles from the liver of Carcinus mcenas. The colour
               less germinal spot is at the blind extremity of the follicle.
               The secreting cells become distended with bile and oil as

      they recede from the germinal spot.

XVU1      EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.

      THE STRUCTURE OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS.

          Plate V. page 412.

Fig. 15. A portion of the germinal membrane of the human intra-

               glandular lymphatics, with its germinal spots or nutritive
                 centres diffused over it.

Fig. 16. A portion of the same membrane, in which the component

                 flattened cells, with the centres, have been rendered trans
                 parent, and are beginning to separate, by the action of acetic
               acid. Five of the glandular epithelia adhere to the mem
                 brane.

Fig. 17. A diagram of a lymphatic gland, showing the intra-glandular

                 network, and the transition from the scale-like epithelia of
                 the extra-glandular to the nucleated cells of the intra-

Fig. 18.    glandular lymphatics.

          A portion of an intra-glandular lymphatic, showing along one
           edge the thickness of the germinal membrane, and upon it

            the thick layer of glandular epithelia.

   THE STRUCTURE OF THE PLACENTA-- Plates V. VL

                                 Plate V. page 412.

Fig. 19. The extremity of a placental villus.
           a. The external membrane of the villus, the lining membrane
                 of the vascular system of the mother.
            6. The external cells of the villus, cells of the central portion
                 of the placental decidua.

          c c. Germinal centres of the external cells.
           d. The space between the maternal and foetal portions of the
                 villus.

            e. The internal membrane of the villus, the external membrane

     / of the chorion.
                 The internal cells of the villus, the cells of the chorion.

                 The loop of umbilical vessels.
Fig. 20. This drawing illustrates the same structures as the last, and

                 has been'introduced to show the large space which occasionally
                 intervenes between the internal membrane and the external

             cells. It would appear that into this space the matter

                 separated from the maternal blood by the external cells of
               the villus, cast before being absorbed through the internal
               membrane, by the internal cells. This space, therefore,
                 the cavity of secreting follicle, the external cells being the
                 secreting epithelia, and the maternal blood-vessel system the
               capillaries of supply. This maternal portion of the villus,
                 and its cavity, correspond to the glandular cotyledons of the
                 ruminants, and the matter thrown into the cavity to the
               milky secretion of these organs.
          </.

                               is
                                      a

                                                                                                                             is

      EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.                                   xix

Fig. 21. A portion of the external membrane, with external cells of

               the villus.

      a. Cells seen through the membrane.

      b. Cells seen from within the villus.

           c. Cells seen in profile along the edge of the villua.  All the
Fig. 22. The extremity of a villus treated with acetic acid.

      parts are distinctly visible, and the germinal centres of the

                 internal cells are seen surrounding the umbilical vessel.

Fig. 23. A villus with a terminal decidual bar, along the cavity of

      which the external cells are seen to be continued, so as to

      pass forwards in the direction of the parietal decidua.

      Platb VI page 445.

Fig.  1. A portion of the external membrane of a villus, with a lateral
Fig.
Fig.        decidual bar. This portion of membrane is seen from its
            foetal aspect, and in this three or four germinal centres of

             the external cells are perceptible.

      2. A drawing of the extremity of a villus treated with acetic acid.
           In this villus all the parts described are distinctly seen, and
            indicated by the same letters as in Fig. 19, Plate V.

      3. The extremity of a villus, with a terminal decidual bar,

            treated with acetic acid, to show the nuclei of the decidual

            cells in the cavity of the bar, and on the external membrane
            of the villus.

Fig.  4. Two tufts connected by a terminal decidual bar.

Fig.  5. A tuft with a lateral bar passing off from its stem.
Fig.  6. A diagram illustrating the arrangement of the_ placental

              decidua.

      a. Parietal decidua.

      b. A venous sinus passing obliquely through it by a valvular

          opening.

      c. A curling artery passing in the same direction.
      d. The lining membrane of the maternal vascular system,

         passing in from the artery and vein lining the bag of the
          placenta, and covering « e the fcetal tufts, passing on to the

       //latter by two routes, first by their stems from the fcetal side

         of the cavity, and secondly by the terminal decidual bars

          from the uterine side, and from one tuft to the other by the

          lateral bar g. Throughout its whole course this membrane
         is in contact with decidual cells, except along the stems of

          the tufts, and the fcetal side of the placenta, where the

         decidual cells have degenerated into fibrous or areolar fibres.

         All that portion of the decidua which is in connection with
         the bars, villi, and tufts, is the central or functional portion

         of the decidua, and along with the lining membrane of the
         maternal vascular system, or external membrane of the
         tufts, constitutes the true maternal portion of the placenta.

XX EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.

      Two diagrams illustrating the foetal cellular elements of the

      placental tufts. These are the internal membrane, and the in
      ternal cells of the tufts, and along with the loops of umbilical

      blood-vessels constitute the true foetal portion of the placenta.
      1.
THE TESTIS AND ITS SECRETION IN THE DECAPODOUS/(.
                  CRUSTACEANS.-- Plates VII. VIII.
            is
                Plate VII. page 429.
                                    ;
Fig.  Figures of Entozoa from the tubuli seminiferi of Orchestra
                                      I
Fig.  littoralis, probably allied to filaria, and supposed by M.
Fig.
      Kolliker to be the spermatozoa. This opinion, however,

      incorrect, as may be seen in the accompanying draw

      ings, where' figures are given representing all the details

      of the development of the true spermatozoa. These are all

      produced from cells, whereas the entozoa under considera

      tion are never seen within cells, but are in all cases generally

      seen floating free in the seminal vessels. These filaria have

      Ifonly been seen, so far as am aware, in Amphipoda and
      Isopoda.  they are spermatozoa, they must be produced

      from cells and from what has been stated in the text,          ; it
      will be seen that in all the crustacea, these cells, before pro

      ducing the spermatozoa, undergo several metamorphoses

      and that the final changes take place in the spermatheca of

      the female, where the seminal animalcules are produced. In

      Amphipoda and Isopoda, where these supposed filaria exist,
      we always find them high up in the testicle, and not occa
      sionally, but in great numbers. In the tertiary seminal cells

      also, which are floating about among them, not the slightest

      vestige of the worm can be observed.            am inclined to sup
      3 2.
               apose, therefore, that these thread-like worms, supposed by

                 it
                              it

                                                     a

                                                 I
      Kolliker to be spermatozoa, are only parasites.

      Representation of primary germinal cell projecting from the

       wall of the seminal tube. It has just burst, and the young

      secondary cells are escaping and descending the tube during
                                                        ;

      the descent they increase in size, from their nucleus throwing

      off nucleoli, the latter forming the tertiary generation. In
      this figure will be observed that the cell-walls of the

      parent are quite smooth and unbroken, so that in all proba

      bility the young arise from that portion of the cell attached

      to the seminal tube.

      Is small quantity of the fluid from the spermatheca of the

      female crab, showing the tertiary or spermatozoal cells after

      they have burst from the secondary. As described in the

      text, the spermatheca appears to be the organ in which the

      seminal fluid undergoes the final and essential change which

      fits for impregnation.

                EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.        XXI

Fig. 4. This figure shows the adult seminal secondary cells from the
             dilated parts of the seminal tube. They are full of tertiary
             cells. The fluid amongst which they are floating is thick
             and albuminous, much more so than it is higher up or lower

      down the tube, and the large, clear, transparent-looking
      masses, are the pabulum for the nourishment of the cells

      It is much more abundant in this part of the organ than any

      where else, and accordingly great numbers of the secondary
      cells, in all stages of development, are constantly found here.

      If a small quantity of the seminal fluid from that portion of

      the testicle immediately preceding the dilated part be placed
      under the microscope, it will be seen that the nuclei of the se

      condary cells are just throwing off small nucleoli, and that the

      parent cell is not very much larger than when it burst from the
      primary. In the same part also, little or no pabulum is ob
      served. As we proceed downwards, however, we find them

      increasing rapidly in size ; and, at the same time, an immense

      quantity of pabulum floating about in large masses. The

      lower part of the tube and the vas deferens are almost desti

      tute of pabulum, the cells being satiated.

Fig. 5. The secondary cells of Hyas araneus from the vas deferens.
               The walls of the parent cells are remarkably thin. The
               parent secondary cells are of enormous size in this species.

Fig. 6 Represents the testicles of Carcinus mamas, of the natural size,

      and shortly before they have reached the maximum state of

      development. The portion included between a a is the

Fig.         tubular or hepatic, that between b b is the dilated or gastric
Fig.        The vasa deferentia are not seen in this species so well as in

           Hyas araneus, Fig. 8, c c. It is in the gastric division that

            the pabulum lies in such quantities.
      7 Is the internal or sheathed portion of the external organs of

           Cancer pagurus ; proximal extremity.
      8. Testes of Hyas araneus. a a. Tubular portion. b b. Follicular

                 portion. c c. Vasa deferentia.
Fig. 9. External organs of' Cancer Pagurus. a. Is the internal or

               sheathed portion in situ. b. Is the sheath or external portion.

Fig. 10. External organs of Hyas araneus. A. Sheath. B. Sheathed

      portion.

                Plate VIII. page 431.

Fig. 1. First stage of development of secondary seminal cell of Oala-

                   thea strigosa.
Figs. 2, 3, 4. Second, third, and fourth stages of development of the

                 secondary cell.
Figs. 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13. Various stages of development of

                 the secondary cell of lobster.
Figs. 14, 16, 16, 17. The same treated with acetic acid.

XX11                EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.

Fig. 18. Tertiary or spermatozoal cells.

Fig. 19. Secondary cell of lobster seen from armed extremity, to show

          the three setae.

Fig. 20. Primary cell, or cacum of testicle of Pagurus hernhardm full
               of secondary cells. c. Attachment. b. Free extremity. a.

          Nucleus.

Fig. 21. Primary seminal cell of Pagurus bernhardiii filling with se
               condary cells. As already described, these cells grow in pairs

          from discs on the walls of the seminal tubes, and hang free

          in the cavity of the tube. It has also been described how

          the secondary cells are produced from the parent nucleus,

          namely, by means of successive growths, each of which carries

          off a fold of nucleus before it.

      a. Disc from which the primary seminal cells grow.

      6 6. The discs on each side of it.

      c c. The origins of the primary seminal cells.

      d. One of the primary cells cut off.
      e. Nucleus of the primary cell in a state of activity ; it has just

   / thrown off a series of young, marked
           In the diagram.
        g. Are several old walls of former growths.
       h. Full extremity of primary cell.
Fig. 22. A small portion of the testicle of Pagurus bernJiardus magni

              fied, showing the manner in which the caeca hang from the

          walls of the seminal tube.

Fig. 23. Small drop of seminal fluid of lobster, showing the secondary

Fig. 24.    cells before the armature had expanded.
          Small drop of seminal fluid of lobster from vas deferens.

           That part of the figure above a a, as seen under the micro

          scope, presents one dense mass of secondary cells floating

Fig. 25.    down towards 6, where a few are seen separate.

          A ceecum from the testicle of Carcinus mcenas, showing a ger

           minal spot at its apex just being filled with secondary cells.

Fig. 26. The germinal spot enlarged.

REPRODUCTION OF LOST PARTS IN THE CRUSTACEA.
                               Plates IX. XII.

Fig.                          Plate IX. page 471.
Fig.
      1 Represents the raw surface of the proximal or adherent portion
            of the leg of Cancer pagurus, after the animal has thrown off
            the distal portion. The figure represents the parts of the
             natural size, and only a few hours after the separation had
             taken place.

      2 Is a representation of the same part, after the young leg had

          grown to some size. It will be observed that the cicatrix,

            which waB formed upon the raw surface a few hours after

EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.                               Xxiii

separation, has now become very strong, covers the young

               germ, thus acting as a means of defence from external injury.
Figs. 3, 4, 5, Are the same parts in progressive states of development.

Fig. 5 presents a bifurcated character ; probably from some

accidental cause it thus appears smaller than it is in the

normal state.

Fig. 6 Eepresents the raw surface of the leg, already alluded to in

            Carcinus mmnas, some time after separation. A nucleated

               cell is seen in the centre. This drawing was made from a

very small specimen, and was only procured in the stage re

presented after great difficulty.

Fig. 7 Eepresents a longitudinal section of a very young germ, for

the purpose of showing its mode of development. The fibrous-

looking band which surrounds it externally, is a circular canal

which belongs to a system of vessels described in the text.

The four striated bodies which lie next to this canal are the

rudiments of the four joints of the future limb. The striated

appearance arises from the muscles already so far developed,
and the albuminous matter within, and which they enclose,

appears to be pabulum for their farther nourishment. The

more defined globules, which may be observed floating

amongst the albumen, are oil-globules. In the development
of this leg, it will be observed that the external segments, or

those which are  analogous   tfoortmheedt,h--igha  and   first tibial joints,
are largest and  most fully                        fact  we would be led

to expect, from the circumstance of their formative cells being

the first thrown off from the original parent nucleus, and

consequently the first that would take on a central or more

independent action. From a similar mode of development,

we see that the second tibial and tarsal joints are the smallest,

as they are the last formed of the centres. The last or distal

phalanx is the smallest of the internal segments ; those

nearest the circular vessel are the largest, as was to be ex

pected from the centres which formed them, being the oldest

and the first formed from the earlier generations of cells ; and

those again within them are smaller, being formed from the

later generations thrown off by the original parent.

Fig. 8. Cells from the external series represented by c in Fig. 9.

iiFig. 9. Transverse section of raw surface of proximal or attached ex
tremity of the reproductive organ                  leg of Cancer pagurus.

This is the surface and appearance which is seen immediately
upon the leg falling off ; if it is seen half-an-hour, or a little

more, after the separation, it is covered with a thickish film,

which shortly becomes a strong opaque cicatrix hiding every

thing beneath it. The vessels seen in Fig. 15 are also

omitted, for the purpose of showing the structure of the re

productive body more clearly.

XXIV  EXPLANATION OF THE HATES.

         a. Is the circular vessel, of the system of vessels mentioned in
               the text, and it surrounds

        6. A fluid or semi-fluid mass, containing small nucleated cells,

                 from which the germ ia probably derived.
         c. Is a large mass of very large cells surrounding the circular

               vessel, which appear to act as a magazine of nutritive matter

                 for the young germ during its growth.
         d. Is the shell membrane, which is surrounded externally by the

               shell

Fig. 10. A young limb of Carcinus mcenas still enclosed within its

                 original cyst, which is formed probably from the cicatrix

                 mentioned above. Magnified two diameters.
Fig. 11 Is a very young leg of the common lobster. The reproduced

               leg of this species is not enclosed in a cyst, and it is not

                 folded upon itself, but projects straight forward. Nat. size.
Fig. 12 Is a figure of the natural size of one of the large claws of

             Pagurus bernhardus, shortly after it has burst from its con

                 taining cyst.
Fig. 13. Enlarged view of Fig. 11.
Fig. 1 4. One of the large claws of Carcinus mcenas still enclosed within

               the cyst. From observations made, it appears that these
               young legs remain within the cyst until their own covering
               or shell is of sufficient strength to act as a means of defence.

                 They do not obtain a true shell for some time after the cyst

                 has burst.

Fig. 1 5. Raw surface of proximal extremity of leg in Cancer pagurus,
                 shortly after the animal has thrown off the distal portion.
               This figure is made for the purpose of showing the distri
               bution of the peculiar vessels, and their mode of running
               from the circumference towards the circular vessel in the

                   centre.

Fig. 1 6. Longitudinal section of young leg still within the cyst.

             a. Part of old leg containing the reproductive organ.

             6. External cells.

             c. Smaller nucleated cells.

         d d. Cyst of young leg.
           e. Femur of young leg.

         /. First tibial joint of young leg.

           g. Second tibial joint.

             A. Tarsal joint.
Fig. 17. Natural size of young leg.
Fig. 1 8. Portion of blind extremity of one of the peculiar vessels which

            are attached to the blood-vessel running to the leg, Plate XII.

               Fig. 14. The contents are oil-globules, but in the figure

                 have somewhat the appearance of nucleated cells.

Fig. 19; An enlarged view, for the purpose of showing the connection

                 of these vessels.

EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.  XXV

Fig. 20. Two of the blind extremities from raw surface of leg, where
                 they present a clavate appearance.

Fig. 2 1. View of the extremity, showing the dark spot supposed to be

                 a germinal spot.

                                    Plate XII.

Fig. 9. Small longitudinal portion of shell from the large claw of
                 Cancer pagurug, showing the thickness of the annulus or
                 ring in it at the point of separation.

Fig. 12. Longitudinal section of one of the legs of Cancer pagurw,
                 showing the natural position and relations of the reproductive

                   organ.
         a a. Femur.

         b b. Reproductive organ.
           c. Natural appearance of line of separation
              d. Coxa.

Fig. 1 3. Enlarged foramen as it is seen on raw surface after the separa
               tion. This has been hardened in boiling water, which gives
               it a much more defined appearance, and also enlarges it more
               than it naturally should be.

Fig. 14 Is a small portion of the femoral artery, about half-an-inch in
                 extent beyond the line of separation, which is covered as re
                presented by the peculiar vessels.

           a. Distal extremity of blood-vessel.

ON THE ANATOMY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE CYSTIC
                   ENTOZOA.-- Plates VI. X. XL XII.

                                  Plate X. page 476.

  Fig. 1. Magnified view of one of the young of Acepkalocystis armatus
               still attached to the germinal membrane of a secondary

            parent. It is taken from the group shown in Fig. 2, and is

               still in an early stage of development, the circlet of teeth
               atill being minute and not fully developed. The absorbing
                 series of cells may be seen internally.
 Fig. 2. Small portion of the germinal membrane of a secondary parent
               of Acepkalocystis armatus highly magnified.
 Fig. 3. Small portion of germinal membrane of Acepkalocystis armatus
               in a state of degeneration ; nothing is seen in the membrane,
                 which is quite homogeneous, except the small cells figured a.
           b. Is the commencement of one of the cretaceous fatty masses
               described in the text.
 Fig. 4. Several of the stages of development of Cysticercus.
         a. First stage represents spines ; hardly if at all seen.
           h. Their first decided appearance.
           c. Third stage.

                                                                         C

XXvi  EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.

           d. Fourth stage.
Fig. 5. Small portion of the germinal membrane of Acephalocystis

                 annates.

Fig. 6. Small portion, highly magnified, of the granular matter from

                 the cyst of Cysticercus.
Fig. 7. Small portion of the inner surface of the external membrane

               of Acephalocystis armatiix while in a state of degeneration.
Fig. 8. Ovum from the pedicle of Cysticercus.
Fig. 9. Small portion of the germinal membrane of Acephalocystis

                 monroii, highly magnified.

            a. Fibrous basis.

             b. Germinal vesicles.
           c. Secondary acephalocysts within the germinal vesicles ; this

                 portion was taken from the large parent cyst, which is the
               primary animal, buried in the liver ; and each of the smaller
                 vesicles marked c belong therefore to the secondary genera

                 tion, their progeny again being the tertiary generation.
Fig. 10 Is a specimen of Cysticercvs neylectus ruptured at the fundus of

                 the sac, apparently for the escape of the young germs into
                 the cavity of the cyst, where they become attached.
Fig. 11. Small portion of the cyst of Cysticercus neglectus magnified,
                 showing its vascularity, and the mode of attachment of the

                 young Cysticerci to its internal surface.
Fig. 1 2. View from above the pedicle of Cysticercus, showing the dis

               position of the teeth. In all works hitherto published on

                 Helminthology, there has been a great want of proper figures
               or descriptions of the true generic and specific characters of
                 these animals, a point of the utmost importance for obtaining
                 a proper knowledge of them : with this view the author has

                 paid scrupulous attention to the leading characters, and these

                 he has placed in the form of a synopsis at the end of- the

            chapter. All the drawings have been made with the view of

                 illustrating these characters more fidly. The disposition of

                 the teeth, and their forms, are perhaps the most certain ex
                 ternal characters.

Fig.                        Plate XL page 482.

Fig.  4. Magnified view of a small portion of the external or tubular
Fig.         membrane of Diskostoma accphajocystis.

        a. Larger disc.
        b. Smaller one on its surface.
        c. Tubuli.
        d. Extremities of tubes.
      e e. Gemmules, which at this stage of development may act as

              absorbents.
      5. Natural size of Diskostoma acephalocystis.
      (i. Diskostoma acephalocystis in various stages of development.

           EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.                                                   XXV11

     a a a. Small cells arising from the attached surface of the tubular
               membrane. This is the manner in -which the original group
               increases in size.

            b. More advanced.
           c. First stage of second mode of development, or that for the

                 extending of the parasite to as yet uninfested parts of the
                 body, for the purpose of forming new groups.

              d. Second stage.

           e. Third stage.
          /. Root where the original germ became fixed.
            g. External or tubular membrane.
Fig. 10. Section of Astmna acephalocystis, showing its internal structure

                        Plate XII. page 487.

Fig. 1. Portion of sac of Cysticercus, much magnified.

      a. Absorbing cells of absorbing membrane.

      6 b. Separate ova, after their escape from the pedicle.

Fig. 2. Cysticercus neylectus very much magnified.

Fig. 3. Small portion of omentum containing Cysticercus neghclus,

           showing the bodies considered to be young Cysticerci attached ;

Fig.         the omentum has been folded over, and the young (a) are seen
             attached to the fold.

      4. The natural size of the animal supposed to be a new Caenurus --

           Cicnurus lupaticus.

Fig. 5. Magnified view of the head of AcephaJocystis armatus in a more

           advanced stage than the former figure.

Fig. 6. The germinal membrane from which it was taken.

Fig. 7. The absorbing membrane of cyst of Cysticercus rattus highly

           magnified.

Fig. 8. Teeth of Cysticercus rattus highly magnified.

Fig. 1 0. Ovum of Cysticercus rattus highly magnified.

Fig. 1 1 . Ova from pedicle of Cysticercus rattus higldy magnified.

                        Plate VI. page 445.

Fig. 8. Gymnorhynchus horridus within its cyst.

Fig. 9.                                         exposed.

Fig. 10. First stage of Canurus cerebralis.

Figs. 11, 12, 13, 14. Second, third, fourth, and fifth stages of the dis-
           coidal period of development of Corn urns cerebralis.

Fig. 1 5. One of the first stages in the vertical period of development.

Fig. 1 6. fiphairidion acephalocystis higldy magnified.

Fig. -7. Neuronaia monroii.
         6.                                     Goodsir.)

                                           (J.
      o. Suctorial mouth.

           Acetabulum.

       c.  Orifice of organs, supposed          to   bseigrmeporidodaluc"tivceis.terna  chyli"
      d.   Posterior orifice, by which          the

      e. Opens, and apparently also,

XXV111  EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES.

        /. The thick-walled peculiar sac.
        g. Pyriform sac, a receptacle for the ova.
        i. Male organs.

                The figure also presents the arrangement of the dermal
            spines, and the general form of the animal.

                          Plate XI. page 482.

Fig. 2. The anterior extremity and suctorial mouth of Xevronaia

        monroii more highly magnified.

Fig.    7. The cyst of Neuronaia monroii in a bundle of nervous fila
             ments. The fissured appearance of the cyst, with its epithelia,

             is represented in this drawing.

               I am inclined to believe that the function of the cyst in

        this and the other Cystic Entozoa is to supply nourishment

        to the enclosed animal, drawing it from the surrounding

        parts, and throwing it into the cavity, the structure and

        action being identical with that in the encysted tumours as

        already described.

          IThe bulbous extremities of the cysts of Trichina spiralis

        contain masses of germinating cells, to which am inclined

        to attribute the same function.

Figs.  8, 9, 11. The clavate extremities of the cysts of Trichina tpiralit,
             with their germinating absorbent cells.
                 The epithelium and absorbent cells of the cysts of the

             entozoa may be considered as permanent yelk-cells in the

        economy of these persistent embryos.

Figs. 1 and 3. Magnified drawings* of Sarcina vcntricvli described, but

        Ibadly figured by me in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical
        Journal, No. 151.   am still of opinion, notwithstanding

        the arguments of Mr. Busk, in the Microscojrical Journal. that

        this body is a vegetable parasite, its sudden occurrence and

        sudden disappearance being not more extraordinary than the

        rapid development of many cellular structures ; the glandular

        epithelium, for instance, during secretion.  That it is a

        IGonium, as has been suspected by Professor Link, appears to

        me improbable, as would be admitted, believe, by that

        great botanist, if he had had an opportunity of observing its

        peculiar vegetable aspect, so different from that of an in

        fusorial animal.

                  DIVISION I.
DEVELOPMENT AND MORPHOLOGY.



Voljt  Piate. 1

            DIVISION I.

L--ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE
       PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH--
       Plate I.

    " Il est peu de sujets en médecine sur lesquels on ait tant écrit que sur les

dents ; deux cent volumes contiendraient à peine tout ce qu'on en a imprimé !
Mais est-ce à dire que tout soit connu à cet égard ? Est-ce à dire que la

matière ait été épuisée et qu'il ne reste plus rien à faire? Nullement.
L'Anatomie n'a pas encore le dernier mot de la nature sur cet intéressant
sujet et il reste encore, quoiqu'on en dise, quelques doutes à eelaircir et
plus d'une difficulté à résoudre." --Blandin, Anat. du Système Dentaire, 1836.

Section I.--Examinations of the Dental Arches at
                          Different Ages.

    1. An embryo (Fig. 1), which measured 7i lines from the

vertex to the point of the coccyx, weighed 15 grains,
and appeared to be about the sixth week,* was selected
and prepared for the purpose of examining the state

* It is difficult to determine the exact age of an embryo. The

ages given in the text, therefore, must be considered as approxi-  8- I-

mations, being probably rather under-rated. I have given a full-sized sketch

of the youngest subject m which I have observed any of the phenomena of

dentition, with the weight and measurements of a few of the others. In

researches of this kind, the sequences  of phenomena are of more importance
than their periods of appearance.       Humaine ; Breschet, Etudes Anatomi-

     Velpeau, Embryologie ou Ovologie

ques, etc. , de Voeuf dans V espèce Humaine : Soemmering, Icônes Embryonum

Sumanorum.

                                        H

2 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

of the palate and dental arches. The cheeks were divided

transversely from the commissures of the lips with fine scis

sors ; the jaws were separated, removed, and fixed to the
bottom of a small capsule full of water. The point of the

tongue was removed. The configuration of the mouth was

then determined by means of a half-inch lens and two needles,

bent at the points, and fixed in slender handles.
     Upper Jaw. --The roof of the mouth was bounded an

teriorly and laterally by the free edge of the lip (a, Fig.             2),

which  at this age thin and of great transverse extent.
       a is
                           a
Within the lip (a), but separated from by groove (b),
                                          d)
to be more particularly described afterwards, there was
                                                  a it
observed lobe of horse-shoe shape (c), narrow anteriorly at
                                                                     ;
the median line, broader, flatter, and of rounded form on
                                                              it, a
each side posteriorly. Coming out from above the internal

                              ...a posterior edges of this lobe (c), and
                              -- c firmly adhering to
                                                                        two other

                              .*.. ,/ lobes (d were seen flat, rounded,k

                              -- e and curving backwards and in-
                              "J> wards posteriorly, gradually dis

                                          appearing by pointed extremities

anteriorly. From the posterior extremities of each of the

lobes now described                       d), and of the horse-shoe lobe (c),
a
                                      (d
thin semitransparent membranous fold                   passed back
                                          (e
                                                e)

                                                                        a
ward on each side, attached externally to the sides of the

capacious buccc-pharyngeal cavity, bounded internally by

free edge opposed to its fellow of the opposite side, and

terminating posteriorly on the lateral walls of the pharynx.

Adhering to the inferior surface of each of these folds was

(//)seen smaller lobe                     somewhat similar to the two last,
a
              a
and situated little behind them. The needle placed under

the folds showed that they were free and floating, except at

their exterior or adherent edges, and that they constituted             a
partial division of the large common nasal, buccal, and pharyn

        PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.                                                                       3

geal cavity into a superior and an inferior compartment. The

upper wall of this common cavity was smooth and flat pos

teriorly (g) ; but anteriorly it was contracted and terminated

in a longitudinal bar (h), which ran forwards to be attached

to the superior surface of the horse-shoe lobe at the median

line, and to the other parts in that neighbourhood. Under

the bar (A) a deep cavity (i i) was seen, which communicated

with the exterior of the face by two small foramina, which

constituted at this period the whole external nasal organ. As

before-mentioned, a groove was observed between the Up
      a
               (b)
                                                           (b)

                                                                                                      (c
                                                                                                            e).

                                                                                                   (k
                                                                                             k)
(a) and the external edge of the horse-shoe lobe (c). This

groove  was deep, and its walls and lips were in close

apposition. It terminated posteriorly on each side                                                               by

becoming more shallow, and curving backwards and inwards

on the inferior surface of the membranous folds              There

was median frenum between the lip and the horse-shoe

lobe.

    Lower Jaw.-- The under lip (a, Fig. 3), resembled the upper,

and was separated along its whole

extent by groove (6) similar to
      (c)                                           r^
            a

                   (d
                                   (e a

                                               e),
the one above, from semicir-

cular lobe (c). Anteriorly this

lobe    was divided into two

median large              d), and two la

teral smaller lobules                               the whole being firmly adherent

to the floor of the mouth in front of the tongue and its

frenum, which were both well developed. The lateral parts

of the lobe were rather indistinct, but at the point where(c)

the free edge of the lip terminated,                    extended transversely
                                                    it
and posteriorly, became thick and bulbous (//), and exhibited
                                                          a
on its surface narrow shallow groove of sigmoidal form g),   (g
      a
                       a
which was continuous with the groove behind the lip. There

was median labial frenum.

On the external sides of the membranous folds in the

4 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE1\
    a
upper, and of the posterior parts of the lobe in the lower jaw,2.
the cut surfaces of the cheeks made by the scissors were seen
             1).
(1 1, 1

      The mucous membrane over its whole extent was thin, and
of greyish-yellow colour, the lobes granular, very friable, and
of a dead white. The breadth of the upper alveolar archkwas

     line, and the length of the same was line.
                                      1
                                                  1
                The jaws of an embryo which measured inch, weighed

20 grains, and appeared to be about the seventh week, were

prepared and examined as in the former case.               was not
     Upper Jaw. -- The free edge of the lip (a, Fig.
                                                (e)
                                                       4)
                           so extended as at the sixth week.

                           The horse-shoe lobe        had become

                           broader and more developed pos

                           teriorly, and anteriorly exhibited

                           three lobules, one median (m), and

                           two lateral and anterior n). The
                           two lobes observed on each side of
                                                      (n
                                                                        (d
                           the palate in the former embryo
                  Fig. 4.             Fig. 2), had disappeared, hav
                           ; d,f
                                f,
ing apparently coalesced the posterior one (/) being curved

forwards to join the anterior (d), in the point Fig. while
                                                (s,
                                                              4),

the combined mass had contracted itself towards the front

of the mouth within the limits of the horse-shoe lobe (c).
     The cleft had slightly diminished, but was still of sufficient

width to display the whole of the undivided nasal cavity.

The lip (a) was so lax as to admit of being moved by the

middle. The horse-shoe lobe         could also be pressed by the
                                    (c)
                                                  a

                                                                                         a
same means inwards and backwards. When these two parts

were separated, the mucous membrane was seen to form

duplicature (b), between the lips and ridge (o), which ex
tended from the posterior part of the dental arch to the outer

extremity of the lateral lobule (n).

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.                              5

     The median portion of the dental arch was formed by
the two lateral lobules (n n), which separated the lips from
the median lobule (m), and extended also a little on each side
of
it.
                               a
The lateral portions of the arch presented externally the

ridge (o), formerly mentioned, smooth and convex on its exter

nal surface, internally moulded into three curves, the anterior

long and shallow, the second deeper, the third or posterior

almost semicircular. Behind the last curve, the internal edge

of the ridge formed deep notch, which swept outward and

forward, so as to mould the former into an almost isolated

lobule (j). The ridge now disappeared, but its edge continued

backwards and inwards, winding around the posterior extremity

of the horse-shoe lobe (c), so as to form groove         Figs.
                                                a
and 4), on the surface of the soft mucous membrane. The in     a (k

ternal division of the lateral parts of the dental arch was            5- ';, k,
                                                                            #
formed by three bulgings, apparently productions from the                            2
horse-shoe lobe (c), and which were separated from the curves
of the ridge (0), by groove which was deeper at their sides
than in their intervals. The anterior one was lengthened and
indistinct, the middle one was more developed, the posterior
circular, convex, and altogether isolated. The isolation of this
a
                   a

                           (r) a
bulging was produced by longitudinal lobule (r), apparently

cut off from the external edge of the horse-shoe lobe (c), and

forming partial inner ridge corresponding with the outer

one. This new lobule              reached back

as far as the posterior extremity of the

horse-shoe lobe (c), and terminated an
teriorly near the middle of the centre

bulging.                                        a-

    Lower Jaw. --In the situation of the

dental arch, there existed groove (h,               *·*
                                  a

Fig. 5), very distinct posteriorly, but having no outer lip an

teriorly. The inner lip (7/1), presented posteriorly large lobe

G ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

(»), under which the needle was easily inserted for a short

distance. In the middle, this lip (m) was thin, elevated, and
curved over the groove (h). Anteriorly it became broader,
and curved still more over the groove, and was divided into

two median larger lobules (d), and two lateral smaller (<).

Between the two median (d) there was a notch at the attach

ment of the lingual frenum. The outer lip (/) was defi

cient anteriorly, so that the groove was bounded in that

situation by the under lip (a), which was loose, free, and

turned outwards. Posteriorly the outer lip (/) was well de

veloped, and came out from under the posterior lobe (n) of the

inner lip, so as to render the grove (h) pointed, and curved

backwards and inwards. This lip (/) extended only about

half-way towards the median line, and appeared flat, or in the

same continuous plane with the floor of the groove. It was

also curved outwards, so as to overhang the labial mucous

membrane.

The groove presented an elevation            of its floor near its
                 a
                                 (o)
posterior extremity. There was labial frenum. The mucous

membrane possessed the same physical properties as at the

sixth week. The lobes were not so granular, but tougher and

                                             1j
more consistent. Breadth of superior arch line, length  1.

       The jaws of an embryo at the second month, having
     3.
  ,,             «-f^^X/«Deen prepared in the usual man-
tion.     J,
                 ner, presented the following ap
              /  pearances --
                 6)

                                       :
                 Upper Jaw. -- The lip           (a,    Fig.

                 was more movable, and its free

                 edge less extended. The cleft in

                 the palate had diminished, exist

                 ing only as small angular defi-
                                          a

              Fls ciency (x) in the pendulous por
       The horse-shoe lobe was still perceptible under the

        PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.                         7

form of a bulging (c), represented as turned aside to ex

hibit the objects under it. The lobule (-r) had increased
in size, so as to extend further backwards, and to appear

on the posterior lateral parts of the palate. The median

lobule (to) had become triangular, the anterior edge being
formed by the curve of the palate somewhat pointed in front,

the lateral edges being straight and meeting in an angle

behind, from which the median line of suture or raphe of the

palate proceeded. The median lobule (m) had increased re

latively, the lateral lobules                         only absolutely. The
                                           (re
posterior portion of the dental groove (k) was longer, wider,re)
and not so much curved.
                                                       a
     The bulging or papilla (1) was more distinctly isolated       ;
and at the anterior extremity of the second curve in the ridge

(0), another papilla (2) had appeared as production from the    a
latter. This papilla (2) was bounded externally by lamina
(p), which was also production from the edge of the ridge
                     a

(o), and was notched at its inner margin, where was applied
                                                          a
to the side of the papilla.
                                                            it
The dental groove then terminated in point, at the outer
                                                      a

extremity of the lateral lobule (re). There was labial frenum.
     Lower Jaw. --The posterior portion of the dental groove

had undergone no material change,

but had become deeper, and con                        v^\\v\\j^MN'f^- N^'^)J
tained in the situation of the ele-

                  (o,                    distinct  '
                      (1,                    Fur

                               5),
                                   a
                                      7).
vation marked Fig.

rounded papilla      Fig.

ther on, another papilla (2) bounded

externally by notched lamina (a)a                         Flg- 7-

had appeared.        This combined papilla and lamina              was
                                                                   that
exactly similar in its configuration and relations to

        (2,
                          6).

                                                  it
marked         Fig.          The anterior part of the groove

had become more distinct, not because                     had acquired an

outer lip, but because its floor had risen above the level

8 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

of the labial mucous membrane. There was a labial frenum.
The breadth of the superior arch was If- line ; length 1£.

4 The jaws of an embryo nine weeks old were examined

under water.

     Upper Jaw. --No material change had taken place in the

          $?            configuration of the palate, except that

                        the median lobule (m, Fig.(3            had di
                                                           8),
                        minished relatively, and in the trans

                        verse direction, while the lateral

                        lobules (n) had increased relatively,
                        and also in the transverse direction.

                        (x) A     longitudinal lobule (y), had also
                             appeared on the surface of the

                             median lobule (m).     The cleft

          Fig. 8.              in the soft palate was smaller.

The posterior part of the dental groove was wider. - The
papilla (1), had become more prominent, and the lips of

the groove had almost met before and behind it. The papilla

is                 little further on, corresponding with the

             A
(2) larger.

lateral lobule (n), on each side, two papillae   and 4), with

notched laminae in front of them, had appeared. The centrals

(3), or those on each side of the median line, were the

most distinct.

    Lower Jaw.--The lips of the dental groove had approached

so as to require separation by the
needle to exhibit its contents dis

tinctly. The papilla or Fig.
                        (1
had undergone little change, but two(3 2,
                                              4) 9)
very indistinct bulgings       and
                                                                                                           ;
had appeared on each side of the

labial frenum, the centrals (3) being the

largest. The breadth of the superior arch was 1$ line                                                         the
\\length
          line.

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.                                                               9

    5. In an embryo of the tenth week the following ap
pearances presented themselves :--

     Upper Jaw. --Very little change had taken place in the

lateral lobules (n, Fig. 10), or

the median (m) and its additional
lobule (y). They had all increased

absolutely, and if any relative change

had taken place, it was in the trans-

verse diminution of the median (wi)
and the movement forward of its

additional lobule (y). The palate

had advanced anteriorly, so as not             Fig. 10.
only to have encroached in some de

gree upon the median and lateral lobule, but also to have

thrown itself into folds immediately behind them. The outline

of the horse-shoe lobe (which is represented in the sketch as
turned- aside to exhibit the dental groove), was still observed.

There was an indistinct uvula. The papillae (1 and 2) had
sunk completely into follicles, and could only be seen by

looking into the open mouths of the latter. The mouth of

(1) was bordered by four laminae or lids, that of (2), by three,
as represented in the sketch. The papillae (3 and 4) had not
increased much, but their notched laminae had become more

                        distinct. At the posterior extremity of the

          floor of the dental groove, on the inner side

          of the lobule
4,                                      Figs.  10), slight

               .L

                                              (5,

                                             (j,

                                                                        4,
                                                                             6,
                                                                                  8,
                                                                                              a
          bulging Fig. 10) was seen.
               The upper lip had receded in the neigh

          bourhood of the median line, so as to have

           disappeared almost entirely at that spot,
          -the centre of the upper dental arch being

Fig. 11.  exposed.

Lower Jaw. --The bulgings on each side of the median line

(3, Fig. 11), which were so indistinct in the last subject,

10 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

had become well developed and inclosed in follicles, through

the mouths of which they were seen. A similar change

was observed in reference to the papilla (2). The follicles
had been produced by the stretching across of productions

from the outer lip (which was very indistinct) towards
similar but much smaller productions from the inner lip

(which was still very prominent). The lines of junction
of the septa were visible, and the mouths of the follicles pre

sented an unfinished appearance. The papilla (1) had become
surrounded by an incomplete follicle, in consequence of the
production of a notched lamina from the outer lip of the
groove, which lamina was almost met by a smaller ship of
membrane from the inner lip. The breadth of the superior

arch was 2 lines, length 11 line.

6. 11th or 12th week. -- Upper Jaw.--The median lobule

          (m, Pig. 12) had diminished so much
          transversely, as to have become an-

          tero-posterior ; while its supplement

          ary lobule had become attached to the

          frenum of the lip. The lateral lobules

Flg- 12-  (n) had increased much transversely,
          and appeared each to be divided into

an anterior and a posterior portion. They were compressed

by the true palate, which was folded at this part, as at
the tenth week, into wrinkles, the longest and anterior
of which stretched across the median line from the right

2,                                     with their fol
                                                                        a

                                                                                 4),
                                                                                                        (1
to the left side. The papillae (3 and

licles, were fully developed. The other two papillae                                                        and

    Fig. 10) had not undergone much change, but the small
bulging (5, Fig. 10) had now become distinct papilla, and
its follicle had begun to show itself. The uvula was well

marked.

    Lower Jaw. -- The lines of junction of the interfollicular

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.                                                                       11

septa had almost disappeared, and the mouths of the follicles

had become more distinct. The mouths

of the three anterior follicles had an an

terior lip, the free edge of which was

directed somewhat inwards. It was ne

cessary to lift up this lip with the needle

to obtain a view of the contained papilla.
At the posterior part of the dental groove,

another papilla with a notched lamina,

7.
                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                     2.
                                                                                                (5,
both productions from the external lip, had appeared                                                     Fig.

13). Breadth of superior arch 12i lines length,

        13th week. -- Upper Jaw. --There was little change in

the configuration of the palate since the former week. The
lobe running across the median line was still visible. The
frenum of the upper lip had become closely attached to, and
continuous with, the median lobule. The outlines of the
horse-shoe lobe were still perceptible, and on its external side
the lobule, all along marked (r), was visible. The outer lip of
the dental groove, or the external alveolar process, was equally
developed all around. The upper lip was still much retracted.
There were ten papillae inclosed in open-mouthed follicles, and
ranged at nearly equal distances all around the dental groove.*
The four anterior papillae were flattened from before back
wards with straight edge, and were somewhat similar to
the future incisive teeth. The next one on each side was

simple cone. The two posterior on each side were also
conical, but flattened transversely, so as considerably to
resemble carnivorous molars. Each of these papillae ad
hered by its base to the fundus, while its apex, as during
the eleventh and twelfth weeks, presented itself at, or, as
in the present instance, protruded from, the mouth of its
a

                                                                                                p.
                                                                                                              p.

                                                                                          a
* Arnold, Saldmrg Med.-Chirurg. Zeitung, 1831, Erster Baud,                                              236.

Valentin, Handbuch der Entioicielungs-gcschiclitc des Afenschen,  482.

12 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

follicle. The point of the needle could be introduced through
the mouth, so as to move the papilla about in the interior of

the follicle.

By removing the outer lip of the dental groove, and the

outer wall of all the follicles by the scissors, a good view was

               . obtained of the configuration of these

-^^m^^]s j             P^s (Fig. 14). The follicles were
                 j} *
                       observed to be mere duplications of
Fig- ".
                       the membrane of the groove, and

consequently of the general gastro-intestinal mucous membrane.

The inner surface of the follicles was of a greyish-yellow

colour. The papillae had increased relatively so as to protrude

from the mouths of their follicles. They were granular, friable,

and of a dead-white colour.

    Lower Jaw. --No remarkable change had taken place in

the lower jaw, except in the relative enlargement of the papillae,

and in the distinct development of the follicle of the posterior

papilla Fig. 13). The outer lip of the dental groove was not
very distinctly marked, but the inner was well developed.

The breadth of the superior arch was lines, and the length
8.
was also lines.3 (5,
                                                                         3

                                                                                      a
        14th week. -- Upper Jaw. --The median lobule had

undergone little change, the lateral lobules had become
broader from before backwards, apparently in consequence of
the retraction of the palate, which, instead of exhibiting on
its anterior part the confused transverse wrinkles formerly
mentioned, presented on its lateral divisions (corresponding
to the horse-shoe lobe) four or five parallel rugae, which were
apparently remains of the wrinkles. The upper lip had
again become full, so that its free edge was on level with
the surface of the palate. The soft outer' edges of the palate

and the anterior edges of the lateral lobules were now closely
applied to the outer lip of the dental groove, so as to close tbe

          PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.             13

latter in a valvular manner. When these edges-- viz. the
continuous semicircular outline of the whole palate--were
                                             groove and   its contents--
raised    by the     needle, the dental     were seen.
viz. tea   papillae   in their follicles--               It was observed

that the follicles had increased relatively, the papillae only
absolutely, in consequence of which the latter, instead of pro
jecting from, had receded within, the mouths of the former.
The mouths of the follicles had apparently become smaller.
This had arisen in consequence of the greater development of
the laminae which were seen in the earlier
stages. There were two, an anterior and a
posterior, for the four anterior follicles ; three,
an internal and two external for the third on
each side ; and four for the two posterior on
each side (Fig. 15). Close upon the inner
side of the mouth of each of the follicles
there was observed a little depression in the
form of a crescent, its concave edge being to
wards the former. These depressions were most distinctly
marked at the four or six anterior follicles, where they
were situated immediately behind their inner lips (a a a

aa)-                                                     The lami.na of
     Lmtxr Jaw.-- The papilla had receded.

the follicles were more developed (Fig. 16).

Little depressions or lunulae had appeared
similar to those in the upper jaw. When
the membrane of the dental groove with

its adherent follicles and their pulps,
was stripped off, the dental nerves and vessels were found
running along under the follicles, and distributing vascular
branches and a nervous twig to each of them (Fig. 14).
                     individual follicles, with its papula, vascular
Each of    the        nervous twig, exactly resembled a large hair-
branches,  and
bulb with its nerve and vessels exposed after the hair has

  14 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

  been extracted.   Breadth of the superior arch, 3i lines ;
  length, 3 lines.

    9. 15th week. -- Upper Jaw. -- The outer edges of the

  palate, which in the last embryo lay unattached on the outer
  lip of the dental groove, in the present subject adhered firmly

    it,                                                                                           Fig. 17).

                                   a

                                                                 (r

                                                                                            (a,
                                                                                               t),
  to except along small portion posteriorly

                    This adhesion was firm anteriorly on

                    both sides of the median line, then

                    became weaker, and posteriorly at

                    the non-adherent portion (a), be

                    tween the lobules and the lips

                    of the groove retained their original

                    smooth edges. When the lips of this

    Fig. 17.        non-adherent portion were separated

  by the needles, its floor and walls exhibited nothing but the

  greyish-yellow mucous membrane of the original groove. The

  outer lip of the dental groove was visible all around the ex

  ternal margin of the palate, and was divided on both sides

  into three parts, an anterior («), lateral (o), and posterior
                    a
                                      a

                                                    a
                                                           (y,
                                                          (u
a8(t). On the inner side of the latter was seen the longitudinal
  lobule, which has hitherto been marked (r). The median
  lobule (m) was rounded anteriorly, and had process Figs.

    and 10), which stretched forwards between the lobules it).

  This was the additional lobule formerly mentioned. The sides

  of the median lobule were straight and converged to its pos

  terior extremity, which was circular, and was received into

    curve in the middle of transverse band, constituting the
                    a
                                           (n
                                                                       a
  anterior boundary of the palate, which appeared to have re

  ceded still more than in the last subject, and to have exposed

  still more completely the lateral lobules n). The four rugas
  seen in the last subject had become ridges beautifully crenated,

  and converging, as represented in the sketch, towards curve,

  reversed and opposite to the one formerly mentioned in the

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.         15

middle of the transverse band of the palate. This last curve

was the result of the anterior junction of the lobes (d d, Fig.
and was traced through all its phases to its present state.
The median suture of the palate proceeded from posteriorly.
The dental groove being torn open means of the needles,
      by
                      it
                                                  2),

its lips were found to have adhered pretty firmly, as before

mentioned, but feeble adhesion only had taken place betweena
its walls so as to allow its contents to be restored to their
original condition by means of blunt instrument. This was
   a

carefully done under water, and the mouths of all the follicles
with their laminae were displayed. The latter were more
developed than in the last subject, and completely concealed
the papilla. The former required to be lifted up in order to

display the latter. Careful observation during the separation
of the contents of the groove disclosed the important fact that
the general adhesion had not obliterated the little crescent-
shaped depressions behind the mouths of the follicles. These
retained the smooth greyish-yellow colour of the walls of the
original groove, and from this circumstance could be distin
guished from the general flocculent appearance of the other

parts.

    Lower Jaw.--The outer Up of the dental groove had in

creased in size, and was as prominent as the inner, except
posteriorly, where the latter still retained its posterior lobe
but the most remarkable change which
a
                                                                                         (
                                                                                                                                  ). ;
had taken place since last week was        o, Fig. 18
the complete adhesion of both lips, as
in the upper jaw, with the exception of

   small portion posteriorly, which still
retained the peculiar appearance of the
dental groove, and in which nothing could
be seen but the smooth mucous membrane

"When the dental groove was torn open, as was done in the
upper jaw, the laminae (which were highly developed) of the

(a,16 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE
                       a
follicles, and the walls of the groove, were found to be rough
and fiocculent from adhesions, with the exception of the littlea
depressions formerly mentioned, which still retained their ori;
ginal appearance.
                          it
      Breadth of the superior arch, 5 lines ; length, 4 lines.
                                               a
     10. 16th week. -- Upper Jaw. -- The palate retained thea
appearance it had in the last subject, with the exception of

the median lobule, which had become narrow in front, and
broad posteriorly. The raphe of the dental groove had become
firmer, so as to give a much more defined and permanent ap
pearance to the non-adherent portion posteriorly, which was
now seen to great advantage, its fine greyish mucous mem
brane gradually running at its edges into the white tough
substance of the palate and gums.

     Having separated the lips of the non-adherent portion
                            Fig. 19), papilla, sunk in an open fol

                      licle, with three or four laminae, was visible
                       (6). The membrane of the palate and max
                       illary arch being stripped from the bone, and
                      its surface of adhesion examined, lines cor
responding with the sutures of the bones were observed one
the median, another the intermaxillary, and third with the
palato-maxillary. Five tooth-sacs were also observed on both
sides of the maxillary arch. These were divided into three
groups, two in the first or anterior, one in the second, and two
in the third or posterior. These groups were covered with
fiocculent spongy membrane, which was easily stripped off by
the forceps, and when this was carefully done, became evident
that the sacs which were formerly grouped together by this
membrane were individually isolated, and formed of thin
grey diaphanous membrane, similar to the one formerly men
tioned as covering the bottom of the dental groove, and con
stituting the membrane of the follicles. The careful detach

         PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.                                                                 17

ment of the external spongy membrane from the posterior
group showed, what was not at first observed, that there was
at the posterior part of the posterior sac another very small
one, which by careful examination was seen to be the fundus
of the open follicle in the non-adherent portion of the dental

groove.

     The adhesion of the lip and walls of the groove had now
become so strong, that it was impossible to separate them.

The only way, therefore, in which its contents could be

examined was by transverse sections. When these sections

were made between the different sacs, they displayed scarcely

any traces of the dental groove ; but when they passed through

any place perpendicular to the surface of the gum, and near to

the middle of any of the sacs, they exhibited the appearances

represented in the marginal sketch (Fig. 20).   The deciduous
tooth pulp (a), which was lately a free pa

pilla ; (b), the section of its sac, which was

a follicle when the pulp was a papilla ; (d),
the line of adhesion of part of the walls

of the dental groove leading from the shut

sac to (c), the raphe of the groove ; (c), the section of the
non-adherent portion of the groove in the situation of

the lunula, which existed behind (/), the inner laminae

of the sac (b), in its former follicular condition. From the
consideration of this section (Fig. 20), the mode in which

the original follicle, the non-adherent depression behind

the inner laminae, and the walls of the dental groove, were

connected after full adhesion of all the neighbouring parts,

will be easily understood. The little cavity                                                                adhered by
a

                it
                                                                                                       (e)
its anterior and inferior extremity to the line of adhesion

(d), so that and the sac of the milk-tooth were both con

nected to the raphe of the edges of the dental grooves by lines

of attachment, which resembled two petioles proceeding from

common footstalk. These lines of attachment were not

18 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

tubular, but resisted all efforts to push a fine probe or bristle

through them ; they were merely opaque remains of the sur
faces of junction contrasting with the semitransparent

substance of the gums. Parallel sections through all the sacs

exhibited similar appearances. When the contents of the sacs

were examined, the pulps were found to have acquired the

configuration of the bodies of the future teeth. The bases by

which the molar pulps formerly adhered to the bottoms of

their sacs, and which may be denominated their primary bases,
had become almost divided into three secondary bases, which

corresponded with the internal and two external fangs of the

future teeth. This division was so far accomplished by the

advancement of the internal grey membrane of the sac, under
the form of small compressed canals between the base of the

pulp and the external spongy membrane. These canals, which
were three in number, one external and two internal, did not

meet in the middle under the pulp. Deposition of tooth-sub

stance (Zahn-substanz) had commenced on the edges and
tubercles.

The sacs were twice as large as their contained pulps, and

in the space  a (g,  Fig. 20), which existed between them, there

was observed very soft flocculent gelatinous substance, which

had no attachment to the pulp, and did not appear to adhere

to any part of the sacs, except the laminae and the parts ad

joining them.                   of the dental groove was not
                                The open portion (a, Fig. 18),
    Lower Jaw.--The adhesion

so strong as in the upper jaw.

was fully defined, and exhibited on its floor the orifice of

follicle, containing papilla. In other respects the lower was
                     a
                                          7

                                                               ;
                                                                             5

                                                                                                    a
similar to the upper jaw.

Breadth of superior arch lines length lines.

     11. 5th month. -- Foetus minutely injected with size and

vermilion.

PULTS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.                                                     19

Upper Jaw. --The lobes                 u, Fig. 21) had become
                             (t,
                                   o,
                                     a
                                                                        u
highly developed. The anterior one

(u) was convex anteriorly, with

sharp edge directed backwards, and

corresponded with the incisive teeth.

The central lobe  (o)  had become

shorter, but more prominent, like
                             (t)
canine tooth. The posterior          a
                             had

united firmly with the longitudinal                                        Flg' 21-
lobe all along marked (r), so as to

close the open portion of the groove      (a,  Fig. 17), which

was described in the two last subjects. The raphe of the

groove between these two lobes was serrated, and vessel
                                                                           a
was seen traversing each denticulation. The raphe then ran                       ; (o

close along the inner edges of the bases of the lobes and

u). The median lobule was triangular, the base posterior the
apex in front continuous with the labial frenum, and situated

between the anterior pointed extremities of the lobules, (u, u).
The lateral lobules were very distinct. The other less im

portant changes which had taken place in the palate may be

understood by comparing Figs. 21 and 17.

The membrane of the palate, with the sacs of the teeth,

was removed from the bone. The fundus of the follicle (6,

Fig. 19), had now assumed the appearance of sac, and the
                                        it

                                                            a
other ten, instead of being grouped, had become isolated.

The branch of the dental artery, which supplied each of the

sacs and their pulps, was seen, when reached the fundus of

the former, to give off number of twigs, which, radiating
                       a

from their common centre, proceeded perpendicularly towards

the gum, near which they inosculated with others proceeding

from it. The combined vessels then formed pretty minute
                                               a

network in the spongy membrane formerly described.

Transverse sections were now made by the scissors through

all the sacs. The general appearance of these sections was

a20 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE
                          it,
similar to that of those at the fourth month ; but the gelatinous
granular substance between the pulp and the sac was of the
consistence of very firm jelly, closely and intimately adherent
to the whole interior of the sac, with the exception of a narrow
strip all round the base of the pulp, along which strip the
grey membrane of the sac retained its original appearance,
and through which the radiating saccular twigs were visible,
being strongly and beautifully contrasted with the cream-
coloured surface of the granular substance. The mass of the
granular substance had a peculiar greyish-white colour ; its
surface was cream-coloured, and had a dry chalky appearance.

It had a tendency to tear in a direction perpendicular to the

internal surface of the sac. Although closely applied, it did
not adhere to the pulp, but, as stated above, surrounded it on
all sides till within a short distance of its base -- " whatever

eminences or cavities the one had, the other had the same,

but reversed, so that they were moulded exactly to each other."

In the incisives its principal mass lay " against the hollowed
inside of the tooth, and in the molars it was placed directly
against their base like a tooth of the opposite jaw." In the

pulps of the molars, which had three canals which now passed
completely across their bases, the granular substance sent a
process into each of them. These processes did not meet in
the centre, but disappeared near to and left, as in the case
of the general mass, minute portion of the grey membrane
of the sac between themselves and the secondary bases of the

pulp.* In the case of the molars also the dental arterial

     * The only authors, as far as know, who have observed and described
this gelatinous body, are Mr. Hunter in his Natural History the Teeth, 94,
and Purkinje and Easchkow, in the work of the latter, entitled, Meletemata
circa Mammalium dentium evolutumem. Not having been able, hitherto, to
procure Raschkow's work, can only state from Burdach (Physiologie, French
ed. tom. iii. 498), that Purkinje's opinion appears to coincide with Mr.
Hunter's as to its being the organ which secretes that enamel. Mr. Hunter
1ms not described the processes which this body sends under the pulp, or the
p.

            I
                       I

                                                                     of

                                                                                                                      p.

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.                                          21

 branch divided into three twigs, one for each secondary base
of the pulp, and from all of these, radiating perpendicular
ramuscules proceeded, as in the case of a pulp with a pri

mary base.
      The arterial network, which was formed in the external

spongy membrane by the inosculation of these vessels with
those proceeding from the gums, transmitted small branches,
which ramified with such minuteness in the substance and
on the surface of that portion of the grey membrane to which
the granular matter adhered, that, when the latter was re
moved, the former appeared to the naked eye a mass of
vermilion, but under a one-fourth of an inch lens exhibited a
network of the most minute injection. No injected vessel
could be seen in the granular substanca* The main dental
twig, after giving off all these branches, arrived at the base or
secondary bases of the pulp, and immediately divided into
many branches, which ramified in a contorted flattened
position, between the base or bases of the pulp and the mem
brane of the sac. From these, smaller ramifications were
transmitted into the substance of the pulp, which ramified in
considerable numbers in the centre of its mass, but scarcely
at all near its surface or on its membrane, except in the neigh
bourhood of, and at the point where, deposition of tootle

space left between it and the base of the latter ; but his description is in other

respects so correct and characteristic, that it is difficult to account for the

manner in which the first part of his chapter on the formation of the enamel

has been so much misunderstood. Dr. Blake (p. 34) (although he described

"the granular body as the inner membrane of the tooth-sacs, and as possessing

   no vessels capable of conveying red blood ") supposed that Mr. Hunter meant
by "another pulpy substance," the sacs of the permanent teeth. Mr. Bell

also in a note, vol. ii. Palmer's ed. Hunter's Works, p. 43, states that after

"most accurate observations, he had come to the conclusiou that the pulpy

substance" mentioned by Hunter is nothing more than the inner membrane

of the sac turgid with blood and earthy matter preparatory to the secretion

of the enamel.                                        nf live TceUi, p. 4.
      * Blake, Essay -m the Structure caul FoniuUiou

22 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

substance had commenced, immediately beneath which the

vascularity was intense, both in the substance under, and on

the surface a little beyond, the edge of the scale.* This
surrounding vascularity had the appearance of a zone, and

was situated in the substance and on the surface of an ele

vated portion of the pulp, which surrounded the scale of tooth-

substance.

The granular substance in contact with the tooth-substance

and its border had begun to be absorbed, and had consequently

become thinner in that situation than elsewhere, allowing the

subjacent vascularity to appear through it. No vessel could

be detected in the granular substance to account for the

absorption of its inner surface.

The ten little cavities had undergone no change, except

that the two or four anterior had become rather longer, and

were situated further from the surface of the groove, so as to

be placed rather behind than below the sacs. The anterior

cavity, in particular, although its walls were still in contact,

and required to be separated by the needles under water to

see its interior, had become pear-shaped. The fundus or

portion furthest from the gum exhibited on its floor a fold,

which lay in the direction of the edge of the future permanent

tooth, and near its apex there were two other minute folds,

one on the anterior wall, the other on the posterior. Beyond

this the cavity terminated in an opaque impervious line,

which soon disappeared. The substance of the gums had

become infiltrated with a quantity of gelatinous matter very

similar to the granular substance of the sacs. In consequence

of this infiltration the line of junction of the walls of the

dental groove had become obliterated, the substances of the

gums had become thicker, and the sacs more removed from

the surface.

                                  el

                                           (a,

                                                                                        p.
The open portion of the groove Fig. 19) had disappeared,

* Scries, Etsai siir rAniUom.ie   la Physiologic da Dents,                                  '20.

        PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.                      23

but a longitudinal section showed that the lips only had

adhered, the walls had not. The follicle

(6, Fig. 22) had become a sac, in conse

quence of which a cavity       remained be
        it

                                                       (b)

                                                                                 it
tween and the surface of the gum. Gela

tinous substance had been deposited in the            Fig. 22.

sac (6), and in the neighbourhood of the cavity below

(6), as in the other sacs.

The lower jaw exhibited changes analogous to those in the

upper.

12. Child at Birth. -- A longitudinal section was made

                            through the posterior part of the

                            under jaw, when the sacs and pulps

                            of the posterior milk-molar, and of

                            the first permanent molar, and the

                            arrangements represented in Fig. 23,

        Fig. 23.            were observed. (5) The sac and
                            pulp of the posterior milk-molar
        (b)
                        (6,
                                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                (b)
                                                                                                                                            ;
(6) the sac and pulp of the first permanent molar               the

cavity marked Fig. 22).
     The sac of the permanent tooth (6) was now almost wholly

imbedded in the base of the coronoid process of the jaw. The

cavity which was attached to the upper part of the sac of

the permanent tooth by its posterior extremity, adhered by its

anterior extremity to that point of the gum which was attached

to the anterior edge of the base of the coronoid process, so

as to drag its surface at that point into dimple. The cavity
                               it

                                          a
(b) was consequently longer than was at its first formation.
     The granular substance had wholly disappeared. The

interior of the sacs had villous highly-vascular appearance,
                            a

like portion of injected intestinal mucous membrane. The
a

original opening of the sac (6) into the cavity  (b)  was indicated

on its inner surface by an indistinct circular lip. The sacs

24 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

of one of the central incisives of the same fetus exhibited

externally nothing peculiar. After a transverse section, it was

found to be composed of two, the temporary and permanent

combined.

The walls of the temporary sac       Fig. 23) were composed
                                     (b,

                                                     it,

                                                                  a if
of an external membrane, which was rather thick and con

densed the inner could be separated from          and had the
           ;
appearance,  as in the molar sacs, of an injected villous
membrane.                         aThe little permanent sac was situated in the

substance of the outer membrane of the temporary sac, as

the latter had been split to receive it. It was lined by

membrane similar to that of the temporary, and exhibited

near the lower end of its posterior wall the incipient pulp,

which was evidently development of the fold observed in

that situation at the fifth month. It terminated towards the

gum by an indistinct pointed extremity, from which short
                                                  a

opaque impervious line proceeded, near to which the anterior

and posterior folds, observed at the fifth month, were seen.

     13. The lower jaw of an infant about eight or nine months
old, in which the central incisives had cut the gum, was pre

pared by removing section from its external posterior lateral
                       a

aspect, so as to expose the sacs of the posterior milk-molar,
                                       and of the anterior permanent

                                     molar (x, Fig. 24). The latter (6),
                                     instead of being buried in the base

                                     of the coronoid process, was situated

                                     further forward, and the cavity
                                                  a

                                                                  (&)
                                     having been displayed by longi
                                     tudinal section of the former, was

             Fig. 24.                found, comparatively speaking, to

have recovered its original small extent, being attached in-

feriorly to the top of the sac (6), and superiorly to the an

terior edge of the base of the coronoid process.

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.      25

Upon examining the two incisive teeth which had cnt the

gum, it was found that a bristle could be inserted between
their surfaces and the gum for one-third of an inch. Through

the soft parts a transverse section was made, which was after

wards continued through the jaw and one of the teeth by

means of a very fine saw.

    It was now observed that the tooth
it                                      Fig. 24, had
             it
acquired nearly two-thirds of its fang, and that the sac had
                  it it
again become an open follicle (b). This follicle was shorter
                                   a
                                                       (a,than the whole length of the tooth by the length of the pro

                                          ittruding portion of the latter. At the mouth of the follicle, its

                                                                a
                                                                     y)

                                                                             a
lining membrane was continuous with the surface of the gums,

and continued free till  arrived at the termination of the

enamel, where united to the surface of the fang of the tooth,

but could be separated from as continuous membrane, and

at the lower end of the root became continuous with the

surface of the pulp, whose base was yet considerable. Upon

removing the bone in front of the neighbouring lateral tooth,

which had not yet passed through the gum, was observed

that the extremity of its fang, or rather the fundus of its sac,

was deeper in the jaw than that of the central by length

equal to the protruding portion of the latter. This change of
level had not, however, taken place in the case of the alveoli,

that of the central being rather deeper than the lateral. The

space intervening between the bottom of the alveolus of the
central tooth and the fundus of its sac was occupied by

spongy filamentous tissue, through which the dental vessels

and nerves proceeded.

     14. The lower jaw of an infant, which had cut all itsa
milk-teeth, and which was probably between four and five
years old, was prepared in the same manner as the last.

     The sac of the anterior permanent molar (6, Fig. 25) was
situated under the gum in front of the coronoid process, and

20 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

new sac and pulp of a smaller size (7) had appeared buried in
                                      the base of that process. The cavity
                                                 was again lengthened out, being
                                          attached anteriorly, at the anterior
                                      edge of the base of the process, to
                                           the gum, and posteriorly to the top
                                      of the new sac (7). That portion of
                                      the cavity formerly attached to the

sac (6) was now almost obliterated.
       ;
15. The posterior part of the lower jaw of child about
             a (7,                                a
                          a                                a

                             is it                                                 a
six years old was prepared by removing section from its
                                           a (b)
internal posterior aspect, and making at the same time
longitudinal section of the gum.

The sac  Fig. 26) had ad

vanced from under the coronoid

process and another very small

sac and pulp had appeared en
closed in bony crypt under

the process, and communicat
ing through the upper part of the bony cell of the sac (7)
with the gum, where terminated in an opaque line or tail,
the last remains of the surface of adhesion of the dental groove.

Section II. --A Description of the Pulps and Sacs from

   their First Appearance in the Embryo till the

     Eruption of the Wisdom-Teeth.

When we examine the upper jaw of human embryo at
                                                  a
                                                       is

                                                                         a
the sixth week, there perceived between the lip and semi

circular lobe of  horse-shoe form (which          the primitive

condition of the palate)                          deep narrow groove which ter

minates on each side, behind the former, by curving inwards

on the soft mucous membrane. As this groove becomes

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.  27

gradually wider, and the lip more lax in a direction from

behind forwards, there appears on its floor posteriorly, and
proceeding in the same direction, a ridge (the external alveolar
process) which speedily divides the original groove into two

others ; the outer one forming the duplicature of mucous
membrane from the inside of the lip to the outside of the

alveolar process, the inner one constituting what may be very

properly denominated the primitive dental groove, as the germs
of the teeth appear in it.

      The inner side of the ridge already mentioned, after being
cut into three grooves whose concavities look inwards, and of
which the posterior is the deepest, terminates in a rounded
lobule, which is continuous with it anteriorly, while externally,
internally, and posteriorly, it is bounded by that portion of the
original groove which was situated behind the semicircular
lobe. The curves of the ridge are occupied by bulgings of
the semicircular lobe, so that the ridge and lobe, with their
curves and bulgings, are exactly similar to the arrangement
 of the mucous membrane of the second compartment of the
 stomach of the porpoise.

     At some period between the sixth and seventh week a

 longitudinal portion is cut off from the internal posterior edge
 of the semicircular lobe, extending as far forwards as the
 middle bulging, and about the same time the posterior bulging
 becomes isolated and defined, under the appearance of an
 ovoidal papilla, the long diameter of which is antero-posterior.
 This papilla is the germ of the anterior superior milk-molar
 tooth, the first tooth-germ which appears in the development

 of the human body. It is at this period a simple free

 granular papilla, like many others on the surface of the

 mucous membrane and skin.

       About the eighth week or second month a second papilla
 appears at the point of projection of the ridge, between the
 middle and anterior curve. This papilla, which is the germ of

28 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

the superior milk canine tooth, is rounded and granular, and is

bounded externally by a triangular lamina, which spreads out

into, and is continuous with, the inner edge of the ridge, having

its apex notched so as to fit the external aspect of the papilla.

During the ninth week the ridge advances in an indistinct

manner to the median line, and there appears on each side of

that line an oblong papilla with a notched lamina in front of

it,and immediately afterwards another smaller papilla and

                             it
lamina external to the former. These last papillae are the

germs of the incisive teeth, and are placed in connection with

the lateral elements of the intermaxillary system.

The primitive dental groove, which before the appearance

of the incisive germs terminated anteriorly at the outer ex

tremity of the lateral intermaxillary lobules, now extends

forwards to the median line. The longitudinal lobule, and

the lobule opposite to also, have lengthened out posteriorly,

and the intervening portion of the primitive groove has

become wider and not so curved. The sides of the groove

before and behind the anterior molar papilla hare been

gradually approaching one another.

During the tenth week the incisive papillae make very

little advance, their anterior laminae only increasing some

what in size. Processes from the sides of the primitive dental

groove, particularly the external one, approach and finally

meet before and behind the papilla of the anterior molar, so

as to inclose  in follicle, through the mouth of which
may be seen.
a              A similar follicle

                   it

                                     a
                                          a

                                                          a is

                                                                                   it
                                    gradually formed round

the canine by the advancement inwards of its external notched

lamina, which at first appeared as production of the ridge or

external lip of the groove. The germ of the posterior milk-

molar also appears as small papilla towards the end of this

week behind the anterior molar, at the side and apparently as

production from the rounded lobule, which terminates pos

teriorly the outer ridge.

                 PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.  29

During the eleventh and twelfth week the incisives ad

vance steadily. Septa pass between them from the outer to

the inner side of the groove, so that their papillae become

completely sunk in well-developed follicles. No material

change takes place in the anterior molar or canine ; but the

posterior molar papilla enlarges, and the terminal lobule of

                           it,
                                      a
the outer ridge folds gradually round so as to constitute its

follicle, behind which there still remains  portion of the

primitive groove.

     The changes which ensue during the thirteenth week con
sist in the completion of the follicle of the posterior molar,

and in the gradual change which takes place in the shape of

the different papillae. Instead of remaining, as hitherto, simple,

rounded, blunt masses of granular matter, each of them assumes

particular shape. The incisives acquire in some degree the
a

              ;
appearance of the future teeth the canines become simple
                           ;
cones and the molars become cones flattened transversely,
                                          a
somewhat similar to carnivorous molars. During this period,   a
                                                                                          ;
too, the papillae grow faster than the follicles, so that the for

mer protrude from the mouth of the latter, while the depth of

the latter varies directly as the length of the fangs of their

future corresponding teeth, the canine follicle being deepest,

etc. etc. While the papillae are changing their shape, the

mouths of the follicles are undergoing change which con

sists in the development of their edges, so as to form opercula,

which correspond in some measure with the shape of the

crowns of the future teeth. There are two of these opercula

in the incisive follicles, one larger, anterior, and rather ex

ternal, the second smaller, posterior, and internal. There are

three for the canines, an external and two internal, and four

or five for the molars, each corresponding with tubercle

while their edges correspond with the grooves on the grinding

surfaces of these teeth.*

* It would be interesting to ascertain whether the opcrcnla of the human

30 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

     The inner lip of the dental groove (or the outer edge ol
the palate), which has been increasing for some time past, is
now, at the fourteenth week, so large as to meet and to apply
itself in a valvular manner to the outer lip or ridge, which
has also been increasing. The follicles at this time grow
faster than the papillae, so that the latter recede into the
former. The molar papillae gradually acquire two or three
additional small compressed tubercles on their sides, and their
apices become less conical, so that they still more resemble
the molar teeth of the carnivorous mammals* The opercula
of the follicles continue to increase, so as almost to hide their

contained papillae.
     The primitive dental groove, which at this period contains

ten papillae in as many follicles, and is situated on a higher
level than at first, may be now more properly denominated the

secondary dental groove. It is when in its secondary condition

that the groove affords a provision for the production of all
the permanent teeth, with the exception of the first or anterior

tooth-follicles may not be rudimentary organs, which are to attain their utmost
development in the sacs of the elephantoid, ruminant, and other compound
teeth, under the form of depending folds for the secretion of the intersecting
enamel and cement plates.

      One may easily conceive the mode of formation of a composite tooth-sac,
by supposing the opercula, after their edges have met, to dip down back to

back between the divisions of the pulp, till they almost meet the common

body of the latter.
     * This is another instance of the law of progressive development, by virtue

of which an organ, in the course of its formation, passes through phases which
correspond to permanent conditions of the same organ in other animals. A
human molar tooth-pulp is at first rounded, as in certain fishes ; then conical,
as in other fishes and reptiles ; then conical, but flattened transversely, gradu
ally acquiring two or more additional conical tubercles, as in the carnivorous
mammals ; and finally, by the equalisation of the primary and secondary
tubercles, assuming the shape of the molars in the quadrumanous animals and
man. In the elephantoid, ruminant, and rodent animals, it probably under
goes a further and ultimate change in the deepening of the rudimentary grooves
on the grinding surface.

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.  31

molars. It is about the fourteenth or fifteenth week that we

begin to observe preparations made for this provision, by the
gradual appearance of a little depression in the form of a
 crescent, immediately behind the inner operculum of each of the
 milk-tooth follicles. The concave edges of these depressions
 are in contact with the attached margins of these opercula.
 Those of the centre incisives appear first, then the laterals,

 canines, anterior bicuspids, posterior bicuspids. About this
time the opercula close the mouths of the follicles, but with
 out adhering, the anterior closing first, then the laterals, and
so on in succession. The lips and walls of the secondary
groove now begin to cohere in a direction from behind for
wards, the opercula and every part of the groove, with the
exception of the ten depressions for the permanent teeth, be

coming rough, flocculent, and adherent. The follicles have
now become the .sacs / the papilke the pulps of the milk-teeth ;
and the crescent-formed depressions vacant cavities of reserve,
to furnish delicate mucous membrane for the future forma
tion of the pulps and sacs of the ten anterior permanent teeth.

      The general adhesion does not invade that portion of the
primitive dental groove which is situated behind the posterior
milk-molar follicle. This small portion retains its original
appearance, greyish-yellow colour, and smooth edges, for a

fortnight or three weeks longer, and affords a nidus for the
development of the papilla and follicle of the anterior per
manent molar-tooth, the fundus of its follicle being situated
immediately behind the sac of the posterior milk-molar. The
cavities of reserve for the ten anterior permanent teeth are at this
period minute compressed sacs, with their sides in contact, and
situated between the surface of the gum and the milk-sacs.

     The papillae of the milk-teeth, from the time that their
follicles close,* become gradually moulded into their peculiarly

     * Herissant in the Mem. de I''Academic Royale, 1754, p. 664, described
two glims-- the "genoive permanent," and the "gencive passagere." His ideas

32 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

human shape. The molar pulps begin to be perforated also
by three canals, which, proceeding from the surface to their
centres, gradually divide their primary base into three second
ary bases, which become developed into the fangs of the future
teeth. While this is going on, the sacs grow more rapidly
than the pulps, so that there speedily exists an intervening
space in which is deposited a gelatinous granular substance,
at first in small quantity, and adherent only to the proximal
surfaces of the sacs ; but ultimately, about the fifth month,
closely and intimately attached to the whole interior of these
organs, except for a small space of equal breadth, all round the
base of the pulp, which space retains the original grey colour
of the inner membrane of the follicle ; and as the primary base
of the pulp becomes perforated by the canals formerly men
tioned, the granular matter sends processes into them, which,
adhering to the sac, reserve the narrow space described above
between themselves and the secondary bases. These processes
of granular matter do not meet across the canals, but dis
appear near their point of junctioa The granular matter is
closely applied, but does not adhere to the surface of the pulp.

" Whatever eminences or cavities the one has, the other has

the same, but reversed, so that they are moulded exactly to

each other."

     Each branch of the dental artery, as it arrives at the fundus
of its destined sac, sends off a number of radiating twigs, which
run in the substance of the cellular submucous tissue (which
constitutes the outer membrane of the sac) towards the gum,
from which others proceed to inosculate with them. The

on the subject appear to have been derived from the examination of jaws in
which the lips and walls of the secondary dental groove "gencive passagere,"
had not become completely adherent or obliterated. In this way the indistinct
mouths of the milk-tooth sacs on the floor of the groove "gencive permanent,"
did not escape the notice of this most accurate observer. The cartilages of the
gum described by Serres (Essai, p. 10) are to be considered as the walls of the
groove in the semicartilaginons condition which they assume after clasure.

            PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.                                               33

combined twigs then ramify minutely in the true membrane
of the sac without sending the smallest twig into the granular
substance* The dental branch, after giving off these saccular
twigs, divides into a number of contorted ramifications between

the base of the pulp and the sac, which from smaller ramusculi

are transmitted into the pulp itself. In the case of the molars,

the main branches divide into three secondary branches, one
for each of the secondary bases. From these, three sets of

saccular twigs, and three packets of contorted pulp-vessels,
take their origin.

     While these changes have been taking place in the sacs of
the milk-teeth, the follicle of the first permanent molar closes,
and granular matter is deposited in its sac. The walls of that
portion of the secondary groove below it do not adhere ; the
edges alone do so. There therefore, cavity of considerable
size below the sac of this tooth, or between and the surface
          of                                                       a

                                     p.                                   it

                                        of is,                                       p.

                                                               a
* Mr. Fox (Natural History                                      the. Human Teeth, 20) and Mr. Bell

(Anatomy    the Teeth, 54, and in note, p. 39, vol. ii. Palmer's edition of

Hunter's Works) have both misunderstood the statements of Mr. Hunter and

Dr. Blake on the relative vascularity of the membranes of the tooth-sacs.

(Hunter's Natural History, 84, and Blake, p. 4.) What Blake denominates
the internal lamella the enamel pulp of Hunter, Purkinje, and Raschkow,
                       is
                                      p.

the gelatinous granular substance described in the text. He, with great

accuracy states that   it      "more tender and delicate, and seems to contain no

                           is

vessels capable of conveying red blood." Under the denomination "external
lamella " he includes the proper vascular mucous membrane of the sac, and the
external spongy submucous tissue. In his search after the germs of the per

manent teeth, Blake's attention appears to have been directed to the tooth-sacs

when in the condition he describes. Mr. Hunter, again, who had most
                                                                   it,

                                                                                          a
correct conception of the constitution of the sacs, has, with his usual sagacity,

not confounded the granular body, or, as he denominates                                  "another pulpy

substance," with the proper membranes of the sacs. Accordingly, in his

account of the relative vascularity of the membranes of the sacs, he, when

describing the manner in which a tooth formed, has taken no notice of the
                                          a
                                                         is
pulpy substance. Dr. Blake describes the membranes of the sacs at an early

period Mr. Hunter, again, in child at birth, at which time the external
;
        is
membrane not very vascular, and has assumed somewhat of the appearance

of a fibro-cartilage.

                                                                D

34 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

of the gum. This cavity is a reserve of delicate mucous mem
brane to afford materials for the formation of the second per
manent molar, and of the third permanent molar or wisdom-

tooth.

    A little before this period tooth-substance begins to be de

posited on the tubercles and apices of the pulps, which have
acquired round the point of deposition a raised border and a
zone-like vascularity ; and, synchronous with this deposition,
absorption takes place on the inner surface of the granular
matter immediately in contact with it. No vessel can be de
tected running to the point of absorption, but ultimately the
granular matter becomes so thin as to allow the subjacent
vascularity to appear. The absorption goes on increasing as
the tooth-substance is deposited, and when the latter reaches
the base of the pulp the former disappears, and the interior of
the dental sac assumes the villous vascular appearance of a
mucous membrane. This change is nearly completed about
the seventh or eighth month.

      Up to this period little change has taken place in the ten
anterior, or in the two posterior or great cavities of reserve.
The ten anterior have been gradually receding from the sur
face of the gum, so as to be posterior, instead of inferior, to the
milk-sacs. The two or four anterior began about the fifth
month to dilate at their distal extremities, across which a fold
appears (which is the germ of the future pulp) lying in the
direction of the cutting edge of the future tooth ; and at the
proximal or acute extremities of the cavities two other folds,
an anterior and a posterior, appear* These round off the un

     * These two folds are strictly analogous to the opercula of the milk-tooth
sacs. They never attain, however, the same high development as those of the
latter, remaining in a rudimentary state, apparently in consequence of the
almost saccular condition of the cavities of reserve. The existence of these
laminae in a rudimentary state proves that in the formation of the permanent
teeth there is a strict adherence to the law of follicular development even
when, in man at least, there is no apparent necessity for it.

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.  35

 defined apices of the cavities, and are strictly analogous to the
 opercula of the milk-follicles.

       The distal fold gradually acquires the appearance of a
 tooth-pulp, while the proximal disappear by the obliteration
 of the little undefined space beyond them.

       The cavities of reserve have now become tooth-sacs, and

 under this form they continue to recede from the surface of

 the gum, imbedding themselves in the submucous cellular
 tissue, which has all along constituted the external layer
 of the milk-sacs, and in which the larger saccular vessels

 ramify before arriving at the true mucous membranes of
the sacs. This implantation of the permanent in the
 walls of the temporary tooth-sacs gives the former the
appearance of being produced by a gemmipabous process
from the latter*

      The dental groove was originally imbedded in an alveolar
groove. As the dental interfollicular septa are developed in
the former, osseous septa also begin to be formed in the latter.
These osseous septa are at first in the form of bridges, but
ultimately, at the sixth month, become complete partitions.

    * It was this imbedding of the permanent in the walls of the temporary

tooth-saes which deceived Dr. Blake, and led him to suppose that the former
derived their origin from the latter. Mr. Fox supported the same view of the
subject ; and Mr. Bell, in his own work (Anaknny, etc. etc. of the Teeth, p.
61), and more lately in his notes in Palmer's edition of Mr. Hunter's Works,
vol. ii. p. 37, has strongly urged the same doctrine. Mr. Bell has stated that
Mr. Hunter's "account of the manner in which the permanent teeth are formed

is exceedingly imperfect," but it is evident that if the account of the origin of
these teeth given in the text be correct, Mr. Hunter was not in error when he
supposed both sets to be of independent origin. Mr. Hunter was so correct a
thinker, that he did not account the circumstance of contiguity to be a proof
of dependence. He was apparently ignorant of the origin of both sets, and in
his usual cautious manner, when describing structure makes no observation on
the subject. The author of the Edinburgh Dissector holds the same opinion as
Mr. Hunter on this subject ; and in his excellent chapter on the teeth, although
he does not disprove the opinions of Dr. Blake and others, cautions the student
against supposing Mr. Hunter to be incorrect on this subject.

36 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

As the sacs increase in size, the alveoli increase also, and when

the permanent form slight projections behind the temporary
tooth-sacs, niches* are formed for them in the posterior walls
of the alveoli. Whilst this increase in the bulk of the sacs
and alveoli is going on, there is no proportionate increase in
the length of the jaw, in consequence of which, the sac of the
anterior permanent molar has been insinuating itself into, and
at the eighth month, or the full time, is almost wholly im

bedded in, the maxillary tuberosity.t and has become situated
on a higher level than the milk-sacs, during which it has not
only drawn the surface of the gum upwards and backwards,
but has also lengthened out the great or posterior cavity of

reserve.is
                                                                   it,
     About this time the fangs of the milk-incisives begin to be
formed, in the accomplishment of which three contempora
neous actions are employed --viz. the lengthening of the pulp,
the deposition of tooth-substance upon and the adhesion to
the latter of that portion of the inner surface of the sac which

    opposite to it.

     While the fangs of the milk-teeth, particularly those in the
front of the jaw, are lengthening in the manner now described,
the pulps and sacs of the permanent teeth continue to increase,
and the bony crypts which contain them to enlarge in pro
portion, the lower edges of the latter insinuating themselves
between the two former. As this process continues, the jaw
lengthens more rapidly, and when the infant eight or nine
months old, there so much room in the alveolar arch, that

the anterior permanent molar tooth begins to resume its
former position in the posterior part of the dental arch, and
the great cavity of reserve again to return to its original size
and situation.

     About this time the central incisives begin to pass through
is
                                              is

* Bell, Anatomy, etc.
t                                                  the Teeth, p. 62.

                                               of
Hunter, Nat. Hist. Human Teeth, pp. 101, 102, 103.

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.  37

the gum --a process which is accomplished in the following
manner :--The body of the tooth having been fully formed,

and coated with enamel, has also been acquiring a portion
of its fang by the triplex action formerly described ; in con
sequence of which, a reaction takes place between the bottom
of the socket and the unfinished extremity of the fang.
This reaction causes the body of the tooth and the non

adherent portion of the sac gradually to approach, and the

former finally to pass through the surface of the gum. Till

the time that the edge of the tooth passes through the gum,
the fundus of the sac, and consequently the base of the pulp
with the extremity of the fang, never change their common

relative position in the jaw. At the moment, however, that

the tooth passes through the gum (when the non-adherent
portion of the sac resumes its primitive follicular condition,
its inner membrane becoming continuous with the mucous

membrane of the mouth) the non-adherent portion of the sac
shortens more rapidly than the fang lengthens, in consequence
of which the adherent portion with the fang itself separates

from the fundus of the alveolus and the body of the tooth

advances through the gum.* A space is thus left between the

top of the alveolus and the fundus of the sac, occupied by

cellular tissue, and traversed by the vessels and nerves. The

alveolar cavity at the same time rapidly adapts itself to the

new condition of its contents, advancing its edges so as to

clasp the root, which has during these rapid changes been
steadily lengthening -- a process which now goes on with
greater rapidity, as it is conducted in a comparatively empty

     * The movement of the unfinished extremity of an incisive tooth from the

Ifundus of its alveolus will explain what have commonly remarked, and what

must have been observed by medical practitioners, that from the time that the
edge of the tooth appears through the gum, it advances more rapidly than can
well be accounted for by the usual rate of lengthening of its fang. This ad

vance is not invariably rapid, but may be observed in all the incisive teeth, if

careful daily examination be made during a normal dentition.

 38 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

 space. The pulp continues to lengthen till its base is no
 larger than the fasciculus of vessels and nerve which enters it.
 The orifice of the cavity of the tooth also diminishes to the
 same size, and through it the surface of the pulp becomes
 continuous with the adherent portion of the sac and con
 sequently with the mucous membrane of the mouth. The
 adherent portion of the sac has now attained its maximum,
 and the free or open portion its minimum size, having been
 reduced to that narrow portion of the gum which forms a
 vascular border and groove round the neck of the perfected
 tooth*

      During the period that the milk-teeth have been advanc
 ing along with their sockets to their perfect state and ultimate
 position in the jaw, the permanent sacs have been receding in
 an opposite direction, and have, as well as their bony crypts,
 been enlarging, the edges of the latter, insinuating themselves
 so far between the former and the milk-sacs, that at last they
 are only connected by their proximal extremities, and ulti
 mately, when the lower edges of the crypts sink so far as to
 have become the posterior lips of the alveoli of the milk-teeth,
 the notches of communication between the latter and the

permanent alveoli are forced, under the form of foramina,
into a position on the anterior surface of the palate, one
behind each milk-alveolus. The sacs of the bicuspids having
assumed a position directly above the milk-molars, the hole

     * This vascular bonier may be seen in healthy gums which have not been
disturbed by the deposition of tartar, and is beautifully displayed in two wet
injected preparations in the Bell collection, Museum of the Royal College of
Surgeons, Edinburgh (Bell, C. iii. Nos. 25 and 56).

    It is interesting to observe that one of the first physiological effects of mer
cury -- viz. excitation of the gastro-intestinal compound glands and simple

mucous follicles-- is also displayed in a similar manner in the borders which
surround the necks of the teeth, which are the remains of the free portions of
the tooth-sacs, while it at the same time acts upon the adherent portions and
their submucous tissue, raising the teeth from their sockets, and affecting the
jaw from contiguity.

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.  39

of communication is never removed from the sockets of the
latter.

      The cords of communication which pass through these
foramina are not tubular, although in some instances a portion
 of the unobliterated extrafollicular compartment of the ori
ginal little cavity of reserve may be detected in them. They
are merely those portions of the gum which originally contained
the lines of adhesion of the depressions for the permanent
teeth in the secondary dental groove, and which have been
subsequently lengthened out, in consequence of the necessarily
retired position in which the permanent teeth have been
developed during the active service of the temporary set.
The cords and foramina are not obliterated in the child,

either because the former are to become useful as "guber-
nacula," and the latter as " itinera dentium," or much more
probably, in virtue of a law, which appears to be a general
one in the development of animal bodies -- viz. that parts
or organs which have once acted an important part, however

atrophied they may afterwards become, yet never altogether
disappear so long as they do not interfere with other parts or

functions.
      The sacs of the permanent teeth derive their first vessels

from the gums ; ultimately they receive their proper dental
vessels from the milk-sacs, and as they separate from the
latter into their own cells, the newly-acquired vessels con
joining into common trunks, retire also into permanent dental

canals.

    It was stated above that, in the child at the seventh or

eighth month, when the central incisives were passing through
the gums, the jaw had lengthened so much as to allow the
first permanent molar to retire from the maxillary tuberosity,
and to resume in some measure its position downwards and
forwards in the same line with the other teeth, and also to
reduce the great cavity of reserve to its primitive size. This

40 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF TEE

cavity of reserve now begins to lengthen, to bulge out, and to3.
curve backwards and upwards at its posterior extremity, underis :
the form of a sac, into the mass of the maxillary tuberosity ;
a papilla or pulp appears in its fundus, and a process of con1. it,
traction separates it from the remainder of the cavity of
reserve, which still adheres to its proximal wall by one
extremity, while by the other it is continued into the
substance of the gum under the anterior molar. This new
sac, which is that of the second permanent molar, now
occupies the position in the maxillary tuberosity which

the first permanent did before it. It afterwards leaves this

retired position, in consequence of the lengthening of the
jaw allowing it to fall downwards and forwards into the
line, and on a level with the other teeth.* Before it leaves

the tuberosity altogether, the posterior extremity of the
remainder of the cavity of reserve sends backwards and

upwards its last offset--the sac and pulp of the wisdom-

tooth, which speedily occupies the tuberosity after the
second molar has left and ultimately, when the jaw again
lengthens for the last time, at the age of nineteen or twenty,
takes its place at the posterior extremity of the range of the

adult teeth.

     The wisdom-teeth are the second products of the posterior

* The curved lines which the posterior cavities of reserve, and the sacs of

the molar teeth, describe in their progress to and from the maxillary tuber
osity, and the coronoid process, and the peculiar position in which the pulps

are consequently developed, explain satisfactorily certain normal and abnormal
conditions of these teetli -- The curves which the combined grinding Bur-

faces of the molar teeth present, convex downwards and backwards in the

upper jaw, concave upwards and forwards in the lower. 2. The peculiar

manner in which the fangs of the molars, particularly the inferior, are bent

backwards.  The occasional horizontal position of the wisdom-teeth, the

crowns of the inferior being directed forwards, those of the superior backwards.

This abnormal position  the cause of much annoyance and danger to the

patient, and of difficulty to the surgeon.

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.  41

or great cavities of reserve, and the final effects of develop
ment in the secondary dental groove.*

    In the lower jaw, as in the upper, dentition commences in
a deep narrow groove, situated between the lip and a semi

circular lobe. This groove, instead of terminating in a simple
curve posteriorly, as in the upper jaw, becomes shallow, and
assumes a sigmoidal form upon the surface of the posterior

bulbous ovoidal portion of the lobe.
     About the seventh week the Up becomes very loose, and

separates widely from the lobe, between which and the former

a ridge appears, growing from behind forwards, and dividing
the original groove into two, an outer one-- the labial dupli
cative of mucous membrane, and an inner-- the primitive
dental groove. This ridge, which, as in the upper, does not yet
extend to the incisive portion of the jaw, is fiat, or in the
same continuous plane with the bottom of the dental groove,
and its lip is turned out, or overhangs the labial mucous
membrane. The inner lip of the groove is formed by the
semicircular lobe, which has become thin, and arched over
the groove, particularly anteriorly, where it is cut into four
festoons, two on each side of the median line ; and posteriorly,
where it still retains the appearance of an oval lobe, from
under which the outer lip or ridge appears to proceed. The

groove curves inwards between the two lips posteriorly, under
a form which is evidently a development of the original

sigmoidal groove.
      Near the posterior extremity of the groove there is an

elevation of a small portion of its floor, which speedily
becomes the germ or papilla of the inferior anterior milk-
molar tooth -- the second tooth which appears in the primitive

* It is probable that the successive dentitions of the elephant are conducted

in a cavity of reserve, which must consequently exist even in the adult animal,

Iftill a late period of its life.  such be the case, the molar dentition of the ele

phant, and the formation of the human adult molars, arc analogous processes.

42 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

development of the human body. During the eighth week

the elevation already mentioned becomes a papilla, length
ened from behind forwards, and flattened transversely. About

the same time another papilla, bounded by a notched lamina,

similar to those on the upper jaw, makes its appearance

further forward in the groove. This papilla is the germ of

the inferior milk-canine. The dental groove is about the

same time continued forward to the median line, not by the

advancement of its outer ridge, but by the elevation of its
floor. Its posterior portion also has become wider and not so

curved.

During the succeeding week the incisives make their

appearance, the centrals first.
     From this time all the eight papillae continue to increase.

The notched laminae shoot inwards to the inner lip of the

groove, near which they meet and join slight projections from

it. About the eleventh or twelfth week the germ     of the
posterior milk-molar appears in the curved portion  of the
groove, and is developed in the usual manner.

     CrescenUike depressions appear in the secondary groove,
on the inner side of the mouths of the milk-follicles, as in the

upper jaw.

      The secondary groove adheres, leaving a posterior open
portion, in which are developed the papilla and follicle of the

first permanent molar. This follicle closes, as well as the lips
of the portion of groove above it. There are now in the jaw
ten milk-tooth sacs, two permanent-tooth sacs, ten anterior

cavities of reserve, and two great or posterior cavities of
reserve ;* the ten anterior for the development of the incisives,

     * The mucous membrane constituting the cavities of reserve exists in a

condition which has hitherto been considered by anatomists as peculiar to the

serous membranes. A dental cavity of reserve is a shut sac, lined by a true

mucous membrane, which is isolated- from the general mucous system, aud per

forms no special function, till it is called upon to supply what it alone can

afford, materials for the development of a tooth.

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.  43

canines, and bicuspids ; the two posterior for that of the second
and third molar,* the coronoid process acting the part which
the maxillary tuberosity did in the upper jaw.

                          Section III.

    1. On the Division of Dentition into Stages. --As dentition

is a process, not only very complicated in its details, but of

very lengthened duration, extending over nearly eight months
of intra-uterine, and above twenty years of extra-uterine

existence, the understanding and further investigation of it
may be facilitated by dividing it into stages. The most
natural division, one which is not artificial, but clearly indi
cated by the phenomena themselves, is into three stages,
according to the position of the pulp in relation to its con
taining cavity-- 1st, follicular stage ; 2d, saccular ; 3d, eruptive.
We ought probably to consider, as anterior to the follicular,
the papillary staget during which the follicle or sac does not

exist, and the future pulp is a simple papilla on the free surface
of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane. As this stage,

     * The cavities of reserve are occasionally somewhat undefined, two or three
being conjoined, particularly posteriorly. Sooner or later, however, they
become distinct. The great cavity frequently stretches forwards over the sacs
of the milk-molars.

   t Most anatomists have supposed the germs of the teeth to appear as shut

sacs, full of a fluid, the pulps being formed by inspissation of the latter, or by
development from the walls of the former. Neither Mr. Hunter nor Mr. Bell
has stated anything very definite on this subject. The pulp must be con
sidered as the principal part of the organ, and as the element which appears
first. The sac is a mere subsidiary part, supplied for purposes of development
and nourishment. Handbuch der Anatomic des Menschen, von. H. Hilde-
brandt, besorgt. von E. H. Weber, Erster Band, p. 212 ; Handbuch der
Entwickelungs-geschichte dcs Menschen, von Valentin, p. 482 ; Arnold, Sals-
burg Medieinisch-Chirurgiscli ZeUung, 1831, Erster Band, p. 236 ; Cruveilhier,
Anatomic Descriptive, vol. i. p. 518 ; Serres, Essai sur VAnatomie, etc., des
Dents, p. 59 ; Ph. Fr. Blandin, Anatomic du Systeme Dentaire, etc., p. 87 ;
Blake, Essay on tlw Human Teeth, p. 2.

44 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

however, is short in its duration, and simple in its details, it

may be included in the first stage.
     The first or follicular stage comprehends all the phenomena

which present themselves from the first appearance of the

dental groove and papillae till the latter become completely

hid by the closure of the mouths of their follicles, and of the

Igroove itself.  It is upon this hitherto unknown stage of

dentition that   have insisted so much in the former sections

of this paper.
     The second or saccular stage is the one with which ana

tomists have been so long familiar, during which the papillae
are pulps, and the open follicles which contain them are shut

sacs, when the tooth-substance and the enamel, constituting

the teeth themselves, are deposited. It is during this stage,

also, that some of the most interesting phenomena in the

formation of the alveolar processes present themselves.

The third or eruptive stage includes the completion of the

teeth, the eruption and shedding of the temporary set, the

eruption of the permanent, and the necessary changes in the

alveolar processes.
     When viewed in reference to an individual tooth, these

three stages are distinct ; but when viewed in reference to
both sets, and to the whole process of dentition, they become

somewhat intermingled.

When considered in the latter point of view, we may state

that the follicular stage commences at the sixth or seventh
week, and terminates at the fourth or fifth month of intra

uterine existence ; that the saccular commences at the ter

mination of the first, and lasts for certain of the teeth till the
sixth or eighth month, and for others till the twentieth or
twenty-fifth year of extra-uterine existence ; and that the third

or eruptive commences at the sixth or eighth month, and lasts
till the twentieth or twenty-fifth year.

PULPS AND SACS OF THK HUMAN TEETH.  4o

     On the Anterior Permanent Molar Teeth. --The anterior
permanent molar is the most remarkable tooth in man, as it

forms a transition between the milk and permanent set. If
considered anatomically, it is decidedly a milk-tooth ; if

physiologically, a permanent one. In a former part of this

paper, it was stated that the papilla and follicle of this tooth
were developed in a small portion of the primitive dental

groove, which remained open for that purpose till the fourth

or fifth month, while all the other permanent teeth were pro
ductions, not from the primitive groove, but from small
non-adherent portions of the secondary groove, which lay in
a level superior to the shut orifices of the sacs of all the milk-

teeth, and of the tooth in question --the first permanent molar.
In reference to its function, however, as the most efficient
grinder in the adult mouth, we must consider it as a permanent
tooth. It is a curious circumstance, and one which will readily

suggest itself to the surgeon, that, laying out of view the
wisdom-teeth, which sometimes decay at an early period from

other causes,* the anterior molars are the permanent teeth,
which most frequently give way first, and in the most sym

metrical manner, and at the same time, and frequently before

the milk set.

    On the Tardy Development of the Superior Incisive Teeth. --
A reference to the first section of this paper will show that at

the ninth week, when the papillae of the superior incisives are
quite distinct, those of the inferior are with difficulty recog
nised. This is a fact which may be included under a law

which will be more fully referred to afterwards --viz. that the

dentition of the upper precedes, and is always in advance of,

the same process in the lower jaw. A week or two later,

however, when the papillae of the inferior incisives are
imbedded and hid in deep follicles, those of the superior are

                              * Bell, Anal. etc. of the Teeth, p. 188.

46 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

nearly in their original condition. Although the latter recover

in some degree their lost ground, yet, as every one knows, the

inferior central incisive almost always cuts the gum before the

superior, and the lateral sometimes does so also. In order to

explain this apparent exception to the law above mentioned,
it will be necessary to go a little into the history of the inter
maxillary bones, in doing which reference must necessarily be
made to some of the other bones of the face and head.

When the superior portion of the large common nasal

buccal and pharyngeal cavity is exposed in an embryo of the

sixth or seventh week, by removing the lower jaw, we observe
the boundary of the future palate to be defined by what has
been denominated in a former section the horse-shoe lobe
                                                                    it (c,
Fig.  2).  Attached to the posterior inner edges of this lobe

two other lobes are seen. These grow from behind forwards,

and from without inwards, and complete the palate by joining
in the median line, being assisted in doing so posteriorly by

two other smaller lobes behind the posterior extremities of

the horse-shoe lobe. In the two first lobes become developed

the palatine plates of the superior maxillary bones, and in the

two smaller posterior the palatine plates of the palate bones.

      The bar  is (h,  Figs. and 4), which ultimately coalesces
                         2

below with the median line of suture of the four last men

tioned lobes, proved by development to contain the nucleus

of the vomer.

      The median lobule (m) and its two lateral and anterior

appendages     (n        form the anterior division of the embryonal
                    ri)

palate. Of these three, the two lateral are observed in the

course of development to contain the nuclei of what areit
usually denominated the intermaxillary bones. With regard
to the median may be stated that, as all the other lobules
which appear in the soft pulpy texture of the foetal palate

are proved by development to contain the nuclei of all the

well-known bones of this region, am inclined to consider
                            I

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.  47

as indicative of the existence of the rudiment of a bone also,

Iespecially when the interesting antagonism, which will show

exists between it and the lateral lobules, is taken into con

sideration.*

     As the object of this part of my paper, however, is not to
discuss the osteogenesis of the human head, but to explain
why the inferior incisive teeth, although later in their appear
ance, are yet more rapid in their progress than the superior,

I shall now recall some circumstances formerly detailed re

garding the development of the three intermaxillary lobules,
immediately before and for some time after the appearance of
the incisive papillae.

     During the seventh week the three lobules are equal, and
there is no appearance of either the upper or lower incisive

teeth.

     During the eighth week the median lobule has increased
relatively, and the laterals only absolutely ; while as yet
there is no appearance of either the upper or lower incisives.

     During the ninth week the median has diminished re
latively, and in the transverse direction ; the laterals again
have increased relatively and also in the transverse direction.
This relative transverse increase of the lateral lobules is syn
chronous with the first appearance of the upper incisives. The
inferior incisives are so indistinct at this time, as to be recog
nised with difficulty as slight bulgings on the floor of the

dental groove.
     During the next fortnight the relative size of the median

     * A small cartilaginous body exists in the median intermaxillary lobule of
the child at birth. It is situated in front of the inferior orifice of the naso

palatine canal, and between the mucous membrane and periosteum.
     The median intermaxillary lobule exists in the adult palate, and may be

felt behind and between the central incisives. Median intermaxillary bones
and cartilages exist in certain of the lower vertebrata.

     The bar-like vomer of the human embryo at the sixth and seventh week
reminds the anatomist of the adult vomer of the lower vertebrata.

48 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

and lateral lobules remains the same, and there is no further
development of the superior incisives. During the same
period the inferior incisives have been rapidly increasing.

     Afterwards the median undergoes much relative trans
verse diminution, while at the same time the laterals acquire
a remarkable relative increase, which is accompanied by a
corresponding development of the superior incisives ; but the
inferiors have now got so much in advance as to retain their
advantage ever after.

On the Laws which regulate the development of the Pulps

and Sacs, and the period of appearance of each of the Tooth-
Germs. --In the description which has been given of the eariier

phenomena of dentition, it will be perceived that many of

them range themselves under the laws recognised by MM. G.
St. Hilaire, and Serres--viz. the law of symmetry (loi de sym

metric), the law of conjunction (loi de conjugaison), the law

of balancing or antagonism                        balancement des organes), and
I
the law of eccentric development (loi du developpement
          is
               aexcentrique).

                                             (leThe primitive and secondary dental grooves, the follicles,

the cavities of reserve, the osseous alveoli of the milk-teeth

and their septa, are all formed originally of two halves, which

ultimately join according to the laws of symmetry and con

junction.

The pulps of the milk-teeth* with their notched laminae

are productions from the external lip or ridge of the groove.

The interfollicular septa, and the osseous alveolar septa, are

also developed from without inward (loi du developpement

excentrique).

      have already pointed out the beautiful example of

* It       curious fact, that the first tooth-germs which appear --viz. those

of the superior anterior and inferior anterior milk-molars--are not productions

from the external lip of the dental groove, but bulgings on its floor.

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.  49

antagonism which exists between the median and lateral

Ielements of the intermaxillary system ; and may now point

out, from among the facts formerly detailed, a few instances
of the same kind, which must be referred to the same general

expression (loi de balancement).
     1. Before the tenth week the upper lip is full and pro

minent, but at that time it begins to recede and gradually to
disappear anteriorly, so as to expose the follicles and papillae

of the incisive teeth. It afterwards begins to regain its former

position and size, and at the fourteenth or fifteenth week it is
as large as the inferior, which from the first has not changed

its appearance.

    At the tenth week, when the lip begins to recede, the

maxillary palate advances its anterior extremity, so as to con
ceal in some degree the intermaxillary palate (median and
lateral lobules). When the middle of the lip has disappeared,
the maxillary has not only encroached upon the intermaxil
lary, but has also thrown itself into a bundle of irregular folds
at its anterior part. As the maxillary palate retires, and the
folds become regular crenated rugae, the anterior part of the
lip again appears, and at the fifteenth or sixteenth week, it is
full and prominent, when the maxillary palate has retired to
its proper position.

     2. When the outer lip of the primitive dental groove
sends off the laminaj, which constitute the greater part of each
of the interfollicular septa, and the floor of the secondary
groove, the lip itself almost disappears.

     The inner lip, again, which contributes a very small share
towards the accomplishment of this process, becomes so much

enlarged as to cover the whole groove.
     3. The external and internal lips of the primitive dental

groove are, originally, equally prominent. The former, when
it sends off the interfollicular septa, diminishes, while the latter
increases. When all the follicles of the primitive groove have

                                                                  E

50 ON THE ORIGIN AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE

been completed, the external lip begins to increase, and the
internal to diminish. This increase of the external lip goes
on after the closure of the secondary groove, until, at the fifth
month, it becomes very prominent, and is divided into an in
cisive, a canine, and molar portion, each of which has a general
similarity in shape to the acting portions of the correspond
ing divisions of the future tooth-ranges. As long as it remains
in this condition it is employed by the infant as a masti
cating organ. During this period the internal lip has alto
gether disappeared, except a small portion posteriorly ; but a
short time before the milk-teeth appear, it again increases, and
the raphe of the dental groove, instead of being hid behind the
base of the external lip, is situated on the ridge of the dental
arch, which now, as at first, is composed of two equally-deve
loped portions. The raphe forms a little border in the
situation just mentioned, and is familiar to the eye of the
surgeon, who, by its disappearance at any particular point,
can satisfy himself of the proximity of the milk-tooth under it.

     Careful observation of the whole process of Dentition in man
leads to the following conclusions: --

     Milk Teeth. -- 1. The milk-teeth are formed on both sides of
either jaw, in three divisions, a molar, a canine, and an incisive,
in each of which dentition proceeds in an independent manner.

     2. The dentition of the whole arch proceeds from behind
forwards --the molar division commencing before the canine,
and the latter before the incisive.

     3. The dentition of each of the divisions proceeds in a
contrary direction, the anterior molar appearing before the
posterior, the central incisive before the lateral

     4. Two of the subordinate phenomena of dentition also
obey this inverse law, the follicles closing by commencing at
the median line, and proceeding backwards, and the dental
groove disappearing in the same direction.

PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.  51

     5. Dentition commences in the upper jaw, and continues
in advance during the most important period of its progress.
The first tooth-germ which appears is that of the superior
anterior molar, which precedes that of the inferior anterior
molar.

     The apparent exception to this law in the case of the in

ferior incisive has already been explained.

    Permanent Teeth. --6. The germs of the permanent teeth,

with the exception of that of the anterior molar, appear in a

direction from the median line backwards.

     7. The milk-teeth originate, or are developed, from the

mucous membrane.

     8. The permanent teeth, also originating from mucous

membrane, are of independent origin, and have no connection

with the milk-teeth.

    9. A tooth-pulp and its sac must be referred to the same

class of organs as the combined papilla and follicle from which
a hair or feather is developed --viz. bulbs.*

     * An abstract of this paper was read at the last meeting of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science.

     Dr. Allen Thomson stated to me at that time, that he had no doubt that
the fact of the »u/£-tooth sacs being at one period open follicles had been ob

served, but that, then, he could not inform me where I could find it mentioned.
I saw Dr. Thomson in Edinburgh a few weeks afterwards, when, on looking

into Valentin's work on Development (Handbuch der Entwickelungs-ge-
schichte iies Menschen), he pointed out to me the fact that Arnold had observed
that the milk-tooth sacs were formed by a duplicature of the mucous mem

brane of the mouth, and had inserted a notice of the discovery in the Salzburg

Med. Chir. Zettung, 1831, p. 236. In order that Professor Arnold's discovery
(which appears to have been altogether overlooked both in this country and in

IFrance) may be more generally known, will give all his facts as he has re
corded them. His notice occupies less than a page, and I am not aware that

he has extended it elsewhere. At p. 236, loc. cit. he has observed, " In an
embryo at the ninth week, we may perceive in both jaws, on the projecting
edges of the gums, a proportionally pretty deep furrow, with ten depressions
in it ; a little later we may see a flat surface, on which there are many open-

52 PULPS AND SACS OF THE HUMAN TEETH.

ings, communicating with small sacs, into which fine bristles may be passed.
At the third month the sacs of the second molars may be seen communicating

with the cavity of the mouth by small holes. The openings of the remaining

sacs are soon closed by the mucous membrane of the mouth.  f

"The sacs of the permanent teeth are also formed immediately from the

mucous membrane of the mouth, partly at the fourth month of fcetal exist

ence, partly towards the end of that period, partly at birth. Once only, in a

Inew-born child, observed behind the most prominent edge of the gums

several openings which led to the sacs of the incisives and canines, and which

are usually already obliterated before birth."
    These are all the facts Arnold has recorded, and from them it appears that

he was acquainted at that time with the secondary dental groove, the ten milk-

follicles, and the ultimate closure of the latter. So far as we can judge from

his brief notice, he appears to have been unacquainted with the mode of for

mation of the permanent follicles, supposing them to be formed immediately

(unmittelbar) from the mucous membrane of the mouth, an opinion which is

very prevalent among the continental anatomists. I can only account for the

openings he mentions in the new-born child by arrest of development, or by

supposing that he had observed a few of the Tartar glands of Serres (Glandes
dentaires, Essai, etc., p. 28), which are best seen at the period to which he

alludes.

     Having now mentioned all the facts which Professor Arnold has published,

I may be allowed to state that I had made out all the facts detailed in this
Ipaper before I was aware that any of them had been on record ; that had

given an account of them at the last meeting of the British Association, before

I knew of Professor Arnold's notice ; and that this paper was in the hands of
the Editor of the Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal before I had an oppor

tunity of seeing the Salzburg periodical.

   I bad also demonstrated the principal facts in the follicular stage of denti
Ition, in 1835, to Mr. Nasmyth, to whom am deeply indebted for the infor

mation he has given me respecting the anatomy and surgery of these organs,

and in whose cabinet I at that time deposited preparations illustrative of the

facts.

-^

    FOLLICULAR STAGE OF DENTITION IN THE RUMINANTS. 53

II.--ON THE FOLLICULAK STAGE OF DENTITION
    IN THE RUMINANTS, WITH SOME EEMAEKS
    ON THAT PEOCESS IN THE OTHEE OEDEES
    OF MAMMALIA

Since the meeting of the British Association in 1838, at which

the paper on the development of the human teeth was read,

I have detected the follicular stage of dentition in the pig,

rabbit, cow, and sheep, but have not had an opportunity

of examining it in those animals in which observations
Iwould have been most valuable.
                                 have been able to

verify, what was at that time stated as probable --viz. that

all the permanent teeth, with the exception of the first molar,

which does not succeed a milk-tooth, are developed from the

internal surface of cavities of reserve, and that the depending

folds of the sacs of composite teeth are formed by the lips of

the follicles advancing inwards after closure of the latter. In

tracing the progress of development of the pulps and sacs

of the teeth in the cow and sheep, from their first appear

ance, as minute as possible, on the full surface of the

membrane of the mouth, or on the internal surface of the

cavities of reserve, till they have acquired their ultimate
Iconfiguration,
                 have to announce the fact, that at an

early period of the embryonic life of these animals they

possess the germs of canine and superior incisive teeth ;

the former existing as developed organs in two or three

genera only of ruminants, the latter being found in the

aberrant family of camels. These germs present them

selves under the form of slight dimples in the primitive

groove, and after the closure of the latter, they remain

54 ON THE FOLLICULAR STAGE OF

for a short time as opaque nodules imbedded in the gum,
in the course of the line of adhesion. The existence of

germs of canines and superior incisors in the cow and sheep
is highly interesting, as it shows how general the law of unity
of type is within certain limits. Geoffrey St. Hilaire was the
first to announce the existence of tooth-germs in the foetus of
the Balccna mysticctus, a fact which has been verified by Dr.
and Mr. Frederic Knox, in whose museum there is a prepara
tion exhibiting the germs under the form of sacs and pulps.
Although the germs never arrive at this stage of perfection in
the cow and sheep, they are yet distinct enough to indicate

Itheir existence ; and have no doubt that when embryos of

other partially or wholly edentulous mammals have been exa
mined, similar results will be obtained. The peculiar manner
in which the sac of a ruminant molar, and probably of every
other composite tooth, is formed, may be best seen in longi
tudinal or transverse sections of the sac and pulp of the fourth
permanent molar of the sheep or cow. The internal surface
of the cavity of reserve is seen to end in a fold or folds ; when

these meet, they begin to curve towards the papilla, and to
enter parallel to one another the cavity or notch which

is simultaneously forming in the latter. As soon as the
edges of the folds meet, the granular matter denominated
enamel-pulp by Hunter (the formation of which was de
 scribed in the human embryo, at the last meeting of the

 Association) begins to be deposited, cementing together the
 opposing folds, sealing up the new sac, separating it from the
 rest of the cavity of reserve, filling up the space existing
 between the pulp and sac, and ultimately assisting in the
 formation of the depending folds of the latter.

     A distinction must be drawn between those permanent

 teeth which are developed from the primitive, and those

Iwhich are developed from the secondary groove. have been

 in the habit of dividing the teeth of these animals, the denti-

3^

            DENTITION IN THE RUMINANTS.  55

Ition of which have examined, into three classes --viz. 1st.

Milk or primitive teeth, developed in a primitive groove,

and deciduous. 2d. Transition teeth, developed in a primi

tive groove, but permanent. 3d. Secondary teeth, developed
Iin a secondary groove, and permanent.
                                         hope that other

anatomists may verify and extend this line of research, as

the results appear to me not only confirmatory of certain

great general laws of organisation, but as leading, by the

only legitimate path, to the determination of the organic

system to which the teeth belong (a subject exciting great
interest at present), and as it may enable us in investigating

the relations of dental tissue to true bone, to avoid the error

of confounding, what there appears to be a tendency to do,

analogy with affinity. In recapitulation of the principal
facts it may be said :-- 1. In all the mammalia examined

the follicular stage of dentition was observed. 2. The pulps

and sacs of all the permanent teeth of the cow and sheep,

with the exception of the fourth molar, are formed from

the minor surfaces of cavities of reserve. 3. The depend

ing folds of the sacs of composite teeth are formed by the

folding in of the edges of the follicle towards the base of

the contained pulp, the granular body assisting in the for

mation of these folds. 4 The cow and sheep (and probably
all the other ruminants) possess the germs of canines and

superior incisives at an early period of their embryonic

existence.

56 ON THE MODE IN WHICH MUSKET-BULLETS BECOME

III.-- ON THE MODE IN WHICH MUSKET-BULLETS

    AND OTHER FOREIGN BODIES BECOME IN
    CLOSED IN THE IVORY OF THE TUSKS OF
    THE ELEPHANT-- Plate II.

Musket-bullets are occasionally found inclosed in ivory,

and every anatomical museum contains specimens of this

kind. Why bullets should be so frequently met with in this

situation it is not easy to say : the head of the elephant

appears to be generally aimed at, and foreign bodies, when they

enter the tusks, instead of being removed in the usual manner

are retained by the process, an investigation of which is to

form the subject of the present paper. My attention was

directed to this subject by Mr. Syme, who submitted to me

for examination some highly interesting specimens of bullets

in ivory, presented to the Anatomical Museum of the Uni

versity by Sir John Robison. Sir John has also kindly

afforded me an opportunity of examining some remarkable

examples of wounded ivory, and Sir George Ballingall has

directed my attention to preparations in his possession, which

have satisfied me of the truth of those opinions on the sub

Iject which shall now have the honour of submitting to the

Royal Society.

One circumstance was at once detected in all these speci

mens, and its importance was evident, as affording a clue to

the explanation of the mode of inclosure. The circumstance
Ito which allude
                  is,  that in none of the specimens are the

bullets or foreign bodies surrounded by regular ivory. They

are in every instance inclosed in masses, more or less bulky,

VoL.U        pluu. a

^777.Zi 7."


       ENCLOSED IN THE TUSKS OF THE ELEPHANT.  57

of a substance which, although abnormal in the tusk of the

elephant, is nevertheless well known to the comparative ana

tomist as occupying the interior of the teeth of some of the

other mammals, and usually considered to be ossified pulp.

It was evident that the pulp had ossified round the bullet, as

the first step towards the separation of the latter from it. In

one specimen the bullet has become enveloped in a hollow

sphere of this substance, on the surface of which the orifices

of medullary canals are situated. In other specimens the

irregular ivory, which surrounds the balls, had become smooth

on its surface, the medullary canals had disappeared, and the

regular ivory had been formed in a continuous layer over the
surface of the mass. In one tusk a cicatrix was seen occupy

ing the hole through which the ball had passed, a circum

stance which, when seen in similar specimens, has greatly

perplexed anatomists. It was observed, however, that in

this instance the shot had passed through that part of the

tusk which had been within the socket ; and bearing in mind
that the tusk is an organ of double . growth, it appeared pro

bable that the shot had been plugged up from within by the

ossified pulp, and from without by the continued growth of

cement, without any regeneration of the displaced ivory--a

hypothesis which was afterwards verified by examination.

Before proceeding to give a more detailed account of this
Iinteresting process,
                       shall state very briefly the opinions of

those authors who have written on the subject, so as to ascer

tain how near they had approached to the truth, and to point

out the fallacies which had led them astray.

Klockner mentions a ball of gold which was found by a

turner of Amsterdam in the substance of an elephant's tusk.

The longitudinal fibres of the tusk surrounded the metal in

an irregular manner, and were separated from the sound ivory

by a concentric chink situated at some distance from the

ball.

 58 ON THE MODE IN WHICH MUSKET-BULLETS BECOME

      Camper, in the Descrijttion Anatomique cFun Elephant
 Male, remarks that it is not unusual to see foreign bodies in
 closed, or as it were soldered, into the substance of the ivory.
 The same anatomist also figures and describes a bullet which
 was inclosed in a very irregular mass of ivory, covered with
long appendages, which were directed parallel to the axis of
the tusk. The metallic bodies in question, he remarks, must
have penetrated across the alveolus into the hollow of the
tusk, and must have remained for a long time in the substance
of the pulpy flesh which fills that cavity, because the ivory
enveloped them on all sides, and would at length have carried
them beyond the alveolus by the increase of the tooth. He
supposes that the nodules which are formed around the balls
and the very incomplete union of their fibres with the sound
ivory, add weight to this conjecture. Euysch, in his X. The
saurus, Plate II., figures brass and iron bullets inclosed in
isolated nodules of irregular ivory.

      Blumenbach considers the tusks of the elephant to differ
from other teeth, more particularly in the remarkable patho
logical phenomenon of bullets, with which the animal has
been shot, being found, on sawing through the tusk, imbedded
in its substance in a peculiar manner. He looks upon this
fact as important in reference to the doctrine of a " nutritio
ultra vasa." He mentions a tusk, equal in size to a man's
thigh, in which an unflattened leaden bullet lay close to the
cavity of the tooth, surrounded by a peculiar covering, and
the entrance from without closed as it were by a cicatrix.
From these facts Blumenbach concludes that the elephant's
tusk, when fractured or perforated, can pour out an ossific

juice to repair the injury.
     Mr. Lawrence, in his notes to Blumenbach's Comparative

Anatomy, overlooking these cases (one of which is given in
the text of his author) in which cicatrices have been seen
filling up the orifices produced by balls, explains satisfactorily

ENCLOSED IN THE TUSKS OF THE ELEPHANT.                                          59

enough those instances in which no such cicatrices exist, and

concludes by denying the power of the ivory to throw out

ossific matter, as asserted by Blumenbach.

The author of the Ossemens Fossiles, in his chapter on the

Structure, Development, and Diseases of the Tusks of the

Elephant, after stating that grooves and notches on the sur

faces of the tusks never fill up, and only disappear from the

effects of friction, allows that musket-balls are found in ivory

without any apparent hole by which they could have entered.

He does not believe that the holes are filled up with ossific

deposition, as Haller and Blumenbach supposed ; but main

tains that they are never obliterated. He states that the ivory

on the outside of the ball is natural, and that it is only the

bone surrounding it which is irregular. The phenomena are

to be explained, he says, by supposing the balls to penetrate

the very thin bases of tusks in young elephants, so as to enter

the pulps when still in a growing state.

      There appear, then, to be two circumstances, regarding

which great doubts still exist --first, whether a shot-hole is

ever closed up ; and, secondly, how this is accomplished in a

non-vascular substance like ivory.

    In proceeding to consider this subject, two facts must be

                   it

                       is

                             it

                                    ; is

                                                          it

                                                                        is is,
borne in mind in reference to a tusk. The first that the

two substances of which  composed, ivory and cement,

undergo no change of form or arrangement from vital action,

after they are once deposited the second, that                                  an organ

of double growth --  endogenous as well as exogenous, the

ivory being formed from without inwards, the cement from

within outwards.

As there are certain processes which invariably commence

when foreign body passes through or lodges in the pulp,
will facilitate the conception of the mode in which bullet
a

   if

                                                        is
                                                                                      a

                                                                          is it
inclosed these be described first. Eecent researches have

proved that the regular ivory of teeth formed by the cells

60 ON THE MODE IN WHICH MUSKET-BULLETS BECOME

on the surface of the pulp becoming solid from the deposition

of earthy salts in their walls and cavities. It is evident from

this that when a portion of the surface of the tusk-pulp is
destroyed by the passage of a ball, the formation of ivory at
that spot must cease. But we know that the formation of
irregular ivory commences, which indicates the existence of a
healing process in the pulp. The mode in which the wounded
pulp heals cannot be ascertained ; but it is accomplished pro
bably by effusion and subsequent absorption of blood, depo
sition of lymph, and regeneration of the peculiar tissue of the
pulp. So far this process is conjectural, but the irregular
ivory, formed by the regenerated pulp, is the subject of ob
servation. When the ball passes quite across the pulp, the
track heals, but does not necessarily ossify, except in the im
mediate neighbourhood of the ivory.

      There are two exceptions, however, to the non-ossification

of the track of the ball-- namely, the ossification which takes
place round the bullet, and that which occurs round the
whole or any portion of the track, which may suppurate and
form a sinus or abscess. In both these cases deposition of
irregular ivory takes place, assuming the same characters as
the irregular masses which appear at the two extremities of
the track of the ball through the pulp.

      The ossification round the ball generally assumes the form
of a hollow sphere. Its surface exhibits a number of holes
 (which are the orifices of medullary canals), and these are
occasionally prolonged through stalactitic-looking processes,
which lie in the direction of the axis of the tooth. The ossi

fication surrounding an abscess or sinus assumes the appear
ance of a shell of variable thickness, and directed towards one
or both of the shot-holes.

      When thin sections of this irregular ivory are examined
under the microscope, it is seen to consist of a transparent
matrix, in which exist numerous medullary canals, showing

ENCLOSED IN THE TUSKS OF THE ELEPHANT.  61

traces of dried pulp in their interior. From these canals,
which correspond to the Haversian canals of true bone, se
condary medullary canals, similar to those in the teeth of
certain fishes, radiate. The sides and extremities of these

secondary medullary canals send off numerous minute tubes,
which are true Eetzian tubes, and similar to those in the re

gular ivory, but not so closely set. These Eetzian tubes have
a general radiating direction, and proceed in irregular wavy
bundles, which sweep past one another without mingling, but
branching particularly at their extremities.

      The great central medullary canals are very numerous, and
each of them has its own system of secondary canals and
Eetzian tubes.

      These individual systems, when seen in a mass of irregular
ivory, appear globular or spindle-shaped; when viewed in
section, they resemble circular or oval opaque spots with a
hole in the centre. These individual systems, however, are
not isolated ; for they communicate, first, by means of the
 central canals, which constitute an inosculating system ; and
secondly, by the ramifying extremities of the Eetzian tubes,
which communicate through the medium of cells more or less
minute, and which are more numerous in some places than in

others.

      The formation of the irregular ivory does not go on inde
 finitely ; a limit is set to its increase, and the changes which

Iensue at this stage of the process are highly interesting.

 have already mentioned the existence of the orifices of Haver
 sian or medullary canals on the surface of the mass of irregular
 ivory. When the further formation of this is to terminate,
 these orifices are gradually closed, and appear like imperforated

projections on the surface. It is evident, therefore, that the
 enclosed vascular contents of the canals --that is to say, the

 ramified processes of the tusk-pulp in the irregular ivory --are
 cut off from the system. They dry up, and the formation of

62 ON THE MODE IN WHICH MUSKET-BULLETS BECOME

ivory in the interior ceases. The peripheral surface of the
irregular ivory is now, in reference to the general pulp, in the
same relation as the whole internal surface of the irregular
ivory of the tusk. The pulp, therefore, becomes converted

into ivory, not only on the whole internal surface of the tusk,
but also on the surface of the newly-formed mass. The cause
of the formation of the irregular ivory to a limited extent only,

Iwhen it exists as an abnormal structure, have not been able

to ascertain ; but its mode of development and limitation is

highly interesting, and forms a leading distinction between a
tooth and a true bone under similar circumstances.

     From this description it is evident that the abnormal ivory
in the elephant's tusk strongly resembles, if it be not identical
with, the peculiar substance which fills the pulp-cavities of
the tusks of the walrus and the teeth of the cetacea, first an

nounced as a distinct species of dental tissue in a paper read
before this society five years ago by Dr. Knox, and since

minutely described by Eetzius, Owen, and Alexander
Nasmyth. *

     This identity of a diseased structure in one animal with a
normal structure in another is remarkable, and must be looked

     * Cuvier described this species of dental tissue in the tusk of the walrus,

and compared it to pudding-stone. Dr. Knox, in the paper to which I have

referred in the text, affirmed that, in addition to the cement, enamel, and
ivory, a fourth substance --namely, the substance described by Cuvier --entered
into the formation of many teeth. He stated that, in the teeth of certain
fishes, this substance, or a tissue closely allied to it, constituted the greater
part of their mass ; the other three elements having disappeared or become
greatly diminished in bulk or importance. Retzius has accurately described
the microscopic structure of this class of dental substances as existing in dif
ferent animals. Mr. Owen has extended and confirmed the observations of
Retzius. Lastly, to Mr. A. Nasmyth belongs the merit of having pointed out
the resemblance which this kind of substance (which he denominates ossified
pulp) bears to diseased ivory in the tusks of the elephant, and still more closely
to the substance which fills the pulp-cavity of the aged human tooth. In
ignorance of Dr. Knox's previous observations, he announced this kind of ivory
as a fourth dental substance.

     ENCLOSED IN THE TUSKS OF THE ELEPHANT.     63

upon as another instance indicating the existence of a system

of laws regulating the relations between healthy and morbid
tissues --laws which have been speculated upon, but have

never been sufficiently investigated by anatomists.
     Having now given the anatomical characters of the ab

normal ivory which invariably surrounds musket-bullets and
other foreign bodies which lodge in the pulps of the tusks of

Ithe elephant, shall proceed to state the various conditions

under which these enter the organ, and the changes which

ensue.

    Foreign bodies enter the tusk in three ways --first, through

the free portion of the tusk ; secondly, through that part of
the organ which is contained in the socket ; and thirdly, from
above through the base of the pulp.

    First. When the ball hits the free portion of the tusk, if

it only penetrates to a certain depth of the ivory, no change
whatsoever can take place. Neither the cement nor the ivory
can be reproduced. In course of time the hole may be obli
terated, the ball may be got rid of by wearing down of the

ivory, and the ivory under the hole may be strengthened by
the formation of new substance. When the ball is detained

by the ivory, but penetrates so far as to wound the pulp, the

     it,
                        it,
                                     is
latter ossifies around and the ossified portion sooner or later
Ifbecomes enveloped in new ivory.
                                   the ball penetrates the

pulp, the latter ossifies round  and becomes attached to
Ifthe hole in the ivory.
                          the tusk       growing rapidly,

it,and the nucleus of pulp-bone does not speedily adhere to

   the ball will ultimately be situated above the hole. The

ball may also pass across the pulp, and become at last en
veloped, along with its bony envelope, in the ivory of the

opposite wall.

    Second. In the second class of wounds, in which the ball

enters the pulp-cavity through the socket and side of the tusk,
the consequent changes seem to be the following -- First,
                                             :

64 ON THE MODE IN WHICH MUSKET-BALLS BECOME

ossification of the pulp surrounding the ball, and the ultimate

application of the mass to the hole in the ivory, and, as the
latter is necessarily at this part of its extent very thin, the hole

is closed ; second, the application to the hole in the ivory and
to the surface of the ossified pulp in of cement formed by
        a
               a

                            it

                                                a

                                                    it,
the internal surface of the tusk-follicle. For although the ball

may have removed, or at least torn, the follicle opposite the
hole in the ivory, yet, as the tooth advances in the socket, the
ball will in time arrive at sound portion of the latter.

One of the specimens exhibited to the Society proves that
the wounded portion of the follicle may perform this duty
sufficiently well. In the external surface of the cement
exhibits longitudinal fissure, with smooth rounded edges,
resulting from the defective formation of cement in the
situation of longitudinal rent or wound in the membrane

of the follicle, through which the ball had entered the

ivory. The hole in the ivory then being plugged up ex

ternally by cement, and internally by ossified pulp, the case
proceeds as in the last class of wounds --the ossified portion

of the pulp surrounding the ball becoming enclosed in true

ivory.

     Third. When the foreign body enters from above, without

        a

                                   ;

                                       a

                               I it,
wounding the tusk, the pulp ossifies round               and true ivory

envelopes the mass in the usual manner.                  have not seen

any morbid ivory which could be referred to wounds of the

class now under consideration but very interesting account

is   given by Mr. Comb in the Philosophical Transactions, 1801,
    a
of tusk in which spear-head was found, and which could

only have entered the cavity from the base of the pulp. Mr.
Comb describes and figures the ossified portion of the pulp, and
the manner in which had attached itself to the ivory, and
        it,
          it
become covered by so as to obliterate partially and to alter
the relative width of the pulp-cavity.

     The description have now given of the changes which
        I

ENCLOSED IN THE TOSKS OF THE ELEPHANT.  05

ensue on wounds of the tusks of the elephant explains many
curious appearances in ivory, and the difficulties anatomists

and physiologists have had in understanding them.

    It explains the drawings and descriptions of Klockner,

Ruysch, and Camper ; does away with the necessity of suppos
ing, with Blumenbach, that true ivory is regenerated, or that it

can throw out ossific juice to produce cicatrices ; and leads us
to believe that Cuvier, in denying the possibility of the obli
teration of a shot-hole, had allowed himself to be deceived.

All difficulties are got over and contradictions reconciled by

bearing in mind the different circumstances insisted upon in
this paper, namely --

     1. That a tusk is an endogenous as well as an exogenous

organ.

     2. That the pulp forms irregular ivory round foreign
bodies, and at wounds on its surface.

     3. That the membrane of the follicle is an important agent
in closing up the holes produced by foreign bodies which pene
trate a tusk through the socket.

66 ON THE SUPRA-RENAL, THYMUS, AND THYROID BODIES.

    IV.-- ON THE SUPRA-RENAL, THYMUS, AND
              THYROID BODIES.-- Plate III.

While engaged, two years ago, in observing the structure

Iof the lymphatic glands, my attention was directed to the

thymus, thyroid, and supra-renal bodies ; and was led to
frame a hypothesis, which, although afterwards requiring

Isome modification, has, conceive, nevertheless enabled me to

detect, if not the real physiological, at least the morphological

signification of these apparently anomalous organs.
     My hypothesis was, that the thyroid, thymus, and supra

renal bodies are the remains of the blastoderma ; the thyroid
being a portion of the original cellular substance of the ger
minal membrane grouped around the two principal branches
of the omphalo-mesenteric vein ; the supra-renal capsules,
constituting other portions grouped around the omphalo
mesenteric arteries ; and the thymus, the intermediate portion
of the same membrane arranged along the sides of the em
bryonic visceral cavity.

     Subsequent observations have satisfied me that this hypo
thesis is essentially correct, with the exception of that part of

Iit relating to the thyroid, which body have now ascertained

to be a portion of the membrana intermedia of Reichert,
which remains in connection with anastomosing vessels
between the first and second aortic arches, or carotid and sub
clavian arteries.

     In the embryo of the sheep, while the branchial clefts are
still open, and for some time afterwards, there is a quantity of

lf!"A  ->*>-/./ m

       njSg .-:.- ; . ...


        ON THE SUPRA- RENAL, THYMUS, AND THYROID BODIES. 67

blastema arranged in minute lobular masses around the ante
rior parts of the cardinal veins of Eathke, surrounding the
jugular veins and ductus Cuvieri for a short distance behind
the forepart of the Wolffian bodies. Immediately in front of
the Wolffian bodies these lateral masses of blastema are narrow,
being scarcely perceptible on the coats of the cardinal veins ;
but around the ductus Cuvieri they are larger, and differ from
the general texture of the embryo, in having a darker colour,
in containing no fibres, in separating readily from the sur
rounding parts, and in their lobulated appearance. They
extend forwards nearly to the base of the cranium, and are not
connected across the median plain. They are broadest at the
sides of the heart, and when the pericardium is opened, are
seen through its posterior wall occupying the future situations
of the lungs, which at the period stated exist as two small
lobulated white bodies, projecting from the intestinal tube,
behind and below the heart.

      These two lateral masses are the only remaining portions
of the membrana intermedia : the posterior portion on each
side, on the inner aspect of the anterior extremity of the
Wolffian body, becomes the supra-renal capsule ; the enlarged
middle portion and the outer part of the cervical portion
become the thymus ; while the internal anterior part resolves
itself into the thyroid body. These three organs are therefore
at this period continuous with one another on each side of the
middle line, no isthmus having yet been formed. They are
also continuous with the Wolffian bodies ; these bodies, the

supra-renal capsule, the thymus, and the thyroid, forming a
continuous mass, situated in the elongated angular channel,
which stretches from the cranium to the coccyx on the outside
of the intestinal or mesenteric laminae, and between them and
the visceral laminae.

      The Wolffian bodies are the last organs formed out of the
membrana intermedia, which assume a special structure.- The

68 ON THE SUPRA-RENAL, THYMUS, AND THYROID BODIES.

supra-renal capsules, the thymus, and thyroid, retain through
out their existence the original texture of the blastoderma.

   IProceeding therefore in the order of formation as well as

of position from the Wolffian body, shall state very briefly

Iwhat have observed concerning the mode of development of

the supra-renal capsules, thymus, and thyroid.

    In the embryo of the sheep, in which the branchial clefts

are still quite open, the omphalo-mesenteric vessels well
developed, the liver consisting of an equal-sized lobe on each
side of the intestinal tube, the Wolffian bodies well formed,

the allantois beginning to protrude from the abdomen, and
the umbilical vessels already apparent, there may be seen
between the internal anterior part of the Wolffian bodies and
the aorta at the origin of the omphalo-mesenteric arteries, and
also around the omphalo-mesenteric vein, where that vessel is
passing forward into the liver, a mass of blastema spread over
the internal surface of the fore-part of the Wolffian body, and
arranged in one or more masses between that gland and the

aorta.

    In embryos rather more advanced, these masses of blastema

become less distinct, apparently from their increased bulk
causing them to be applied more uniformly over the anterior
extremities of the Wolffian bodies. They may always be
detected by their whiter appearance, and by being destitute
of the cross-markings produced by the ducts of the Wolffian

glands.

    It is not till the testes, ovaries, and kidneys have appeared,

that the supra-renal capsules are recognised as distinct organs ;
and their progress after this period need not be considered
further at present.

      The cardinal veins of Eathke pass forward along the pos
terior and lateral part of the Wolffian bodies ; after passing
beyond the blunt anterior extremities of these bodies, each
vein carries with or covered by thin layer of the bias
it,
         is

                                    a

        ON THE SUPRA-RENAL, THYMUS, AND THYROID BODIES. 69

tema already alluded to as forming at its posterior part the
supra-renal capsule. This portion of the blastema becomes
much larger at the side of the heart, round the ductus Cuvieri,
behind the lateral parts of the pericardium, and in the future
situation of the lungs, which have not yet left their median
position. Each lateral portion of the blastema stretches from
the heart forwards along the internal side of the jugular vein,
par vagum, and carotid arteries. These two anterior portions
of the lateral blastema, from the narrow portion forwards to
the skull, are the lateral portions of the thymus and thyroid,
which have not yet joined across the middle line.

     In embryos a little further advanced, the two portions of

blastema join across the trachea in a line extending from the
base of the heart to the lower end of the larynx, which has
now appeared as an oblong oval swelling behind the tongue.
Previous to, and also contemporaneous with, this cross junc
tion, a change has occurred in the position of the lungs and of
the ductus Cuvieri.

     As the lungs proceed in development, they pass in a
direction from behind forwards and from within outwards,
moving from their original median position to a lateral one :

they at the same time increase both absolutely and relatively.

At the same time, a somewhat similar change takes place in
the two ductus Cuvieri. They pass forward so as to appear
to enter the anterior instead of the posterior extremity of the
auricle, becoming in this way the anterior venae cavae, this
change of position being produced apparently by a semi-
revolution of the whole heart, coinciding with its elongation
and the altered arrangement of the bulbous aortae.

     Coincident with this change in the ductus Cuvieri is a
corresponding change in the position of the lateral masses of
the blastema. These pass forward, become grouped around
the auricles and anterior venae cavae, and join across the
middle line as already stated ; but a narrow portion, particu

70 ON THE SUPRA-RENAL, THYMUS, AND THYROID BODIES.

larly along the left side, still passes downwards and back
wards along the cardinal veins, which have now become the

azygos veins.

     While these changes in the veins and blastema have
taken place, the lungs have increased in size, and their
roots have taken up their proper position. In consequence of
this change in the position of the pulmonary roots and of
the ductus Cuvieri, the cardinal veins arch over the root of
the lungs in the same manner as the azygos vein of the adult

does.

    At the same time the blastema of opposite sides unites, as

has been stated, across and in front of the base of the heart

and root of the neck.
     Shortly after this period, the posterior part of the blas

tema, which has now advanced, as already stated, from the
sides of the chest to the front of the heart, becomes separated
by a narrow neck from the cervical portion. The posterior
part has now become the thoracic portion of the thymus, and
in the embryo of the sheep is largest on the left side, corres
ponding in this respect to the large size of the left vena azygos
and left vena cava at this period.

     The cervical portion of the blastema now begins to exhibit
a separation into the thyroid and cervical portion of the
thymus. This is effected by the absorption of a portion of the
blastema, of a triangular form, a little behind the larynx, the
apex looking backwards, the concave base forwards, so that
the future thyroid presents a crescentic form, its sides being
as yet united to the anterior horns of the thymus, which pass
along the jugular veins.

     The thyroid now separates more completely from the
thymus, by the prolongation forwards of the absorption pre
viously mentioned from the anterior angles of the triangular
portion, so as to separate the thyroid from the anterior horns
of the thymus ; at the same time the posterior angle of the

        ON THE SUPRA-RENAL, THYMUS, AND THYROID BODIES. 71

absorbed portion passing back so as almost again to separate
the cervical portion of the thymus into two lateral portions.

     As development advances the thyroid becomes more com
pletely separated from the thymus, and the lateral portions of
the cervical part of the latter are united only by the narrow
portion which connects them with the thoracic lobe of the

organ.

     At this stage a distinction may be observed, with low
magnifying power, in the texture of the two organs. The
thyroid is more opaque and homogeneous, the thymus consists
of minute granular masses imbedded in a semitransparent
matrix. The component elements of the textures of the two
organs is however identical -- namely, simple nucleated cells

Igrouped around dark points, which am inclined to regard as

centres of nutrition. In the thyroid, these groups are sepa

rated and connected by a more or less dense highly vascular
areolar texture. In the thymus this texture is weak or

deficient.
     After this period no great change occurs in the thyroid

and thymus of the sheep ; the anterior extremities of the
horns of the thymus on each side presenting two bulbous
enlargements near the base of the skull, close to the ganglions
of the vagus.

     Four minute white cords may now be seen passing into
the superior, and two into the inferior border of the thyroid.
These are the inferior and superior thyroid arteries, branches
respectively from the first and second branchial arteries.

     From these observations it would appear that the supra

renal capsules, the thymus, and thyroid, are persistent portions
of the membrana intermedia of the germinal area of the ovum,
retaining throughout their existence the original simple
cellular constitution of that portion of the germinal mem

brane.

   I shall now endeavour to explain in how far the observa

72 ON THE SUPHA-EENAL, THYMUS, AND THYROID BODIES.

tions just detailed appear to me to enable us to trace the

functional import and anatomical peculiarities of these organs.
     During the first stage of the development of the animal

ovum, digestion and respiration --the absorption and prepara
tion of nutriment --are carried on by the blastoderma, a struc

ture consisting of nucleated cells and of vessels.

      The cells, of which the blastoderma consists, are the pro

geny of that previously occupying the germinal spot of the

ovum, and are continually reproduced and increased in num

bers by the production of others from the nutritive centres, or

secondary germinal spots distributed over it.

      Materials for the nutrition of the blastoderma are derived

from the subjacent yelk. The matter resulting from the solu

tion of a certain number of the secondary blastodermal cells --

      of the progeny of the primary blastodermal cells, or
that  is,
                          is is
nutritive centres -- employed by the nutrient matter of the

remaining secondary or proper blastodermal cells. In this

way " pabulum"                   afforded for two purposes -- the growth of

the blastoderma, and the growth of the embryo itself.

During the early period of the existence of the blasto

derma, before the circulation has been established, the product

of solution of the elder at once absorbed by the younger
                                 is
                                               is
cells. During the later periods, the product of solution drops

into the incipient loops of the blood-vessels, and so circulates

for purposes of nutrition. This                    an instance of primary

lymphatic absorption, and differs in no essential particular

from the same process in the animal further advanced. We

may consider the blastoderma in fact, during the first period
of its circulation, as containing very numerous lymphatic

ducts, instead of few, as in the more perfect animal.is
         a
    In the blastoderma, the process by which nutrient matter

passes into the circulation, or the act of absorption, as  it
                                                               is

usually called, reduced to its most simple form, being con

temporaneous and also identical with the formation of the

ON THE SUPRA-RENAL, THYMUS, AND THYROID BODIES. 73

imperfect capillary network. In the more advanced animal,

when the capillary network is consolidated, the product of

solution of the textures passes or drops into the intercellular

or textural lacunae, which appear to be the radicles of the
lymphatic system ; a system which in the adult communicates
with the blood-vessels only at a few places in the neighbour
hood of the trunks of the original blastodermal veins.

The blastoderma may be considered therefore not only as

the first form which the being assumes after the commence

ment of development, and as a basis out of and in which its

higher structures are to be raised, but also, as has been already
stated, the organ of primary digestion --that
                                               of the appro
a
                                                is,

                                                  is
priation and elaboration by the individual of nutritive matter

already prepared, to certain extent, by another individual or

organ.

    All the principal organs and parts of the future being are

formed in, and out of, portions of the blastoderma. The

laminae dorsales, the cerebro-spinal axis, the visceral laminae,

the intestinal tube, heart, and liver, derive their origin from
this source. Their original relation to this part soon lost

sight of from changes in their positions, but principally from
the increased development of their original blastema, and its

change into the various textures, and from the various arrange
ment of these textures in the organs.

      There are three organs, however, which still retain their
primitive structure after all the other parts of the animal have
undergone their complete development, so as finally to exhibit

no trace of their original simple texture and arrangement.

These organs are the supra-renal capsules, the thymus, and

thyroid.
     The structure of each of these three organs essentially

the same they consist of masses of nucleated cells. These
:

                                                                   is

cells are grouped around numerous germinal spots arranged
throughout the mass, and which may be supposed to act as

 74 ON THE SUPRA-RENAL, THYMUS, AND THYROID BODIES.

centres of origin and of nutrition, each for its own group.
The mass of the organ is supplied with blood-vessels to convey
the blood to and from the part, and with lymphatics which
receive the product of solution of the cells, and convey it
back again into the general circulation, whence it was origin
ally derived.

      The account of the structure of the thymus given by Sir
Astley Cooper is so far incorrect, as this organ contains no
reservoirs or cavities in its substance. The cavities exhibited
by Sir Astley Cooper in his drawings and preparations are
the results of modes of preparing. They are artificial cavities
formed by distension, between the somewhat smooth, highly
vascular, and slightly adhering outer surfaces of contiguous
lobules ; the whole organ being at the same time bound
together by a stronger external areolar texture. No milky
fluid is found naturally in these interlobular spaces. Indeed,
Sir Astley Cooper says, that " the best mode of obtaining it is
by cutting the gland into very small pieces and placing them
upon gauze, which being squeezed, the solid is separated from
the fluid part, and the latter escapes through the gauze."

     The thymus, from the time it assumes its most perfect
structure till it begins to degenerate into fatty substance, con
sists of lobes connected by areolar fibres, without cavities or
ducts, formed of nucleated cells grouped around germinal
spots, deriving matter for the formation of their cells from
arteries passing into and being relieved of its venous blood
by returning veins, being plentifully supplied with lymphatics,
which do not communicate with the supposed reservoirs, as
has been suggested, but appear to take their origin, as in other
parts, by intercellular lacunae, in which the walls seem gradu
ally to lose themselves, as the ducts of the liver are lost
among the secreting cells of that organ.

     The thyroid body possesses structure which essentially

the same as that of the thymus. It differs from the thymus
it,

                 a
                                              is

       ON THE SUPRA-RENAL, THYMUS, AND THYROID BODIES. 75

in not being divided into lobules, in having the groups of cells
of which it consists separated from one another by moderately
strong capsular membranes, and in being more vascular, the
anterior and venous trunks being much larger.

     The supra-renal capsules also consist of nucleated cells
grouped round germinal spots, and arranged, not in lobules,
but in columns passing towards the surface of the organs ; an
arrangement corresponding to the radiating direction of the
veins, and the converging arteries of these parts. The supra
renal and thyroid bodies are more vascular than the thymus
from being developed around large arteries, while the thymus
is in connection with smaller trunks, the former being de
veloped in connection with the first and second aortic arches
and the omphalo-mesenteric vessels ; the latter in connection
with the internal mammary arteries and other small thoracic
and cervical branches. The greater density of the areolar
capsule of the thyroid may probably be explained by this in
creased vascular supply.

      That portion of the membrana intermedia which is sepa
rated from the rest of the membrane, and included in the body
of the embryo by the umbilical constriction, and which has
not already been devoted to the formation of the heart, liver,
pancreas, and external portion of the intestinal canal, is found
massed along the trunks of the primitive venous system, the
sides of the arches of the aorta, the terminal portion of that
vessel, and the origins of the omphalo-mesenteric arteries.

      The portions of the membrana intermedia which are last
of being converted into special organs, the Wolffian bodies, are
the parts which project one on each side of the aorta, along
the posterior part of the cardinal veins of Eathke, between
the intestinal plates and visceral lamina.

      The portions of the membrana intermedia which remain
between the upper extremities of the Wolffian bodies and the
heart and liver, and which surround the origins of the om

 76 ON THE SUPRA-RENAL, THYMUS, AND THYROID BODIES.

 phalo-mesenteric arteries, do not become converted into organs
 of special structure, but retain during life the original consti
tution of the membrana intermedia of the blastoderma, and
increase rapidly in the embryo, constituting the supra-renal
 capsules. Whatever doubt may be entertained as to the exact
functional import of these bodies, the identity of their ana
tomical constitution with that of the blastoderma is sufficiently
evident, and their morphological signification appears to be

 equally so.
      That portion of the membrana intermedia which is situated

between those two aortic arches, the extremities of which

become the carotid and subclavian arteries, remains during

life as the thyroid body. It receives its blood from the first

and second aortic arches by two large trunks on each side, the
superior and inferior thyroid arteries.

      That portion of the membrane which passes in two parts
from near the base of the cranium back as far as the ductus
Cuvieri and anterior portions of the veins of Eathke, and
which are united and concentrated in front of the heart by
passing from behind forwards, in harmony with corresponding
motions of the neighbouring part, becomes the thymus.

     The structure of these three organs is identical with that

of the blastoderma. Their probable function --namely, to

prepare by the action of their nucleated cells, and to throw
into the vascular system, a matter necessary for the nutrition
of the animal during the period of its active growth -- a func
tion which the observations and opinions of the majority of
physiologists have assigned to them -- is also essentially the
same with that of the blastoderma.

     The question as to the exact or intimate nature of the
function of these organs can only be answered by further in

quiries in chemical physiology. It appears to me to be suffi

cient at present to insist that their function, as deduced
from their structure and anatomical relations, is similar to

       ON THE SUPRA-RENAL, THYMUS, AND THYROID BODIES. 7*7

that performed by the blastoderma, whatever the exact nature
of that function may be.

   I have therefore been- led to consider the supra-renal

capsules, the thymus, and thyroid, as organs essentially similar
in structure ; as developments of the remains of the blasto
derma, being formed of a continuous portion of that part
situated along each side of the spine, from the Wolffian bodies
to the base of the cranium, the supra-renal capsules being de
veloped in connection with the omphalo-mesenteric vessels,
the thymus to the jugular and cardinal veins, and ductus
Cuvieri ; and the thyroid to the anastomosing branches of the
first and second aortic arches, as organs performing functions,
whatever these may be, analogous to those of the blastoderma,
differing from them only in this, that the blastoderma not only
elaborates nourishment for the embryo, but absorbs it also
from without-- that from the yelk whereas the three organs
in question only elaborate the matter which has already been
absorbed by the other parts, and now circulating in the
vessels of the more perfect individual.
is,
                         is ;

78 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL RELATIONS

V.--ON THE MOEPHOLOGICAL RELATIONS OF
    THE NERVOUS SYSTEM IN THE ANNULOSE
    AND VERTEBRATE TYPES OF ORGANISATION*

The term annulose is employed provisionally, and in a
morphological sense, as including all animals possessing a
ganglionic nervous collar and axis, and presenting, at the
same time, more or less distinct indications of a segmented
structure of body.

     Physiologists appear generally inclined to consider the
central portions of the annulose and vertebrate nervous sys
tems as modified forms of the same arrangement. These
forms are held to possess a general similarity of structure,
and correspondence in function ; and the ganglionic collar
and axis of the annulose are assumed to be homologous either
with the cerebro-spinal axis, or with the series of ganglions
on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, or with the system
of sympathetic ganglions of the vertebrate animal.

   IIn my own examination of this subject have been

strongly impressed with the necessity of determining the
morphological character of the oesophageal collar, and the op
posite positions of the so-called brain and abdominal gan
glionic cord, before any satisfactory advance could be made
in ascertaining the relations of the two forms of nervous
system. The apparent morphological difference between

     * This and the two following papers were read to Section D at the Chel
tenham Meeting of the British Association, Aug. 5-12, 1856, and were pub
lished in abstract in the Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, Jan. 1857. -- Eds.

OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.                      79

them does not appear, in the estimation of physiologists

generally, to present that obstacle to a satisfactory com
parison which its essentially fundamental character would lead

us to expect. The difficulty has, however, been clearly stated
by Professor Owen, who, in discussing the relations of the endo-
and exo-skeletons in his Lectures on Fishes, page 21, ed. 1846,

says-- " Geoffroy St. Hilaire thought it needed but to reverse
the position of the crustacean -- to turn what had been
wrongly deemed the belly upwards -- in order to demonstrate

the unity of organisation between the articulate and ver
tebrate animal. But the position of the brain is thereby
reversed, and the alimentary canal still intervenes in

the invertebrate between the aortic trunk and the neural

canal."

   I Imust here premise, that while hold the general mor

phological relations of the annulose and vertebrate ner
Ivous systems to be identical.
                                do not consider these two

types of organisation to be mutually reducible. On the con

trary, they are fundamentally distinct, presenting differences

which demand careful consideration. It
a                                           nevertheless,

    ;incumbent on the morphologist to ascertain in what re
             ;
spects they correspond, so as to determine their distinctive
                          alimits.
                           is

                  I
                                      is,

                                                                     ;
                                                                                             ;
My earlier conception of the morphology of the annulose

nervous system was based on that of Carus.  conceived that

each segment of the annulose animal contains potentially an

annular nervous arrangement, set in plane at right angles

to the axis of the segment, or longitudinal axis of the animal

that the only complete nervous ring         that one through

which the oesophagus passes that the ganglions on this ring

are arranged in the various forms of superior, lateral, and in

ferior oesophageal masses that the nervous rings in the post-
cephalic segments are all incomplete above, and have their

ganglions united into single or double mass below and

 80 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL RELATIONS

 that all the rings are united by a series of longitudinal abdo
 minal commissures. According to this view, the oesophageal
 collar, with its superior, lateral, and inferior ganglions, is
homologous with each pair of segmental nerves, and the cor
 responding abdominal ganglionic centre; the oesophageal
collar being in a plane parallel to those in which the post-
cephalic ganglions and their pairs of nerves are situated, but
at right angles to the line of the series of abdominal gan

glions.

    I Ifirst recognised what believe to be the real morpho

logical relations of the annulose nervous system during the
delivery of a course of lectures on Invertebrate Anatomy in
1849 ; but more fully and completely during courses on the
Anatomy of the Mollusca in 1850, and on the Anatomy of
the Crustacea in 1851.

   I now perceived that the fundamental difference between

the morphological relations of the annulose and vertebrate
nervous systems, consists in the position of the mouth.

   I saw that the entire axis or cftitral portion of the nervous

system extends along the neural aspect of the body in both
types of organisation ; but that while, as is well known --
although its morphological importance does not appear to

have been perceived --the vertebrate mouth opens into the

haemal, the annulose mouth passes through the neural aspect
of the body.

     In the annulose animal, therefore, the buccal entrance
interferes with the nervous axis --passing up between the two
lateral halves of one of its longitudinal commissural or inter-

ganglionic cords, so as morphologically to divide the con
tinuous axis into a prestomal and a post-stomal portion.

     These relations are most satisfactorily seen in the crus
tacea, in which the so-called brain, or supra-cesophageal gan
glion or nervous mass, is actually in front of the mouth,
and not above it.

OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.  81

    In insects, annelids, and mollusca, the bulk of the buccal

mass, and other necessary modifications of the oral apparatus,

elevate the so-called brain, curving upwards the morpho
logical axis of the body of the animal.

     By comparing the indications of segments in front of the
mouth, and their corresponding diverging appendages, with
the arrangement and distribution of the nerves given off from
the so-called brain, it appears very evident that this brain is
the aggregate of the segmental nervous centres in front of the

mouth.

    In like manner indications afforded by the segments, and

their appendages immediately behind the mouth, enable us to

determine whether the so-called sub-cesophageal ganglionic
mass is a single segmental ganglion, or an aggregate of antero-

posteriorly united segmental ganglions.

   IIn this way was enabled to perceive that the axis of the

nervous system of the annulose animal does not consist of a
supra-cesophageal mass, of an oesophageal collar, of a sub-

cesophageal mass, and a continuous sub-intestinal ganglionic
chain ; but of a continuous line of connected and serially
homologous ganglions situated in the mesial line of the

neural aspect of the body.
     The annulose, like the vertebrate animal, is developed

with its nervous axis turned away from, and its haemal axis

applied against, the vitellary mass.*

     * From the passage in his lectures already quoted, Professor Owen would
appear to consider the dorsal heart, with its anterior and posterior arterial
trunks in the decapod crustacean, and consequently the dorsal vessel in the
insect, arachnidan, and annelid, as corresponding to the thoracic, abdominal,
and caudal aortic trunk of the vertebrate animal. On this supposition only
can we understand his assertion, that when the so-called belly of the crus
tacean is turned upwards, its alimentary canal is still interposed between the
aortic trunk and the neural canal. Embryology, comparative anatomy, and
physiology, appear to me, however, to afford ample proof that the cardiac-
arterial dorsal trunk of the annelid, crustacean, insect, or arachnidan, is ho

mologous, not with the sub-spinal aorta of the vertebrate, but with the pri

82 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL RELATIONS

But, in the course of development, the mouth of the ver

tebrate opens through the surface applied against the vitellary

mass, whilst that of the annulose animal passes through the

aspect turned away from it. The vertebrate mouth is haemaL

the annulose mouth neural.

Eathke formerly described the pituitary body as origi

nating in a diverticulum passing up from the pharyngeal

mucous membrane through the basis of the embryo skull.

I at one time conceived it to be probable that the pituitary

body, and the mucous tube, in which, according to Eathke,
it originates, might be indications in the vertebrate of a

structure which, in the annulose animal, is converted into

the mouth. This presumed neural alimentary passage may
be conceived as passing up between the bodies of the anterior

and posterior sphenoid bones into the Sella Turcica, along the
course of the infundibulum to the third ventricle of the brain,

and through the cavity of that organ to its upper surface

behind the cerebellum, thus leaving the origins of the nerves

of smell and vision in the pre-stomal portion of the organ,
while the origin of the nerve of hearing would remain in the

medulla oblongata or post-stomal portion of the cephalic
nervous mass. The arterial circle of Willis, and other pecu

liar arrangements at the base of the skull and brain, appeared
Ito support the view taken.
                                    shall not, however, pursue this

hypothesis further, because, from the observations of Eeichert,

we know that the base of the cranium is not perforated in the

embryo, and that the supposed canal or diverticulum was an

incorrect interpretation of the peculiar appearances pro

mordial cardiac-arterial tube in all the forms of the embryo vertebrate, and,

Ifconsequently, with the heart and trunk of the branchial artery of the fish.
                                    of the " aortic trunk  " of the crustacean,
this, then, is the real  homology   a prc-stomal portion   of its nervous axis,  and
                         fact only                                               the
if its " brain " is in

French anatomist was quite correct in his general morphological statement,

although he was not legitimately entitled at the time to employ the illus

tration.

OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.                                   83

duced by the curvature downwards of the early Mammalian

head.*

   If I have determined aright the morphological relations of

these two forms of nervous system, we shall have advanced a

step in our conceptions of the anatomico-physiological re

lations of the annulose and vertebrate animals, and this

without losing sight of the fundamental differences, develop

mental and structural. between them. The researches of

Milne-Edwards, and of Newport and others, on the annulose

nervous axis may thus be physiologically associated with

those of Wagner, Schroeder Van der Kolk, Owsjannikow,

Jacobowitsch, and Kupffer, on the cerebrc-spinal axis ; and

we may now legitimately employ the annulose animal in the

morphological investigation of the vertebrate skeleton.

Omitting, for the present, the consideration of the mode

in which the nervous systems in the Tunicata, Eotifera, and

IEntozoa, are reducible to the typical annulose form, pro

ceed to make some general morphological statements, based

to a certain extent on the principle indicated in this, and
introductory to the two following communications :--

1. The morphology of any one organic system in the

annulose or vertebrate animal, cannot be safely or satis

factorily investigated, without constant reference to the

others. That it must be so is evident from the fact, that all

the organic systems are dependent on one another, in the

constitution of the organism.      inquiry demands constant

    2. All sound morphological

reference to the series of embryo, as well as of adult forms.
     3. As morphology deals with forms and relations of posi

tion, it demands a careful selection of terms, and a methodised

    * I have introduced the hypothesis of a vertebrate neural mouth (cast aside
in the course of my examination of the subject), because I believe it will be

found to involve relations of importance in the anatomico-physiological in

vestigation of the pre-stomal and post-stomal portions of the vertebrate and

annulose cephalic nervous masses.

84 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL RELATIONS

nomenclature. All terms involving more or less than their

morphological application demands, must be avoided. Terms
derived from other departments of the science, and having
therefore an established technical meaning, have invariably
produced misconception, when transferred for morphological

purposes.
      Influenced by these considerations, and satisfied that the

annulose and vertebrate types of organisation, although
fundamentally distinct, present parallel forms of structure,
and must consequently be closely linked together in morpho

Ilogical inquiry, have to suggest a more extended and pre

cise system of nomenclature for this department of the

science.

     In the annulose and vertebrate types of organisation, the
body of the animal consists of a linear series of segments. To

Ithe constituent segment, with its diverging appendages,

apply the term somatome (<t2i/ia, ripm).
      For the purpose of avoiding circumlocution, and of sup

plying a term for a generalised conception, and thereby facili
tating morphological description, without encroaching on

Izoological nomenclature, denominate a segmented animal,

whether annulose or vertebrate, an entomosome --an entomo-

somatous animal (hro/io;, eoi.u.a).
     As the constituent somatomes are invariably arranged in

groups, in each of which they are more or less modified in

Iform, or fused together, find syssomatome (oui, au/j-a, rifwu) a

convenient designation for such a group. A typical crusta

cean presents a cephalic, a thoracic, and a caudal syssoma

tome, in each of which there are seven somatomes--twenty-

one in all.
     The constituent somatomes lie in planes at right angles to

the morplwlogical axis of the body, and are symmetrical in the
transverse, but unsymmetrical in the perpendicular direction.
They are, however, not only unsymmetrical in their upper

                OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.  85

and under surfaces, but the surfaces so named in the annu-

lose are morphologically distinct from those similarly desig
nated in the vertebrate animal. The annulose animal moves

on the surface which was turned away from the vitellary mass

during development ; the vertebrate animal moves on the

surface which was applied to it during development. As the

axis of the nervous system is formed at the surface turned

away from the vitellary mass, and the axis of the vascular

system is formed at the surface applied to it in both types of
Iorganisation,
                employ, as morphological designations, the

term neuropod ("Dgov, vots) for an annulose, and haeinapod

(aJ/ia, toD;) for a vertebrate animal.

The mouth of the entomosomatous animal is invariably

situated between two somatomes, so that a certain number

of somatomes are interposed between it and the anterior
termination of the body. As the mouth is only one of a

Inumber of openings situated between somatomes, find such

openings conveniently distinguished as meiasomatomic.
     The mouth of the neuropod is a neural, that of the haema-

pod a haemal metasomatomic opening.

    As the somatome exhibits in its structure corresponding

Isegments of certain or of all the organic systems, have found

the following morphological terms extremely convenient in

referring from the segment of one organic system to the cor

responding segments of the others.

     For the entire framework of an entomosome, whether this

framework be developed in its integument or in its interior--
whether it be fibrous, cartilaginous, or osseous -- 1 employ the

term sclerome (axXrigh;, with the termination of completeness).

ITo a segment of the sclerome apply the designation sclero

Itome («^ijgis, ri/im). An aggregate of more or less modified
sclerotomes  name a syssclerotome (VOv). Making use of my

former illustration, the sclerome of a typical crustacean con

sists of twenty-one sclerotomes grouped in three syssclerotomes.

86 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL RELATIONS

Again, the sclerome of a mammal consists of a number of

sclerotomes, grouped into the cephalic, cervical, thoracic, lum

bar, sacral, and caudal syssclerotomes.

   IFor the muscular system employ the terms myome, myo

tome, symmyotome ; for the nervous system, neurome, neuro
tome, synneurotome ; for the vascular system, hcemome, hcema-
tome, synhcematome ; for the morphologically as well as physio
logically important digestive system, with its segments, and

groups of segments, peptome, peptatome, and synpeptatome, etc.

   ITill very lately, had not met with any indication of the

actual morphological character of the so-called supra-ceso-

Iphageal ganglion in the works of British or foreign physiolo
gists.  have now found, in an obscure corner of Von Baer's

works, sufficient evidence that he had recognised its pre-stomal

character. His statements are contained in a single paragraph,

which forms an episode in the middle of the second corollary
of the fifth scholium of his work on the development of the
chick in oyo. Von Baer holds, with E. H. Weber and Trevi-

ranus, that the nervous axis of the neuropod is homologous

with the series of ganglions on the posterior roots of the
spinal nerves of the haemapod ; and he considers the " supra-

cesophageal" ganglion to be the homologue of the Gasserian
ganglion ; but he adds, " Peculiar stress is laid on this, that
it (the supra-cesophageal ganglion) lies above (uber) the
mouth. This appears to me to be a false view of the matter ;

it lies, in fact, in front of (vor) the mouth." He gives a
diagram of the arrangement, and proceeds : " The following
sketch will make it evident that the so-called brain of the

insect has the same signification as the posterior ganghons ;

and the oesophageal ring is only a secondary formation,

dependent on the breaking through of the mouth, permitted
by the symmetry of the structure, and the necessary con

nection of the ganglions."

    It is somewhat remarkable that no one even of Von

OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.                                    87

IBaer's own countrymen, has, so far as know, made any

allusion to this passage. Indeed, he does not appear to have
been himself aware of the value of the observation, as he
adduces it merely in the form of an argument in illustration
of another subject, and does not again recur to it. For my

own part, having ascertained, on independent grounds, and
publicly taught and illustrated for some years, the principle

Istated in this communication, feel gratified in having this

opportunity of rescuing from temporary oblivion, and of
adducing in support of my own statement of the principle, the
original announcement of made twenty-eight years ago, by
one of the most philosophic of modern anatomists.*
4, I
                                                       a
                                       it,
     * accidentally discovered, few weeks ago, that Frofessor Huxley had
published translations of portions of Von Baer's works in the Scientific Memoirs
for 1853. This judicious selection contains the passage referred to in my paper.

(Dec 1856.)

88 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

                     VI.

ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF THE
       SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.

In an abstract which professes to give only the general
Iresults of my own investigations,
                                    cannot enter into such

critico-historical details as would be necessary were the

corresponding or opposite results obtained by other inquirers
Ito be in every instance brought forward.
                                           am therefore

obliged at present to state, in a somewhat dogmatic form,

I Ithe results which conceive have obtained, and the views
I have been induced to take of a subject in itself extensive

and difficult, and one to which so many distinguished anato

mists have devoted themselves.

    Nature of the Subject. --The framework of the vertebrate
head is a syssclerotome -- that is, a group of sclerotomes

variously modified, and more or less connected, so as to form

a distinct whole. The points to be determined are the number

and modifications of the sclerotomes in the various forms of

vertebrate head. There are, however, some preliminary

questions which must be briefly examined.
     The Source and Mode of Origin of the Sclerome in the Ver

tebrate Embryo. --The knowledge we at present possess of the

source and mode of origin of the vertebrate sclerome is the

result of the successive researches more particularly of Pander,

Von Baer, Rathke, Reichert, and Remak, on the development

of the blastoderma.

Von Baer, while he adopted the doctrine of Pander re

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  89

garding the so-called " serous " and " mucous layers," took a
somewhat modified view of the " vascular layer," and directed
attention more particularly to the " dorsal " and " ventral
folds " of the blastoderma, in connection with the " corda

dorsalis," as fundamental embryological characteristics of the

vertebrate type of organisation.

     Among the numerous results of the researches made by
Rathke in every department of embryology, there are two
which bear particularly on the present subject. These are
his early discovery of the so-called branchial clefts ; and his
later recognition of the fact that the series of quadrilateral
bodies on each side of the " corda dorsalis," instead of being
the rudiments of vertebrae, contain potentially the germs not
only of these bones, but of the dorsal muscles, and " probably"
of spinal nerves.

     Eeichert supplemented the previous observations of Eathke
on the development of the " branchial " or " visceral laminae,"

and of the nasal and maxillary portions of the face.
     Finally, Eemak has ascertained, on independent grounds,

that each pair of the dorsal quadrilateral bodies, usually con
sidered as the rudiments of vertebrae, becomes developed
superiorly into a right and left muscular plate, and inferiorly
into a pair of spinal nerves, with their ganglions, along with
the rudiments of a vertebra and pair of ribs, the nerves

being in front of the sclerous elements. In the course of

development a change takes place in this " primordial ver
tebral system." The rudiments of the vertebral arch and

ribs move backwards, from their original site under the
posterior margins of the overlying muscular plates, to the
anterior margins of the pair of muscular plates immediately

behind, and become united to both pairs. A transverse divi

sion takes place at the same time in the rudimentary central
masses of each of the primordial vertebrae. These changes
constitute a new order of parts -- the order or arrangement of

90 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

the " permanent vertebral system." Thus, the products of the

development of a single primordial vertebra are -- 1. A pair

of spinal nerves, with their ganglions ; 2. The vertebral arch
and pair of ribs immediately behind this pair of nerves ; 3.
The anterior part of the body of the vertebra to which this

arch and ribs are attached ; 4 The intervertebral disk in
front of it ; 5. The posterior part of the body of the vertebra

in front ; and, 6. The group of spinal muscles between these
two vertebrae. The bones, muscles, and nerves of the abdo
minal and thoracic wall are formed by an extension down
wards, and adhesion of the lower or costal portion of the
" primordial vertebral system " to the inner surface of the
external of the two layers into which the " primary abdominal
wall " divides. This outer or adherent layer of the " primary
abdominal wall" becomes the areolar layer of the integument,
and enters into the formation of the limbs. The inner layer,
separated from the outer by the pleuro-peritoneal space, forms,
with its fellow of the opposite side, the Wolffian bodies, re

productive glands, spleen, permanent aorta, mesentery, and
the muscular and serous covering of the alimentary tuba

     From these remarkable observations of Eemak, it would
appear that the sclerome of the haemapod, from the anterior
part of the neck backwards, originates as a series of in
dependent sclerotomes, and that, contemporaneously with

each sclerotome, a corresponding myotome and neurotome
take their rise in a common primordial segment of blastema.

     The cephalic portion of the early vertebrate embryo is
peculiar, more particularly, according to Eemak, in the non
appearance of distinct " primordial vertebrae, " and of the
subsequent changes which result from their development.
The great divisions of the brain and of the cerebral nerves
indicate, indeed, the segmented character of the entire struc

Iture, but am inclined to believe that, in the present state of

the subject, these indications are not to be depended on for

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  91

the determination of the segments of the embryo or adult

head. It appears to me that the segmented structure of the
brain is to be looked for, not in its greater masses --those

developments on its upper surface in which it differs from
the spinal cord, and by the possession of which it becomes a
brain -- but in the series of groups of ganglion-cells, the

nervous centres of the cerebral nerves, whatever the typical

number of these may be, arranged along its base, and strictly
homologous with the groups of ganglion-cells which un
doubtedly constitute the morphological segments of the

spinal cord.
     The " visceral " or " branchial laminae " afford, in the pre

sent state of the subject, a more secure embryological basis
for the determination of the segments of the head. The so-
called " first visceral lamina," the one in which the mandi
bular arch is developed, and the two succeeding " visceral
laminae," those in which the anterior and posterior segments
of the hyoid of mammals and birds are formed, must be looked

upon as embryological indications of three cephalic segments.
      On the under-surface of the forepart of the embryo head,

in front of the so-called " first visceral lamina," there are five

processes, in which are developed the palate and pterygoid,
the maxillary, malar, and lachrymal, the intermaxillary and
nasal bones. The first of these processes on each side extends
obliquely forwards from the " first visceral lamina " towards

and under the eye. It is the so-called " superior maxillary

lobe." The second process on each side--the " lateral frontal
process" of Eeichert -- passes down in front of the eye, the
 eye being situated in the cleft between it and the former
 process. The fifth process is situated in front, and in the

median line. It is the " anterior frontal process " of Eeichert.

 The clefts or notches between this process and the "lateral
 frontal process " are considered by Eathke and Eeichert to be

 the external nostrils.

92 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL, CONSTITUTION OF

Now, in regard to the so-called "superior maxillary lobes,"

it is clearly established that the palate and pterygoid bones
are formed in them, but there is no sufficient evidence that

they contain the germs of the superior maxillary bones. No

traces of the superior maxillary bones appear until these so-
called " superior maxillary lobes" have extended forwards, and

united with the "lateral frontal processes" and the "nasal

process," and until the maxillary margin has become con
Isiderably extended.
                      am, therefore, of opinion that the

"lateral frontal processes" of Reichert are, in fact, the real

maxillary lobes, and contain not only the germs of the

lachrymal, but those also of the maxillary and malar bones.
This view of the place of origin of the superior maxillary is
in accordance with the adult relations of these bones. The

position of the superior maxillary is in front of the eye ; the
orbit being, in fact, an expanded cleft between it and the

palate bone.
     Again, the nasal bones of the mammal are formed in the

upper part, and the intermaxillary bones in the lateral angles
and palatal lobes of the " anterior frontal process." The notch
or cleft on each side of this process cannot therefore become

the external nostrils, for these are not situated in the mammal

behind the intermaxillary bones, but in front of them. From

Ithese circumstances, am inclined to consider the external

nostrils of the mammal to be formed by the transverse union of
the palatal lobes of the " anterior frontal process," and by the
formation of the cartilages of the external nose in the mesial
portion of the free margin of that .process.

      Embryologists generally consider the so-called superior
maxillary lobes to be the upper portions of the " first visceral

laminae" bent forward, and the "lateral" and "anterior

frontal processes" to be superadded structures in no way

related to the " visceral" or "branchial laminre.-' It appears

to me, however, that the general aspect, the relations, and the

           THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.        93

changes undergone by them in development, prove these
parts to be serially homologous with the " visceral laminae,"

and to be, like them, indications of the segmented structure of
the head in front of the so-called first visceral arch. The so-

called superior maxillary lobes indicate a segment of which
the palate and pterygoid bones are elements. The " lateral

frontal" indicate a second segment, containing the maxillary,

malar, and lachrymal bones. The external margins and angles
of the "anterior or frontal processes" indicate an inter

maxillary segment ; and the development of the mesial part

of the same process into the cartilages of the nose indicates a

segment probably only fully developed in the mammalian

head.

    In addition, therefore, to the "visceral laminae" behind

that one in which the mandibular arch is formed, there would

appear to be a series of less developed "visceral laminae" in

front of all of which, in addition to other structures, give
           a it,
               it

                                                   a

                                                                                  ;

                                                             is

                                                       if

                                                                                            a
                                                                                                           a
rise to haemal arches of the sclerome, and indicate number

of corresponding sclerotomes.
     Of the Primary or Fibrous Sclerome. --The bones and

cartilages to which, from their palpable character, the atten

tion of anatomists has been hitherto chiefly directed, are parts

only of the vertebrate sclerome. They are imbedded in

continuous fibrous matrix, which, variously modified, binds

them together, and co-operates in their general economy and

functions. This matrix forms more extensive, and, in some

respects,  more important element of the sclerome in . the

lower than in the higher vertebrata and viewed in the

former in connection with its early stages of development in

the embryo, will be found to be arranged on the plan of the

"primordial vertebral system." It  most satisfactorily

studied in the fish, and particularly in those forms in which

the bones and cartilages are feebly developed. The fibrous ele
ment of the sclerome forms the sheath of the " corda dorsalis"

94 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

in the lancelet, and envelopes the column formed by the

bodies of the vertebrae in other fishes. It then bounds the

neural and haemal cavities, and from these cavities passes in

the mesial plane above and below to the neural and haemal
margins of the body. Corresponding cartilaginous and osseous
parts are imbedded in these fibrous neural and haemal laminae.
From the right and left sides of this deep or central system of
fibrous laminae, other laminae extend outwards between the

myotomes, and are connected to the deep fibrous layer of the
integument. The bones usually distinguished as " additional
ribs," "upper ribs," "epipleural spines," "diverging appendages,"
are imbedded in these metamyotomic laminae ; and as the class
of radiating bones to which these so-called additional ribs be

long maybe convenientlydistinguishedasactinapophyses(axr/'s-

I7Vos), apply the term actinal to the metamyotomic fibrous

laminae of the sclerome. As those dermal bones or plates which,
from their histological as well as their teleological characters,
certainly constitute elements of the sclerome, are formed in
the layer of the integument to which the actinal sclerous
laminae are attached, this integumentary fibrous structure

must be considered as constituting a dermal sclerous lamina,
and so completing the fibrous portion of the sclerome.

     The sclerome thus consists fundamentally of a fibrous
structure, which surrounds the " corda dorsalis," bounds the

neural and haemal cavities, forms a mesial septum above and
below, separates the myotomes from one another, and, under
the integument, envelopes the deeper parts.

     The Development of Cartilaginous and Bony Elements in
the Fibrous Sclerome. --The immediate development of certain
bones from or in a fibrous matrix, and of others in cartilage
previously formed in has given rise, among other questions,
to one as to whether the former are to be included in the
vertebrate system of bones. Now, while admit the import
ance of the embryological and histological facts which the
it,

                 I

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                                 95

Idiscussion of this question has afforded, am inclined to think

that a histological bias has influenced both the views which
have been taken of it. Why certain bones originate in a
fibrous matrix, why others originate in cartilage which has
been previously formed in the same matrix, are questions of
undoubted importance, but which at the same time cannot
legitimately be put in opposition to the unity of the fully-de

veloped sclerome.

     Of the Cartilaginous and Bony Elements, and of the general
Morphological Constitution of the Sclerotome. -- A sclerotome
                                                          is
fundamentally,  a  segment of the fibrous sclerome, and the
                                                                  is,
series of fibrous sclerotomes indicated by the actinal laminae,               a is,
                   is
each of which, for reasons to be afterwards stated, ought pro
bably to be considered as potentially double --thatI
                                                             as con

sisting of two layers, one belonging to the sclerotome behind,
the other to the sclerotome in front.

The fully developed haamapod sclerotome                   therefore

fibrous structure, in which all the cartilaginous and osseous

parts are formed and imbedded. With regard to these carti

laginous or osseous elements, shall at present only direct

attention to certain points which bear on the constitution of

the sclerotomes of the head. In doing so, must bear testi
                       I

mony to the general applicability and convenience of the

terms employed by Professor Owen to designate the elements

of his typical vertebra, venturing to suggest modifications in

their application only where am compelled to differ from

him in regard to the relations of the elements themselves.
     The term " centrum " highly useful as designation for

the cartilaginous or osseous mass formed around the " corda

dorsalis," whatever the constitution of that mass may be.

     The neurapophyses or hard parts developed in the lateral
neural laminae are " typically " two at least on each side. Not
                   is

                     I

                                                       a

only are there two on each side in the trunk sclerotomes of

certain cartilaginous and probably osseous fishes but there
                                                          ;

96 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

are two on each side in certain cephalic sclerotomes in at least

fishes and reptiles. Professor Owen admits one neurapophysis

only on each side of his typical vertebra. He accounts for the

additional pair in the spine of the sturgeon on the principle

of "vegetative repetition," while the additional elements in

the neural arches of certain cephalic vertebrae he at one time

considered as parapophyseal. and latterly as diapophyseal
elements. But it appears to me that the principle of " vegeta
tive repetition " is out of place in a morphological question ;

and a parapophysis cannot, according to Professor Owen's

archetype, be intercalated between a neurapophysis and a

neural spine, nor can a diapophysis become an independent

element.
     The superior or posterior spinous process, " neural spine,"

or (as a more convenient general designation) metaneurapo-

physis, is developed in the mesial neural fibrous lamina. As

this element is situated in the mesial plane, it is potentially

double, and its right and left halves become depressed and
more or less flattened out in the cephalic sclerotomes. With

the neurapophysis it completes the neural arch.

The cartilaginous or osseous elements developed in the

lateral and mesial haemal laminae of the fibrous sclerotome

constitute the haemal arch. The fundamental character of the
Iinferior or haemal arch, as understand
a it                                                                     consists in this,
    is

                    if

                             it
                                             it

                                                                    it,
that its constituent elements take their rise at or close to the

inner surface of those "ventral laminae" or "folds" in the

embryo, which form the lateral and inferior walls of the vis

ceral chamber. Every haemal arch, therefore, within the

antero-posterior range of the alimentary tube must, according

as more or less developed, necessarily inclose that tube

more or less completely. Accordingly, no arch within the

range of that tube,  excludes the tube, can be considered

as haemal arch, merely because incloses great blood-vessels.

Again, before any arch beyond the range of the alimentary

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  97

tube can be considered as a proper haemal arch, its development

must have been ascertained, or its relations to those muscular,

vascular, but more particularly nervous elements, which
constitute in their respective systems the arrangements cor
responding to the haemal arch in the sclerotome, must have

been determined.

    I must confess therefore my inability to discover the precise

view of the haemal arch taken by Professor Owen. Judging
from his diagram of the " ideal typical vertebra," and from his
general treatment of the subject, a chevron bone in the reptile
or mammal, or that portion of the cervical vertebra in certain
birds which completes the canal beneath the centrum, repre

sents the primary typical form of this arch. It would also

appear to follow from his doctrine that' the expanded form of
haemal arch, provided for the lodgment of the central organ of

circulation, and presented by the thoracic segments, is a
secondary formation --the result of the removal of the primary
haemal arch from its " typical " position under the centrum,

and its intercalation between the elongated pleurapophyses.
But this doctrine appears to me to involve embryological con
tradictions. The relations of these primary and secondary
forms of haemal arch in the neck and throat respectively are

not explained by it. The so-called haemal arch under the
cervical vertebra of the pelican is undoubtedly haemal in

function ; but as it excludes the eesophagus and trachea, it
cannot be the real or morphological haemal arch. In other
words, this so-called haemal arch cannot have been formed in

the " ventral folds " of the embryo neck.

     Again, it is difficult to conceive how the pleurapophyses
and haemal arch of Professor Owen's " ideal typical vertebra "
can be developed together in the " ventral folds " of the embryo.
For, according to the doctrine of Professor Owen, a pleurapo-
physis may, in different instances, present two sets of relations.
In the thorax it is attached by opposite ends to adjoining

                                                  H

98 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

sclerous elements, and lies in the wall of the haemal chamber.

In the neck and tail it is connected to its own vertebra at one

end only, and does not lie in the wall of the haemal chamber.

The mode in which the continuously-arranged elements of the

costal arch of a bird --the " pleurapophyses," " haemapophyses,"
and " haemal spine "-- are developed in the embryo is known.
But it is difficult to conceive how the detached and peculiarly-

arranged " pleurapophyses " and " haemal arch," as represented
in the " ideal typical vertebra," or exemplified in a proximal

caudal vertebra of a reptile or perenni-branchiate amphibian,

have assumed the positions they occupy, if they belong to the
same group of elements --that
                                          they all spring from or
                          it a
originate in the wall of the visceral chamber.
                              ?

                                   is,
                                      is is,

                                     it it if

                                            is
                                             it
                                                              a
Is the pleurapophysis fundamental or primary element

of the haemal arch In other words,        originally developed
             it
in the wall of the visceral cavity, and in certain instances
                  is ?
afterwards extruded from     or           merely secondary ele

ment in the haemal arch --that formed externally to, or away

a it,from and only intercalated into in certain vertebrae         1

     As rib, so far as its development has been traced in the
series, appears to be formed in the inner layer of the " ventral

fold and as             previously connected or continuous with
;"

the diapophyseal portion of the neurapophyses, its head and neck

being secondary formations, am inclined to consider the caudal
                          I

transverse processes in the mammal, lizard, and amphibian as
lying in the position of the original " ventral folds," and that,
therefore, the feebly-developed " pleurapophyses " of this region

are the only representatives of its haemal arches, while the

chevron-bones have no title to this morphological distinction.*

* In dissecting lately  large crocodile,  found that an aponeurotic
                        a

                                             I
                                                                              Aa
membrane extended outwards and curved downwards on each side from the

extremities of the caudal transverse processes. These aponeuroses met one

another in the mesial line below the tail, and were there joined by mesial

aponeurosis which extended down from between the chevron -bones.                  layer

of fat one-third of an inch in thickness lay on the outside of the lateral apo-

         THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.               99

     The processes which complete the canal under the posterior
cranial and anterior trunk centrums in certain fishes, and of

the cervical centrums in certain birds, are probably of the

same nature as the chevron-bones, which, according to Joh.
Miiller, appear to be developments of the inferior pair of con

stituent pieces of the centrum.

     We are entitled, then, to require that every part to which

the pleurapophyseal or haemapophyseal character is attributed,

should have been proved, by direct observation or otherwise,
to have been developed in the " ventral folds."

    It appears to me very doubtful whether there are suffi

cient grounds for limiting the number of morphological
elements in the haemal arch to one pair of " haemapophyses "
and a "haemal spine ;" or to a pair of " pleurapophyses," a
pair of " haemapophyses," and a "haemal spine;" while an
increase in the number of sclerous pieces is accounted for by
the principle of "vegetative repetition," or " teleologically."

IWhile admit the grouping of the elements of the more com

neuroses, and, embedded in it, the haemal divisions of the spinal nerves extended

outwards, downwards, and backwards, like a series of intercostal nerves. The

lateral muscular mass of the tail arranged in myotomes with metamyotomic

fibrous  laminae, nearly as distinct as in  the fish,  lay  on the outside of the layer
of fat.  Each of the lateral aponeurotic    cavities   was
                                                            occupied by the " femoro-
pironeo-coccygien " muscle of Cuvier, which arose from the under surfaces of

the transverse processes, the sides of the chevron bones and mesial aponeurosis,

and passed out of the cavity through a space left in its outer wall behind the

ischium to be inserted into the thigh-bone. The mesial membrane divided

above, its two laminae corresponding to the limbs of the chevron-bones, and

passing in front into the walls of the pelvis.

This arrangement appeared to me to indicate that the transverse processes,

the lateral aponeuroses, and the hajmal divisions of the spinal nerves, were in

the position of the proper haimal arches of the tail ; that the two aponeurotic

chambers constituted in fact, together, the abdominal or visceral cavity,

divided by the mesial lamina, and occupied by a pair of muscles, referable to

that group of muscles which in the trunk lie on the inner surface of the vis

ceral chamber, and that therefore the chevron-bones are not real haemal arches,

but subcentral developments.

100  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

Iplex haemal arches into an upper and a lower series, am

compelled on philosophical grounds to deny that the sub
division of a "pleurapophysis"'or of a " haemapophysis," is

beyond the range of morphological law ; or that morphology

and teleology are distinct in the sense that the latter principle

provides for what the former is insufficient. Morphology and

teleology are merely opposite, because, in the present phase of
science, necessary anthropomorphic aspects of the same Divine
principle evinced in the laws of organisation.

     Until, then, we know more than we do at present of the
laws which regulate the number of " centres of chondrification

and ossification," and until the constitution of the inferior

vertebral arches in the embryo and adult series has been more

Ifully analysed, cannot give my assent to the expression for a

haemal arch involved in Professor Owen's osteological doctrine.

   I must here allude to a point which does not appear to

have attracted that attention which it deserves. None of the

Ifhaemal arches of the head inclose the haemal axis.  we are

to consider the so-called median and lateral frontal with the

superior maxillary lobes as visceral laminae, then, as such,

they have no primordial relation with the haemal axis, which,

under the form of the cardiac-branchial tube, extends forward
as far only as the so-called " first visceral lamina." After the

haemal arches have been formed in "the first and other

visceral laminae," usually so called, of the head, the haemal

axis is found to be excluded from them. It is in consequence

of this remarkable developmental arrangement that the heart,

branchial artery, and its branches, in the fish and amphibia,

are situated below and external to the skeleton of the bran

chial apparatus.

     Before pointing out what appear to me to constitute cer

tain of the developmental conditions on which this peculiar

relation of the haemal arches of the head to the haemal axis

Iis dependent, must direct attention to another relation, in

       THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                    101

which the cephalic haemal arches are peculiar. The haemal

arches of the head are in immediate contact with the ali

mentary tube ; they are lined by the mucous membrane,

which is also in contact with their centrums. There in;

fact, no extension of the peritoneo-pleuropericardiac space intois
                                        is,
the head. The cephalic portion of the primary abdominal
                                                  a
wall (Kopfseitenplatte of Remak) becomes from the first

united to the corresponding portion of the cephalic primordial

vertebral system (Kopfurwirbelplatte) and the former, instead
of dividing into two layers -- one for the wall of the alimentary

tube, and another for the wall of the visceral cavity, with

serous space between them as in the trunk --becomes, in con

junction with the latter, perforated by the branchial clefts.

The haemal portion of the head, therefore, distinguished

from the corresponding portion of the trunk, in presenting

metasomatomic clefts, in having no serous cavity, and in hav

ing the haemal axis external to the haemal arches of its sclero

tomes. We are not yet in possession of sufficient data to

explain these various peculiarities of the head in the haema-

pod. must direct attention, however, to the following facts,
is
which bear upon the cephalic exclusion of the haemal axis.
    I
The anterior portion of the primordial alimentary tube, from

the cul-de-sac in which terminates in front, back to its
       it

                            is

                                                                  ;

                                                  a

                                                                              ;

                                                                        a
vitellary margin, consists essentially of two parts  cephalic

portion, terminated by the cul-de-sac, bounded laterally by
the " visceral laminae," from the so-called first pair of laminae

backwards, and becomes developed into the pharynx and

cervico-thoraco-abdominal portion, bounded laterally by the

anterior portion of the primordial vertebral system of the

trunk and the corresponding portions of the primary ventral

wall. The primordial haemal axis (heart and branchial artery)
   formed within the pericardiac space, on the inferior aspect

of the posterior or trunk portion of the tube from which are

afterwards developed the oesophagus, stomach, duodenum, liver,

102  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

pancreas, and lungs. The heart and pericardium are at first

comparatively large, project downwards, and only pass back

wards at a comparatively late period into the interior of the

haemal arches of the thoracic sclerotomes in reptiles, birds,

and mammals. The cephalic portion, or pharyngeal cul-de-

sac, on the other hand, does not present originally any traces

of the development of the haemome. This may be to a certain

extent explained by the great comparative development of the

cephalic portion of what would have been formerly considered
the " serous layer" of the blastoderma. The extremities of
the so-called " first visceral laminae" have in fact approached

one another below, before the apex of the cardiac tube has

advanced so far forwards as to communicate with them. The

precise conditions, however, which determine the formation of

the sclerous elements of the mandibular, hyoidean, and bran

chial arches on the inside of the corresponding vascular arches,

Iremain to be ascertained by future inquiry. At present can

only conceive of these conditions as in some way dependent

Iupon the developmental relations to which have alluded.

     These relations of the haemal arches of the head must be

taken into consideration in determining the signification of the

branchial arches of the amphibian and fish. The division of

the sclerous system into dermo, neuro, and splanchno skeleton
Iwas first systematically carried out by Cams.
                                                was early

brought, by the study of the works of the philosophical and

ingenious Dresden anatomist, to adopt this threefold division
Iof the skeleton.
                   have latterly, however, been induced to
Ireject as untenable the doctrine of a splanchno-skeleton.

believe it may be confidently asserted that no structure refer

able in any way to the skeleton is developed in or around any

portion of the mucous layer of the vertebrate alimentary tube

beyond that part of it which belongs to the head ; in other

words, beyond the pharynx, or part perforated by the bran

chial clefts. The mandibular, hyoidean, branchial, and pharyn

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.              103

geal arches, the cartilages of the larynx, trachea, bronchial

tubes, and lungs, are all primarily developed in immediate

relation to the cephalic portion of the alimentary tube.

    It is remarkable that those who refer the branchial and

pharyngeal arches to a splanchno-skeleton have not adduced

the external position of the haemal axis to these arches as an

argument in support of their opinion. On this ground, how

Iever, the hyoidean, and, believe, the mandibular arch also,

as internal to the first, or to the first and second aortic arches,

would be also thrown into the system of the splanchno-skeleton.

Carua has accordingly done so in the case of the hyoidean
arch ; but Professor Owen, overlooking the fundamental em-

bryological relations which indissolubly connect all these

arches as serially homologous, holds the hyoidean to be a
" strong, bony,
                 persistent  arch   of the  true  endo-skeleton    "

                                                                 ;

while, on grounds which appear to me altogether secondary,

he refers the branchial and pharyngeal to the splanchno-

skeleton, and thus relieves himself of the onus of determining

Itheir " homologies." From the view have been led to take
Iof this subject, am under the necessity of considering these

arches as true haemal arches, and as certainly referable to the
Iendo-skeleton as the mandibular arch itself.
                                                  also, for the

same reason, conceive that the complete morphology of the

skeleton of the head includes the homologies of the cartilages

of the larynx, trachea, and lungs.

     The cartilages and bones developed in the actinal fibrous

laminae are most important elements in the sclerome. In the

head they are variously modified and arranged, not only for

the protection of organs, but also as a system of props to afford

additional security to the fundamental parts of the skeleton.

In the trunk they are chiefly subservient to the myome. They

thus exhibit their highest development in the framework of

Ithe limbs, for the entire constitution of which they alone,

believe, supply the elements.

104  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

     The bony rays developed in the metamyotomic laminae of

fishes exhibit the most elementary forms of actinapophyses.

IHere again must differ from Professor Owen, who limits

the number of these " diverging appendages" to one --gene
rally attached to the pleurapophysis --on each side of the
vertebra. This " epipleural element" he considers to be a part

of the endo-skeleton, while the additional radiating bony fila
ments he refers to the exc-skeleton, and recognises in them a

manifestation of the principle of "vegetative repetition."

IWhile admit that the so-called "epipleural spines" are the

most constant of these bones, yet, as the others are developed

in the same fibrous membrane, which has, moreover, no primary

Irelation to the dermal system, cannot see on what grounds
Ithey can be excluded from the endo-skeleton. As, again,

cannot avail myself of the principle of " vegetative repetition"

Iin a morphological inquiry, and as find all of these " addi

tional ribs" connected with important modifications of the

Imyome, account for their presence teleologically, and hold,

therefore, that they must also be explicable morphologically.

     The question as to the typical number of actinapophyses

in a sclerotome cannot, it appears to me, be determined in the

present state of the science. Their existence and general

morphological relations having been ascertained, the conditions

which determine their position and number must remain for

future inquiry.

   IOn these grounds cannot, with Professor Owen, regard

the branchiostegal rays on each side collectively as a single
I" diverging appendage."
                          not only recognise on each side of

the hyoidean arch of the osseous fish one series, but a double

Iseries of actinapophyses. This double arrangement of the

branchiostegal rays has not, so far as know, been recorded.

One series of these rays is attached along the outer, and

therefore morphologically anterior surface, and the other along

the inner, and therefore posterior surface of the cerato-hyal ;

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  105

but as the two series are attached, the one to the upper, the

other to the lower part of the bone, they form together a single

Irange for the support of the branchiostegal fold.
         recognise a similar but more developed form of this

double arrangement of actinapophyses in the variously-modi

fied cartilaginous or semi-osseous double styles or plates which

are attached to the convexities of the branchial arches for the

support of the respiratory membrane of osseous fishes. These

branchial actinapophyses also exhibit that jointed or multi-

articulate structure so generally presented by the rays of the

mesial and bilateral fins.

   IThis leads me to observe that have not been able to

satisfy myself of the truth of the doctrine at present generally

held, that the inter-spinous bones and rays of the mesial fins
Ibelong to the dermo-skeleton.
                                admit that, in certain in

stances, these fins present more or less dermal bone in their

Icomposition ; but cannot see how fin-rays, from which the

skin and subcutaneous texture may be stripped, can be con

sidered as portions of the dermo-skeleton. These rays can

Iscarcely, conceive, be referred to the dermo-skeleton in the

cartilaginous fishes ; and as the rays of the bilateral fins re

semble those of the mesial in their histological as well as in

their general relations, they ought to be placed in the same

category. The rays of the mesial, as well as of the bilateral

fins cannot, therefore, in my opinion, be consistently excluded

from that portion of the sclerome usually denominated neuro-

or endo-skeleton ; but like other elements of the endo-skeleton

which approach the dermal sclerous fibrous lamina, they may

coalesce with dermal bone.

   I have been led to consider the inter-spinous bones and

mesial fin-rays as actinapophyseal elements. With reference

Ito the mesial position and characters of these bones, would

remark, that it appears to me to be quite permissible, on mor

phological grounds, to look upon each inter-spinous bone, with

106 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

its corresponding fin-ray, as consisting of a right and left
actinapophysis mesially united --that to consider the right
                                       is,I
and left halves of which they consist in the young fish as

fundamental elements of opposite sides of the body. This

view of the actinapophyseal character of the bones of the

mesial fins appears to be supported by the occurrence of double
anal and caudal fins in monstrous fishes, and also by the so-

called urohyal bone. The relations of this bone appear to me

to indicate that               not referable to the basohyal elements of
I
                                             recognise as con
                  it

                           is
the arch, but to the actinapophyseal.               it

sisting of two of these elements fused together at the mesial

plane.

am further supported in the view which take of the
                                             it
actinapophyseal character of the inter-spinous bones and mesialis

fin-rays, by the well-known and hitherto unexplained anteroI

posterior duplicity which they exhibit in certain fishes. In

the Pleuronectidae, for instance, the inter-spinous bones are

attached in pairs, one bone in front and another behind eachI
spinous process. In these instances conceive we have ex
amples of mesial anterior and posterior actinapophyses in each

sclerotome. The corresponding fin-rays are,  true, alternate,

but this does not affect the general principle, when we keep

in view the remarkable antero-posterior movements of certain

elements of the sclerome discovered by Eemak in the embryo,

and the highly-important observations of Professor Owen with

reference to the alternations of some of the elements of the
spine in certain reptiles and birds -- alternations undoubtedly

referable to movements of the kind discovered by Eemak.

    In the head actinapophyseal elements are generally bar

like, or more or less flattened from without inwards. From

the peculiar forms assumed by these elements in the head, an

anterior actinapophysis of one sclerotome may meet posteriora
one from the sclerotome in front, so as to form together bara
like or flattened bridge, or buttress, between the two. These

       THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.            107

bridge-like connections of neighbouring sclerotomes are not

unfrequently completed by the fibrous basis of the sclerome.

In birds, and the typical lacertians, indeed, in which the

actinapophyseal elements exhibit remarkable adaptations, the
fibrous matrix in which they are imbedded, and by which
they are connected, forms an essential feature of their arrange

ment.

     The actinapophyseal elements of a sclerotome are to be
distinguished as haemal and neural --those attached to the
haemal and those connected with the neural arches. The

haemactinapophyses are the most usual and numerous, and

Ihave hitherto been alone recognised as such by anatomists.

shall therefore at present only remark, in reference to the

Ineuractinapophyses, that consider as such the neural range

of " additional ribs," the interspinous bones and rays of the

dorsal fins, and of the neural half of the caudal fin in cartila

ginous fishes, and also the inter-neural cartilages, to which

attention was first directed by Joh. Miiller. In the cephalic

sclerotomes, the neuractinapophyses constitute the so-called

"sense capsules" and the system of "mu co-dermal bones."
The so-called " mucc-dermal bones" have been latterly referred
Iby the continental anatomists to the denno-skeleton.
                                                       am,

nevertheless, inclined to believe, that when the general mor

phological relations of these bones, and their existence in at
least reptiles and birds, are taken into consideration, they will
be admitted as elements of the endo-skeleton. They are not
the only bones in the head of the osseous fish which are tra

versed by mucous tubes ; but from their superficial position

they generally are so, and from the same circumstance are

frequently overlaid by dermal bone. Professor Owen has

adopted the doctrine of the muco-dermal character of these

bones, and includes the lachrymal among them. Believing

Ithe lachrymal to be a cephalic neuractinapophysis, cannot

assent to the rejection of this bone from the endo-skeleton,

108  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

and more particularly to referring the perforation which gener
ally characterises it to the system of dermal mucous canals.

The lachrymal canal is a metasomatomic opening. It is the

remaining portion of the cleft between the maxillary and

palatine visceral laminae. The lachrymal bone is situated at

the upper end of this cleft, at the extremity of that metasoma

tomic space in which the eyeball is situated --viz. the orbit.

The lachrymal bone is therefore grooved or perforated by an

integumentary canal, which, as a portion of one of the original

clefts in the wall of the face, is retained in the adult as a pas

sage for the secretion of the lachrymal gland.

The most important cephalic neuractinapophyses are those

fibrous, cartilaginous, or osseous structures which support and

protect the nose, eye, and ear. They exhibit their fundamen

tal character most distinctly in the cyclostomatous and

plagiostomatous fishes, in which they consist of sessile or

pedunculated cartilaginous cups or capsules attached to the

outer margins of the cranium. In the other vertebrata these
" sense-capsules," variously modified in form and texture, be
come more or less involved in the wall of the cranium. In

their fundamental form they must be considered as parts of

the endo-skeleton, homologous in the haemapod with those

parts of the dermo-skeleton of certain neuropods, such as the

crustacean, which carry the organs of sense, and are serially

homologous with its masticatory and ambulatory limbs.
      Professor Owen refers the " sense-capsules" to the

splanchno-skeleton. But the organs of hearing, vision, and

smelh are developed not from or in connection with the

mucous layer of the blastoderma, but from the so-called
" serous layer" --that
                        is,

                                                            ;

                                                                 it
                        from that superficial layer which pro

duces the skin, its appendages, the cerebro-spinal axis, and the

primordial vertebral system. It appears to me that would

have been more natural to refer the sense-capsules, as De

Blainville did, to the dermal system but their histological,

   THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                                                   109

Iembryological, and general relations, indicate, believe, their

real nature as parts of the neuro-skeleton.

The most complex and important development of the ac-

tinapophyseal elements of the sclerome are those arrange
ments which constitute the framework of the limbs. As,

Ihowever, find myself compelled to dissent from Professor

Owen's determination of the anterior pair of limbs as the
haemal arch and " divergent appendages* of the occipital ver

Itebra ; and as also dissent from his general doctrine of
Ilimbs, shall reserve my observations on the subject for a

separate communication.

The osseous formations in connection with the subintegu-

mentary fibrous lamina constitute collectively the dermal por
tion of the sclerome. As the constitution of the exo-skeleton

I Idoes not immediately bear on the object have in view,

shall merely observe, in reference to that more extended
is

  I

                                a
                                                          is

                                                              it,

                                                        is it

                                                                                   aa
and systematic investigation of its structure and morphology

at present very much to be desired.

From the statements already made, will be observed

that consider that the most general conception we can at

present reach of vertebra or sclerotome,                                               somewhat ex

panded or detailed form of Von Baer's ideal transverse section

of the vertebrate animal, which                 based on the original

neural and haemal foldings of the blastoderma from the sides

of the corda dorsalis. With reference to the further develop

ment of the idea, venture to express my decided opinion,
              aI
                      a
                                    is
                                           a
that formally to announce the archetypal number of elements

in segment of the skeleton                      premature attempt at gen
a

eralisation, and that dogmatic statement on subject of this
                                                it

                                                       a
kind must have greater tendency to check legitimate induc

tion the higher the authority from which emanates.

Tlie modifications which occur in the Sclerotomes towards or
              the Head. --It
at the front  of                                generally admitted, that in
                                            is

tracing backwards the series of sclerotomes in vertebrate
                                                                                       a

110  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

animal, they become modified in form in proportion to the

withdrawal of the other organic systems, until at last the

sclerotome may become a mere nodule or filament. Although

it is also generally admitted that a certain amount of deteriora

tion takes place in the sclerotome towards the anterior part of

the cranium, the nature and extent of the change has not
Ihitherto been precisely determined.
                                      find that it presents,

according as the nasal fossae are, or are not present, two forms.

    First general form of Deterioration. --The deterioration is

much less in the first form than in the second. The first form

may be best observed in the mammal, in which alone the

nasal cavities are complete. The nasal fossae of the mammal

are bounded below by a series of at least four haemal arches,

the palatine, maxillary, intermaxillary, and ali-nasal, which,

along with the soft parts, form collectively the palatal vault

of the mouth, with the upper lip and under surface of the ex

ternal nose ; these three continuous surfaces forming in fact

the anterior part of the sternal or haemal aspect of the head,

the palatal portion being inclosed within the mouth in con

sequence of the elongation of the lower jaw. If now the

sclerotome, of which the intermaxillary bones constitute the

haemal arch, be examined, it will be found to present supe

riorly the two nasal bones, as its neural elements ; but which,

instead of bounding, along with their corresponding centrum,

a neural space, assist the intermaxillary bones in forming two

spaces, which are completed, and at the same time separated

from one another by the centrum, which, no longer separating

a neural from a haemal space, separates a pair of lateral neuro-

haemal spaces, or nostrils, from one another. This modifica

tion of the sclerotome depends, primarily, on its not being

required to enclose a segment of the neural axis ; and, second
arily, on its co-operating in the formation of the nostrils.

This form of sclerotome, in which the centrum passes from

Iabove downwards, denominate catacentric, to distinguish it

   THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  Il1

from the ordinary form in which the centrum passes across,

Iwhich, therefore, also occasionally find it convenient to in

dicate as the diacentric form of sclerotome. The passage
from the diacentric to the catacentric form is exemplified in

the ethmoidal sclerotome, the haemal arch of which, consisting
of the pair of maxillary bones, enters into the formation of

the nasal passages. The centrum of this sclerotome has as

sumed the form of a more or less compressed plate, which,
while it retains its lateral connection with the neurapophyses,

extends at the same time more or less upwards into the

neural space, and downwards between the nostrils, which,

under this sclerotome and the one behind, consist of a mesially

bisected haemal cavity.

     The anterior terminal sclerotome in the non-proboscidian
mammals is cartilaginous and catacentric. Its neuro-haemal

chambers are closed in front by the junction of the anterior

margins of its neural and haemal elements. In consequence,

too, of the position of the external nostrils, which, as metaso-

matomic openings, are situated between the haemal elements

of this sclerotome and those of the sclerotome immediately

behind, its haemal elements are tilted forwards, so that towards

their junction with the neural elements their sternal margins

are continuous with the dorsal line of the nose. In the more

developed forms of this sclerotome, from one to three haemac-

tinapophyses on each side enter largely into its arrangements.

    In the proboscidian mammals, instead of being greatly

developed, as might naturally be expected, this sclerotome     is,

on the contrary, much simplified. In the tapir the haema-

pophyses have disappeared, while in the elephant the neura

pophyses alone exist in    comparatively undeveloped form.
   believe, however, that
I  is                       will ultimately be admitted, that
              a

                    it a
the proboscis not mere elongation or development of the
external nose, like the pseudo-proboscis of the bear, racoon,

and coati, but syssomatome.
   a

112 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

     Second general form of Deterioration of the Sclerotome at
the front of the Head. --The character of this form of deteriora
tion may be best observed in the intermaxillary or vomerine

sclerotome of the osseous fish. Instead of being reserved for
the purpose of forming portions of nostrils, the neural space

no longer required for the lodgment of a segment of the neural

axis disappears entirely, the neurapophyses being at the same

time generally absent. The centrum may also disappear, or

may exist in the form of a cartilaginous nodule ; a pair of

neurapophyses may therefore form the entire sclerotome.

These haemapophyses generally extend outwards and down

wards from one another, or from the centrum if it exists at

the mesial plane. They form together, therefore, an arch sus

pended at its centre, with its piers unsupported. The haema-

pophyses of the two sclerotomes immediately behind form re

spectively two arches, the maxillary and palatal, suspended
by their centres from the base of the skull. The centres of

these two arches are, however, morphologically their approxi

mated piers, the actual centres ; their sternal or haemal con
junctions are not completed in the osseous fish, in conse

quence of the non-formation of the nasal fossae. These three

incomplete haemal arches retain their embryonic form of im

perfect visceral laminae. They do not bridge across to form
a palate, and therefore the first complete haemal arch in the

osseous fish is the mandibular. The palate in it therefore,
                                      a
                                                     is,
like that of the mammal. morphologically portion of the ex
ternal surface of the animal; But they differ from one another

in this respect, that the palate of the fish  is     primary, that

                                                  aHead. --It has

of the mammal secondary surface.
        a
Number           Sclerotomes in the Vertebrate
          of

                a
tended not little to throw discredit on the vertebral theory

of the skull, that its advocates have differed much as to the

number of its constituent vertebrae.  am inclined to think
                                      I

                                                           a
that these discordant views are the result of tendency in

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.               113

later inquirers to be influenced by tbat & priori, or " transcen
dental " method, characteristic of those German and French

anatomists with whom the subject originated. For my own

part, so far from coinciding in the received opinion, that the

I Inumber of segments in the vertebrate head is the same in all
its forms, believe that it varies.  shall state in the sequel
Ithe grounds on which hold the number of sclerotomes to vary
Islightly in the heads of the ordinary forms of vertebrata.

am, however, inclined to believe that there are indications

afforded by embryology and comparative anatomy, of the exists

ence in certain forms of vertebrate head of a considerably greater

Inumber of sclerotomes than has been generally supposed.

base this conjecture, first, on the system of cartilaginous nasal

segments in the cyclostomes ; and, secondly, on the circum

stance that if the head is to be distinguished embryologically

from the trunk, by the presence of " visceral laminae " separ

ated by clefts, then not only the cyclostomes, but the still

more remarkable branchiostoma indicate a number of cephalic

segments, and a form of vertebrate structure, of which, in the
present state of the science, it can only be said that such a

form is deducible from the vertebrate type.

   I recognise in the head of the fish, exclusive of the cyclo

stomes, six sclerotomes ; in that of the amphibian and reptile
also six ; with the exception of the crocodiles, in which the
seventh is feebly developed ; in that of birds, six ; and in

that of mammals, exclusive of the proboscidians, seven.

   I find it more convenient to examine these sclerotomes
Ifrom before backwards ; and distinguish them provisionally

by the following designations :--

1. Rhinal.                   4. Pre-sphenoidal.
2. Vomerine.                  5. Post-sphenoidal.
3. Ethmoidal.                 6. Temporal.
               7. Occipital.

                              i

114  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

     Keeping out of view, therefore, the cyclostomatous fishes

and the proboscidian mammals, which present indications of

a greater number, the vertebrata generally possess all the

sclerotomes enumerated above, except the rhinal, which

exists only in mammals and crocodiles.

     On a Fundamental Difference between the Cranium of the
Mammal and that of the Bird, Reptile, Amphibian, and

Osseous Fish.-- In my earlier attempts to unravel the intri

Icacies of this subject, found myself opposed by difficulties

Iin passing from the mammalian to the lower form of cranium,
and vice versa.  afterwards discovered that this mainly de

pended on the reciprocal development and atrophy of the

meta-neurapophyseal elements of four sclerotomes in the two

forms. In consequence of this, we had been hitherto con

founding the frontal bone, or meta-neurapophysis of the eth

moidal sclerotome of the mammal, with the so-called "proper

frontal bone," which is in fact the meta-neurapophysis of the

pre-sphenoidal sclerotome of the bird, reptile, amphibian, and

osseous fish, an element of which there are, and this only in

rare instances, faint or doubtful traces in the former ; and

pari passu, we had been confounding the parietal bones, the

double meta-neurapophysis of the post-sphenoidal sclerotome

of the mammal, with the so-called parietals, the largely-de

veloped meta-neurapophyses of the temporal sclerotome of

the bird, reptile, amphibian, and osseous fish, elements which

are much reduced in size, and masked in the former. Among

other important organic relations indicated in the existence

Iof these two forms of cranium, would here more particularly

note their bearing on the encephalon. Of the two forms, that

of the fish, reptile, and bird, while it adheres to the common

type, is modified mainly in relation to the organs of smell,

sight, and hearing. That of the mammal, also adhering to

the common type, is modified in relation to the cerebrum
proper --to that nervous structure superimposed upon the

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  115

series of ganglionic masses at the base of the brain which are
serially homologous with the spinal cord.

    Ehdjal Sclerotome. --In Mammals. --The principal parts

of the cranium which remain unossified iD the mammal are
the nasal septum and the cartilages of the nose. Of these, the
unossified portion of the nasal septum is the anterior prolon
gation of the basal portion of the so-called " primordial

cranium." It is consequently a continuous mass of cartilage,

but is nevertheless referable to three sclerotomes ; its superior
portion completing the centrum of the ethmoidal ; its lower
portion the centrum of the vomerine ; and its anterior that
of the rhinal sclerotome.

     The rhinal sclerotome in the mammal is fibrous, cartila

ginous, and catacentric. Its centrum, formed by the anterior
portion of the nasal septum, extends from its neural to its
haemal margin. Its right and left neural elements are the so-
called superior or triangular cartilages of the nose. They
may be continuous with or merely attached to the neural edge
of their centrum. The anterior margins, or angles of these
cartilages, and the corresponding point of the septum or cen
trum is the absolute anterior termination of the animal, or
more precisely of its morphological axis. The ridge of the

nose downwards and forwards to that point is neural or dorsal ;
beyond although continued in the same line, the ridge

haemal or sternal.

     The two alar cartilages are the haemapophyses of this
sclerotome. Variously modified in form, they are more or less

firmly attached to the lower margins of the upper cartilages.

In front they are attached to the septum, to which also they

are more loosely connected round the tip of the nose, being

frequently folded in on the ridges of the septum. In the

fibrous membrane occupying the sides of the space between
the posterior margins of the alar cartilages which together
constitute the haemal arch of their sclerotome, and the ante
it,
                                                                                       is

116  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

rior margins of the intermaxillary bones which form the haemalis,
arch of the succeeding sclerotome, there are generally a numberis,
of variously modified cartilaginous pieces. These pieces are
teleologically highly important elements of the rhinal sclerois a
tome. Morphologically they are actinapophyses. When fully

developed, they are three on each side attached to the alar

cartilage. In the ox and other ruminants, the superior actina-
pophysis is an irregular lamina, which, imbedded in the fibrous
membrane, assists in supporting the wall of the nostril. The
second is a thick, short bar, articulated to the alar cartilage in
front, and jointed behind to the corresponding element of the
vomerine sclerotome, by which arrangement it is immediately
connected with the inferior turbinal bone, which is an actina-

pophyseal element of the ethmoidal sclerotome. The third or
inferior rhinal actinapophysis is a crutch-like cartilage, articu
lated to the alar element by its stem, which is bent inwards,
then downwards, and outwards to the margin of the nostril,

which it supports by its curved transverse portion. In the

bear, racoon, and coati, the two superior actinapophyses are
much developed, and, along with the neurapophyseal, form
the cartilaginous wall of the trunk-like nose, or pseudo-

proboscis. In the phacochoer the acuminated nasal bones

curve down toward the intermaxillary, so as to separate the
neural elements of the rhinal sclerotome from one another.

The rhinal centrum is therefore much diminished in extent ;
but at the same time, strengthened for the support of the
nasal buckler .by deposit of bone. The haemapophyseal and

actinapophyseal elements are thus pushed outwards, along
with the nostril, so as to produce that breadth for which the

snout of this pig remarkable. In man the rhinal actinapo
physes are reduced to the sesamoid cartilages. In the solipeds

they disappear altogether. The so-called semilunar cartilage
of the horse in fact, the alar cartilage itself, the internal
inferior angle of which, much elongated, supports the inner

          THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                                                                   117

margin of the nostril, as the transverse limb of the crutch-like

inferior actinapophysis of the ruminant supports the outer

margin of the orifice.

    The Rudimentary Rhinal Sclerotome in the Crocodiles. --In

the crocodiles, as in the mammalia, the vomerine sclerotome

is traversed by the nasal fossae, which open therefore in front,

instead of behind         as in the other reptiles and in birds. It
is
                               a

                               it,

                               if

                                                                                                              ;

                                         I
evident therefore, that the crocodiles do not possess, like

the mammalia,             rhinal sclerotome, their external nostrils

must present an exceptional arrangement for, instead of

being metasomatomic, they must be terminal.                                                                      find, how

ever, that in the alligator the hoods which extend from the

anterior inner margins and septum of the osseous external

nostrils consist of dense fibrous tissue, covered by the muscles

which act upon them. This double nbro-muscular hood so
                                                                                                                 is
arranged on each side as to have the oblique slit-like nostrils                                                       a

situated between their outer margins and the intermaxillary
Ifedges.
              plate of cartilage were developed in the margin
            a
of each hood, the whole arrangement would occupy the posiis
                       a
tion and- exhibit the relations of an ali-nasal cartilage --

rhinal haemapophysis, or neurapophysis, as in the elephant.

    Vomerine Sclerotome. --In Mammals. --In the mammal

the vomerine              perfect catacentric sclerotome. The nasal

bones are its neural elements, as they occasionally run together,

and are evidently, as has been generally admitted, serially

homologous with the frontals and parietals they must be
                             ;

viewed as metaneurapophyses, the neurapophyses being absent

in the absence of nervous centre. The intermaxillaries meet
                a

ing below form the haemal arch, and the centrum consists of

the vomer, with corresponding portion of the cartilaginous
                a

nasal septum.   is        bone peculiarly mammalian. It may be
     The vomer      a

said to make its appearance as developed element, along
                          a

with the completed nasal fossae. But its development in the

118  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

mammalian series is not only dependent on the nasal fossae,

but on the intermaxillaries, with which, as will be shown in

the sequel, it is invariably connected. Its passage backwards

  under the centrum of the ethmoidal sclerotome to abut against

                                    as will also appear, mamma
that of the pre-sphenoidal,a is              is
                 is,                                        a
lian peculiarity, and an instance of that antero-posterior elon
            I
gation and of that overlapping arrangement so frequent in the

  adaptation of the cephalic centrums to one another.

     When the inferior turbinal bone, an actinapophysis of the

  ethmoidal sclerotome, highly developed, as in the ruminants,

aa  strong flattened bar of fibro-cartilage  attached to the

  inner aspect of the ascending process of the intermaxillary,

  and widening out into soft curved cartilaginous plate, com

  pletes the fore part of the inferior turbinal, connecting            it  at

  the same time to the second actinapophysis or turbinal pro

  cess of the ali-nasal cartilage.  look upon this appendage as

    haemactinapophysis of the vomerine sclerotome and serially
                                                   ;

  homologous with the second or turbinal haemactinapophysis of

  the rhinal, and with the turbinal haemactinapophysis of the

  ethmoidal sclerotomes. These haemactinapophyses have all

  of them been enclosed within the nasal chamber during de

  velopment having passed in through the metasclerotomic
     ;
            ;

                                                                   is
  clefts, instead of forming parts of the nasal wall, or projecting

  from its outer aspect.                                               remarkable

      Vomerine Sclerotome in the Crocodiles. --It

  that the familiar fact of the peculiar position of the external

  nostrils of the crocodiles should not hitherto have attracted

  attention. They open in front of the intermaxillaries as in

  the mammals whereas, in the typical lacertians, and in the

  extinct plesiosaurs, ichthyosaurs, and pterodactyles, in the

  ophidians, amphibians, and birds, they open behind these

  bones. On this peculiarity in the crocodiles depends the very

  perfect development of the anterior part of the nasal septum.

  Along with the complete and pervious intermaxillary arch, we

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  119

find a complete although cartilaginous vomer. Of that part

of the extended nasal septum of the crocodiles, corresponding

to the mammalian nasal septum, the only ossified portion is

an elongated single or double slip along the lower edge of its

ethmoidal region, and continuous with the elongated pre-

sphenoidal centrum. Professor Owen considers this slip of
Ibone as the vomer.
                      will only observe at present that, hold

ing the vomer to be invariably in relation to the intermaxil-

Ilaries, can only conceive, as the vomer in the crocodile, that

elongated cartilaginous portion of the nasal septum which

extends beneath the elongated nasal bones to the intermaxil

lary suture.

     Vomerine Sclerotome in Typical Zacertians. --In the proper

lizards this sclerotome is imperforate. The intermaxillaries

not only close in at the palate, but in front also ; the more or

less elongated and combined ascending processes joining the

united or distinct nasal bones. The centrum is represented

by the anterior part of the cartilaginous septum. The two

bones, usually described as the double vomer of the lizard,

Ibelong, as shall endeavour to show in the sequel, to the suc

ceeding sclerotome -- the ethmoidal
     Vomerine Sclerotome in Birds. -- The vomerine sclerotome

of the bird consists principally of the intermaxillaries, but

partly of the persistent anterior portion of the primordial

cranium. The intermaxillaries speedily unite below and in

front, so as to form the first and principal part of the

beak. Their united ascending processes extend up to the
so-called " principal frontal bone," and separate completely

the so-called nasal bones. In the sequel the evidence will be

Iadduced on which found my belief that the bone called in

birds the " frontal," or " principal frontal," is not the frontal

of the mammal ; but that the two so-called nasal bones in the

bird are the two halves of that bone which in the mammals

Ifis called frontal.  so, where are the nasal bones of the bird ?

120 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

as the ascending processes of their intermaxillaries, which
occupy the proper position of the nasals, have not been ob
served as separate centres of ossification ; and as the greater
number of chelonian reptiles want these bones, and resemble
birds in the general character and horny covering of their

Ibeaks, am inclined to believe that the nasal bones are defi

cient as ossified elements in the bird. In young birds, aiter

boiling or maceration, the osseous elements of the beak may
be removed, and the anterior part of the primordial cranium

brought into view. In the fore part of its septum we again

recognise the vomerine centrum, but more or less deficient in

certain birds from the septal perforation peculiar to them.

The upper margin of the cartilaginous septum, where it is in
contact with the ascending processes of the intermaxillaries,
flattens out into a lamina, which partly roofs over the external
nostril on each side. These marginal processes of the cartila
ginous vomerine centrum extend down in front, so as to line
the fore and under part of the nasal fossae, projecting some
what behind the intermaxillary margin of the external nostril.
The broad projecting upper portion of the cartilaginous septum
occupies the position of the nasal bones, while the inferior
portions project from behind the intermaxillaries, like oper
cular actinapophyses. In the chick the part of the primor
dial cranium just described as belonging to the vomerine

sclerotome presents an opaque aspect and fibro-cartilaginous
structure, contrasting with the hyaline cartilage posterior to

it-- a peculiarity pointed out by Eeichert as characteristic of
certain portions of the primordial cranium. It will be ob

Iserved that do not consider the bone or bones usually called

"vomer" in the bird as correctly designated. In the sequel

I Ishall indicate the grounds on which hold these bones to

be the upper elements of the palatine arch.
     The Vomerine Sclerotome in Chelonian Reptiles. -- The inter

maxillaries in the chelonian, united below, complete the front

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                   121

of the palate, alveolar margin, and floor of the nasal fossae.

The only trace of ascending processes which they present is a

compressed spine, which projects upwards at their junction in

the median line of the nasal opening of the cranium. The

lateral margins of that opening are formed by the maxillaries

alone ; its upper margin by the so-called pre-frontals, except
in Hydromedusa and certain fossil forms. The cartilaginous
septum of the nasal fossae extends up from the intermaxillary

suture to that of the pre-frontals.

Is the cbelonian vomerine sclerotome modelled on that of

the crocodile, or of the bird ? The chelonian presents the first

stage in the remarkable development of the nasal passages
exhibited by the crocodiles. But the general deficiency of the

nasal bones, the indications of ascending processes of the

intermaxillaries in the mesial plane, the formation of the

posterior margins of the external nostrils by the maxillaries,

appear to me to show that in the construction of its vomerine

sclerotome, the chelonian diners from the crocodiles, and

resembles the typical lacertians, the ophidians, amphibians,

and the birds. The cartilaginous lining of its nasal fossae, a

remnant of its primordial cranium, projects, in general, a little

beyond the margins of the osseous nostrils, as in birds ; but
in Trionyx and Chelys, the projecting margins run forward

together in the form of a double cartilaginous proboscis.

   IThe Vomerine Sclerotome in the Osseous Fishes. -- have

already described the general constitution of the vomerine

sclerotome of the osseous fish, as one form of deterioration of

the fore part of the cranium. Its centrum, the vomer, when it

is present, is merely a cartilaginous nodule in the longitu

dinal axis of the basis of the cranium, in front of the bone

Iusually described as the " vomer," but which believe to be

the centrum of the ethmoidal sclerotome ; the neural elements
Iare those scale-like bones, which Cuvier recognises,
                                                       believe

correctly, as the nasals. Professor Owen considers these

122 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

bones to be the turbinal divisions of the olfactory " sense-

capsules ;" and, according to his doctrine of the sense-capsules,-
Ifelements of the splanchno-skeleton.
                                                             Professor Owen under

stands by the turbinal divisions of the olfactory sense-cap

sules, bones homologous with the inferior turbinated, or even
the so-called ethmoidal turbinated bones of the mammal, it is

difficult to understand, on embryological principles, how, as

splanchnic bones, and as developed in connection with the

maxillaries, they come to be situated under the integument of

the upper surface of the head. It
              is                                             moreover, questionable,
                                                        is,
whether the sclerous capsule of this, or of any of the special

sense-organs, ever divided, and its parts separated from one

another, under such relations as those presented by the so-
called " turbinals" and " ethmoidal" of the osseous fish.

The intermaxillaries form the principal and more peculiar

elements of this form of vomerine sclerotome. The nasal

fossae being entirely absent, the merely fibrous olfactory sense-

capsule  is   subcutaneous, or partly under cover of the nasal

bones (turbinals) the vomer              not developed as septum,
              ;                                              it,
                                                                          a
                      a
                                     is
but merely to supply fulcrum for the intermaxillaries, which

may even constitute the entire sclerotome, but are never

united below, so as to form complete haemal arch.a

    The Ethmoidal Sclerotome. --The ethmoidal sclerotome,

and the presphenoidal immediately behind                     present, in the

different forms of vertebrata, various remarkable modifications

of their elements, partly dependent on the position of the

olfactory lobes of the brain, partly on the position of the

olfactory capsules themselves, partly on peculiar adjustments

of the nasal fossae, and on the arrangements subservient to

mastication.

The withdrawal from behind forwards of the neural axis,

in the course of development, from the posterior extremity ofis
the neural canal, accompanied by well-known changes in

the evacuated but rapidly-increasing posterior trunk sclero

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                                                                           123

tomes. Corresponding, but much more remarkable changes,
to which attention has not been hitherto sufficiently directed,

accompany the withdrawal from before backwards of the

anterior part of the brain from the ethmoidal and pre-

sphenoidal sclerotomes. The neural portions of these sclero
tomes assume more or less of the catacentric character -- they

become demicatacentric. The neural chamber of the ethmoidal

sclerotome of the mammal, in addition to a portion of the

cerebrum proper, lodges its homologous segment of the
neural axis. In the bird the neural chamber of this sclero

tome is completely evacuated by the neural axis, which not

only leaves  but withdraws in part also from the pre-
a
           is
              it,

                                                                     a

                                                                                                            ;

                                                                                         a
sphenoidal. The absence of the anterior extremity of the

neural axis from the neural chamber of the ethmoidal

sclerotome accompanied by the division of that chamber

into right and left compartment by mesially laminar

centrum, the two compartments being occupied by the olfactory
capsules. The olfactory lobes in the bird are not only with

drawn from the ethmoidal sclerotome, but retreat to certain

distance backwards in the neural chamber of the presphenoidal.

To this extent the chamber becomes catacentric but instead

of its two resulting compartments being occupied by new

structures, having only to transmit the olfactory nerves, their

outer walls collapse upon the mesially laminar centrum, and

very generally disappear almost altogether, so as to leave the

nerves uncovered on the sides of the laminar centrum as they

pass forward to the ethmoidal chambers. The neural chamber

of the ethmoidal sclerotome of the bird, containing only the

olfactory capsules, so connected with the bones of the face
                    is
                                        is

                                             it
and with the neural arch and centrum of the presphenoidal,

as to be more or less movable along with the lower mandible.

The ethmoidal in the mammal thus seen to be the anterior

cerebral sclerotome, while in the bird becomes the posterior

facial sclerotome.

124  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

     In the reptile both the ethmoidal and presphenoidal                *
     it
sclerotomes are evacuated by the neural axis, the olfactory
             a
nerves alone passing along in the compressed tubular, partially-aa
catacentric neural chamber of the latter -- the olfactory capsules(?)

occupying the right and left chambers of the former. Init,
                                                                    is
reptiles, however, the very varied forms assumed by the bones           is
                                                                                a it
of the face, and more particularly by those of the palatine                         it is a (?)

arch, in relation to the nostrils, and the arrangements for

mastication, produce numerous remarkable modifications of

these two sclerotomes.

    In passing from the reptile to the fish, the ethmoidal

sclerotome may be said to gather together its scattered elements,

and to present centrum and neural arch frequently as com

pact as the human, but modified by the deficiency of nostrils,

and by the withdrawal of the neural axis.

    Ethmoidal Centrum and Neural Arch in the Mammal. --

The human cranium, as the most perfect in the higher of the
two forms of skull, will not unfrequently be found to afford

clue to the signification of bones which, being only applied to

their final purposes in are more or less masked in the other

mammalia, and apt to be misunderstood altogether in the fish,
Ifreptile, and bird.
                      we examine in connection the two bony

masses, which, in the current nomenclature of human anatomy,
are distinguished as frontal and ethmoid, they will be seen to

constitute ring, the space within which greatly dilated

behind, in consequence of the vast expansion, more particularly

of the upper and lateral portions of the frontal, while

diminished to tubular chink in front, and so indistinct

towards the nasal fossa; that the older anatomists named

" foramen caecum."    The development of this bony ring

shows to consist of five pieces. These are -- the mesial plate,

including the crista-galli of the ethmoid, the lateral masses of

     * This and the succeeding marks of interrogation we have found in  copy
annotated by the author. -- Ed.s.

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  125

the same bone, including the corresponding halves of the
cribriform lamina, and the two halves of the frontal. We
have here, therefore, a centrum, a pair of neurapophyses, and
a divided metaneurapophysis. The pair of olfactory nervous
centres, which terminate in front the entire series of segments
of the neural axis, are the segments of that axis, homologous
with this neural arch and centrum. In the mammalia only
is the upper part of this neural arch expanded and adapted
for the protection of the more or less developed fore part of
the cerebrum proper. In the central portion and lateral masses

Iof the ethmoid, and in the frontal bones of the mammal,

recognise the centrum and neural arch of a sclerotome, which

I provisionally distinguish as the ethmoidal.

     Centrum and Neural Arch of the Ethmoidal Sclerotome in
the Osseous Fish. -- The more or less concurrent statements of

Oken, Bojanus, Geoffroy, Cuvier, and Owen, as well as the
relations of the bones themselves, leave no doubt as to the
homology of the so-called pre-frontals of the fish. They are
neurapophyseal elements, the lateral ethmoidal masses of the
mammal in another form, and minus the ossified olfactory
capsules. The median bone superimposed upon the "pre
frontals " of the fish, and which has been very generally held
to be the united nasals, and the spine of the olfactory vertebra,

must be homologous with the frontal bone of the mammal if

its relations to the " pre-frontals " and olfactory nerves of the
former are compared with those of the ethmoid and frontal
bones, and the olfactory nerves of the latter. Professor Owen,
while he adopts the determination of the superior median

bone as the united nasals, also holds by the hitherto unanimous
opinion of anatomists, that the median bone armed with teeth,
 situated below the pre-frontals of the fish, is the vomer.

IGuided by the ethmoid of the mammal, cannot see in this

 bone aught else than the homologue of the central element of

 the mammalian ethmoid. The vomer is a mammalian bone :

12G  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

if it appears in the fish at all, it is a cartilaginous or semiossi-

 fied nodule between the intermaxillaries. That the centrum
 of the ethmoidal sclerotome in the fish, considered as the
 homologue of the central plate or bar of the mammalian
 ethmoid, should carry teeth in the fish, is not more remarkable
than that one of the centrums of the cervical vertebrae in that

class of animals should be so armed.
     Hozmal Arch of the Ethmoidal Sclerotome in the Mammal

Iand Osseous Fish. -- have commenced my account of the

morphological constitution of this important sclerotome by
pointing out the typical arrangement which its neural arch
and centrum present in the mammal and fish. As the arrange
ment of these parts of this sclerotome becomes much and
variously modified in birds, reptiles, and amphibia, in relation
to the various forms presented by the organs of smell and the
nostrils, it will be necessary, before proceeding further, to
examine the constitution of its haemal arch. Even in its most
complex form, this haemal arch, like those of the rhinal and
vomerine sclerotomes, consists of two elements only, the right

and left maxillary bones. In the osseous fish they resemble

the " lateral frontal processes " in the embryo ; they form only
an incipient arch like that formed by the vomerine haemapo-
physes in front of them. They do not invariably carry teeth.

They are variously connected to the haemapophyses before

and behind them, and superiorly to the lateral and fore part of
the centrum, neurapophyses, and metaneurapophyses of the
neural arch of their own sclerotome.

     The maxillaries of the mammal, more or less extended
from before backwards, and increased in breadth and depth to
adapt them to their functions in mastication ; meeting one
another below, to form a great part of the vault of the palate,
and to assist in the formation of the nasal passages ; hollowed
out to combine lightness with strength ; and buttressed by
numerous connections with neighbouring bones, nevertheless

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                       127

retain their connection with the neural portion of their own

sclerotome, being attached superiorly to the lateral masses of

the ethmoid, and to the frontal They are not articulated, as

in the fish, to their centrum ; but those connections to the

neurapophyses and metaneurapophyses, which in fish are

affected by ligaments, are sutures in the mammal. In the
sequel it will be shown, that of the two connections of the
maxillary --that to the frontal, and that to the lateral ethmoid
--the former is the most constant ; presenting in my opinion

the fundamental discriminative character of the remarkably

modified frontal of the bird, reptile, and amphibian.

    The Ethmoidal Sclerotome in the Bird. --The ethmoidal
sclerotome is remarkably modified in the bird. It forms no

part of the cranium proper, but assumes the position and

structure of a facial sclerotome. The bird, like the mammal,

has two proper facial sclerotomes. In the former there are

the vomerine and the ethmoidal ; in the latter the rhinal and
vomerine. In the majority of birds, also, the ethmoidal

sclerotome, along with the vomerine, moves more or less freely

on the presphenoidal. It  moreover, peculiar in being
                      ;

                                    is,

                                                 ;
                                                                                                               ;
chiefly devoted to the economy of the organs of smell in

having its metaneurapophyseal elements separated from one

another by the passage backwards of the conjoined ascending
processes of the intermaxillaries in the feeble development

of its haemapophyses  and in its cavities being altogether

neural, its neurapophyseal elements forming more or less of

its palatal aspect.

The metaneurapophyses of the ethmoidal sclerotome of

the bird are the so-called nasal bones. From their invariable
connections with the maxillaries, cannot see in these " nasal

bones " aught else than the proper frontal bones --the frontals
                          I

                                                        ;

                                                    a
of the mammal. They are separated from one another by the

ascending processes of the intermaxillaries                circumstance

which does not militate against their being the right and left

128  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

halves of a metaneurapophysis. They are more or less
elongated in the antero-posterior direction ; and they bound
the posterior margins of the external nostrils by the descend
ing processes which connect them with their maxillaries. To
distinguish them from the metaneurapophyses of the pre-

Isphenoidal sclerotome, designate them ethmoido-frontals.

     The arrangement of the centrum and neurapophyses of
this sclerotome in the bird appears to me to have been in a
great measure overlooked, from having been examined in the
macerated skull, in which these parts, as consisting principally

of cartilage, are to a great extent absent.
     The centrum consists of the posterior and greater part of

the mesial cartilaginous lamina, the interior portion of which
forms the vomerine centrum. The ethmoidal portion of this
laminar mesial cartilage flattens out at its upper margin, in
the same manner as the vomerine portion in front ; and like

the flattened upper edge of the so-called " ethmoid bone "--
the centrum of the presphenoidal sclerotome behind. In the

same manner as the flattened upper margin of the vomerine

portion extends outwards on each side, so as to form a hood
over the upper and fore part of the external nostrils, the
flattened upper margin of the ethmoidal portion of the septum
passes outwards on each side, under cover of the ascending
processes of the intermaxillary, and under the ethmoido-
frontal, extending down more or less to the level of the
palatal plate of the maxillary, and then turning in towards
the mesial plane, approaches or meets the lower margin of the

mesial lamina itself. Posteriorly, these curved cartilaginous
plates close in upon the posterior margin of the septum ;
which is not continuous with the anterior margin of the
laminar septum of the presphenoid. They are each, however,
perforated or notched for the transmission of the olfactory
nerve ; and they also leave on each side of the septum at
their posterior inferior angles, a space for the posterior nasal

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                    129

orifice. The superior and middle turbinated folds of the

nasal chamber on each side are also supported by turbinated

cartilaginous projections from the internal surfaces of their

plates.

   I have already stated that the anterior fibro-cartilaginous

portion of the persistent part of the primordial cranium of the

bird enters into the structure of its vomerine sclerotome ; it

will now be observed that its posterior hyaline portion enters
into the formation of the ethmoidal sclerotome. In the

majority of birds the septal lamina continues cartilaginous, as

well as the greater part of the curved lateral plates, with

their internal turbinal projections. A more or less extended
portion only of each curved plate becomes ossified when it

extends inwards across the palate ; and the ossified portion

becomes anchylosed to the maxillary, or to the descending

maxillary process of the ethmoido-frontal (" nasal and in
many birds to the anterior extremity of the palate bone.
I

            ;
                                  ;

                                I it
                                                                                               "),

                                                     I
       recognise, therefore, the posterior part of the nasal septum
as the centrum the so-called " nasals " as the meta-neurapo-

physes and the more or less ossified lateral and inferior walls

of the olfactory chambers as the neurapophyses of the eth
moidal sclerotome of the bird. If
                                   be objected to this

determination, that the parts which consider as neurapo

physes are only portions of the olfactory sense-capsules,
would merely observe that these sense-capsules are in fact

combined with the neurapophyseal portions of the ethmoidal

sclerotome in the bird, as in the primordial cranium of the
mammal, reptile, and amphibian, and as in cartilaginous

fishes but that this circumstance in no way nullifies the
;

                  I
                                                     I
existence of the neurapophyseal element itself, either in the

sclerotome with which the olfactory capsules, or in those with

which the ocular and auditory capsules, are connected.

would also observe that  base my determination of the

neurapophyseal character of these parts, not merely on their

                         K

130  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

relations in the bird, but on the varied relations exhibited by

their corresponding parts in reptiles.

     The maxillaries or haamapophyses of the ethmoidal sclero

tome are feebly developed in the bird. Connected above,

chiefly to the descending processes of the ethmoido-frontals,

and more or less prolonged in the antero-posterior direction,

the maxillaries do not invariably complete the harnial arck

Their region, therefore, of the palate, is more or less completely

occupied by the neurapophyseal plates of their own sclerotome.
     The Ethmoidal Sclerotome in the Chelonian. -- The connec

tion of the maxillaries of the tortoises and turtles, by means

of the ascending processes of these bones, with the so-called

pre-frontals, appears to me to indicate that the latter are

homologous with the ethmoido-frontals of the bird, or the
Ifrontals of Mammalia.
                        recognise in them the meta-neura-

pophyses of the ethmoidal sclerotome. Each of these bones
sends down from its posterior margin a lamina, concave in

front, and forming, with the concave under surface of the bone

itself, the posterior superior hollow of the nasal fossa. The
inner margins of these two descending lamina; give attachment

to the anterior margins of the fibro-cartilaginous laminae,

which bound laterally the compressed pre-sphenoidal neural

space, and form the so-called interorbital septum. The inner
margins of the two descending frontal lamina; are, therefore,

separated from one another above by the breadth of the fore

part of the groove on the mesial part of the under surface of

the combined so-called "frontals." If now the macerated

skull of the turtle be examined, it will be found that a

complex bony piece, the so-called "vomer," connects by its

pair of short divergent upper processes the inferior extremities

of the inner margins of the descending frontal processes, con

verting the space between them into a triangular orifice. This

so-called vomer, after sending a horizontal plate backwards

between the palatines to form the mesial portion of the

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  131

common orbital floor, and to support the cartilaginous bar-like

centrum of the pre-sphenoid, passes down as the osseous septum

of the posterior nares, and terminates in the form of a penta

gonal plate in the palate, between the palatines and maxillaries,
and in some species in a hexagonal form, between the palatines,

the maxillaries, and intermaxillaries. The relations of the

ethmoidal neurapophyses to their meta-neurapophyses in the

bird, and the presence of the former in the maxillary

region of the palate, led me to suspect that the so-called
" vomer " of the turtle is the combined neurapophyses of its
ethmoidal sclerotome. But its posterior horizontal laminar

process which supports the cartilaginous pre-sphenoidal cen

trum, as well as the process which forms the septum of the

posterior nares, indicated the probability of the " vomer" being
Ia still more complex bone.
                             have not met with the palatal

plate as a separate bone in the turtle, although in longitudinal

Isections have observed faint indications of its having been
Iso. find, however, that in certain tortoises, not only is the

palatal plate connected by a distinct suture to the upper
portion of the so-called " vomer," but it is divided by a similar

suture in the mesial line of the palate into two halves. In

these tortoises, therefore, the separation of the posterior nares,
the junction of the descending processes of the ethmoido-
frontals, and the support of the cartilaginous bar-like centrum

of the pre-sphenoid, are affected by a distinct bone, which,
including its connections to the palatines, presents all the

Icharacters of the so-called " vomer " of the bird. But have

already stated my belief that the bone so-called is not the

Ivomer of the bird ; and in the sequel shall state the grounds

Ion which hold it to be the combined ento-pterygoids -- the

upper elements of the palatine arch.

    Ethmoidal Sclerotome in the Crocodiles. -- In the crocodiles

proper, and the gavials, the lachrymal is interposed between

the so-called pre-frontal and the maxillary. In the alligators

132 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

the maxillary resumes its connection with the pre-frontal,
which it had lost in the two other families on account of the
elongation of the snout. The pre-frontals in all the crocodilians
are separated from one another mesially by the passage back
wards of narrow contiguous processes of the nasals, and by
similar processes which pass forwards from the so-called
"proper frontals" -- in this respect resembling the so-called
" nasals " of the bird, which are separated from one another
by the ascending processes of the intermaxillaries.

     Assuming the relations of the pre-frontals of the croco
dilian to the maxillary arch as evidence of their being the
meta-neurapophyses of the ethmoidal sclerotome --that is,

collectively, the homologue of the mammalian frontal --the

next elements of this sclerotome to be determined are its
neurapophyses. At this point the type of ethmoidal sclero
tome exhibited by the bird, and the modification of that type
presented by the chelonian, indicate its character in the
crocodilian. The descending processes of the pre-frontals of
the crocodiles are connected inferiorly to the ascending pro
cesses of the so-called " palate-bones." Now, a bone connected
to the homologue of the mammalian frontal cannot well be
considered as the palate-bone, even although it be situated
between and united by suture to the maxillary and pterygoid.

But a bone with such relations, if viewed in the light of the

corresponding relations of the ethmoidal neurapophyses of the
bird, indicates its own real nature. The ethmoidal neura
pophyses of the bird, connected above with the ethmoido-
frontals, form below more or less of the palatine vault. The
ethmoidal neurapophyses of the chelonians, pushed away
forwards and downwards from the ethmoido-frontal by the
ento-pterygoid, still form a part of the vault of the palate.

In like manner recognise, in the so-called " palate-bones "

of the crocodilian, the neurapophyses of its ethmoidal sclero
tome. The ethmoido-frontals and neurapophyses of the bird,
I
                                                                                                  (?)

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.        133

form, along with their cartilaginous septum or centrum, a

complete catacentric neural ring. The interposition of the

ento-pterygoid of the chelonian separates the meta-neura-

pophyses from the neurapophyses of the ethmoidal sclerotome,

and at the same time separates the neural space into an upper

portion, mesially divided by the cartilaginous septum or

centrum for the passage of the olfactory nerves, and into an

inferior, mesially divided by the ento-pterygoid itself for the

right and left nasal passages. A similar but somewhat

modified change is effected in the ethmoidal sclerotome of the

crocodilian, by the interposition of the anterior extremities of
Iits pterygoids --which anterior processes
                                            believe to be, in

fact, the ento-pterygoids. These anterior, generally mesially

united, processes of the pterygoids of the crocodilian, were

considered by Cuvier as representing the under portion of the

mammalian vomer. He describes them as two osseous pieces
fixed to the inner margins of the " palate-bones," in front of

the "anterior frontals," and of that part of the pterygoid

which covers the nasal canals. Professor Owen describes
these pieces as the " vomer," and as being generally anchylosed

to the fore part of the basi-sphenoid ; but he adds the follow

Iing very important observation, which have verified, that

they (the " vomer ") form a distinct bone in a species of alli
gator, which passes so far forward and downwards as to

appear in the form of a plate in the vault of the palate, in

front of the palate-bones.

     That this double bony splint is not a vomer, as Cuvier

supposed, must be evident, if the vomer is to be considered as
an element of the vomerine sclerotome. It cannot be, as

Professor Owen states, a vomer united to the " basi-sphenoid ;"

because, in front of the elevated, laterally compressed, quad

rilateral process which passes forwards and upwards from the

centrum of the post-sphenoid, the real axis of the skull is

continued forward in the form of a compressed cartilaginous

134  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

bar, which is the centrum of the pre-sphenoid, and which
passes in front into the cartilaginous nasal septum, which

constitutes the ethmoidal and vomerine centrums. The
crocodilian and chelonian skulls are, in fact, entirely destitute
of ossified central elements in front of their post-sphenoidal
centrums, the superincumbent framework in these forms of

cranium being supported along the base, not by ossified cen
trums, but by greatly expanded and modified pterygoids,

ento-pterygoids, ethmoidal neurapophyses, maxillaries, and
inter-maxillaries, immediately above which series of bones

lies the persistent central axis of the primordial cranium, as

far back as the ossified centrum of the post-sphenoidal sclero

tome. In the mesial antero-posterior section of the macerated
skull of the Crocodiliis vulgaris, a suture will be found com

mencing in front of the common orifice of the Eustachian
tubes, and terminating at the lower part of the root of the

laterally-compressed post-sphenoidal process already alluded

to. In front of this suture, the' section presents no traces of

central elements, the pterygoids and so-called " palatals "

taking their places. In a section of this kind in the Museum
of the University of Edinburgh, the extremity of the anterior
process of the pterygoid passes forwards and downwards,
appearing in the suture between the two "palatines," about
an inch from their anterior margins ; the right and left por
tions exposed on the vault of the palate being separated from
the " palatines " by surrounding suture, and forming together

I Ia narrow double surface, one-eighth of an inch in length. In

the section to which allude, and in similar sections, ob

serve traces of the line of anchylosis between these anterior
processes and the pterygoids themselves. These lines run up

wards and forwards, and appear to include the anterior and
greater part of the pterygoidal portion of the nasal septum,
and the thin plate which, on each side, passes up to be

united to the descending process of the " pre-frontai" In

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  135

disarticulating the skull of the crocodile the pterygoids

generally remain attached to the post-sphenoidal centrum, so

that the prolonged anterior processes of the former present
the appearance of being elongations of the latter, which they
in fact are not.

     From the foregoing considerations, and on grounds to be
explained in the sequel, when the palatine arch or haemal arch

Iof the pre-sphenoidal sclerotome comes to be examined, recog

nise in the crocodilian vomer of Cuvier and Owen the proximal
or upper element of the pre-sphenoidal hremal arch --the same
element to which, when existing in certain fishes, Professor

Owen applies the sufficiently expressive term ento-pterygoid.

    It will now be observed, that in consequence of the great

development of the pterygoids, and of the ento-pterygoids in

the crocodilian, the latter, extending forward into the neural
space of the ethmoidal sclerotome, roof over the greater part,
and provide a septum for nearly the whole of that extent of
the nasal fossae, the sides and floors of which are formed by
the so-called " palatals" or ethmoidal neurapophyses, and abut
against the descending processes of the " pre-frontals" or
ethmoido-frontals, without entirely extruding the neurapo
physes from these processes, as in the chelonian. There is
another minor difference between these parts in the croco

dilian and chelonian. In the chelonian, as has been already

stated, the ento-pterygoids having pushed the ethmoidal neu
rapophyses from their natural connection with the descending
processes of the ethmoido-frontals, complete, by means of their

ascending divergent processes, the triangular space for the

olfactory nerves. In the crocodilian, again, the descending

processes of the ethmoido-frontals complete the space for the
olfactory nerves, by means of a short process from each of
them, which, passing inwards, meets its fellow of the opposite
side a little above the junctions of the descending processes
themselves with the ento-pterygoids. The space left between

136  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

this transverse commissure above, the combined ento-ptery-

goids below, and the lower ends of the descending ethmoido-

frontal processes laterally, is occupied by a prolongation for

wards of the cartilaginous bar-like pre-sphenoidal centrum.

    If the bones hitherto considered by comparative anatomists

as the " palatines" in the crocodilian, are in reality the neu-

rapophyses of its ethmoidal sclerotome, the question arises --

Where are the actual palate-bones ? This question comes to

be examined in the sequel, when the haemal arch of the pre-

sphenoidal sclerotome, of which these bones are elements, is

Iunder consideration. At present may state that the study

of the crania of the bird, lacertian, and ophidian, has led me

to recognise as the palate-bone that bone which Cuvier was

induced to consider peculiar to the lizard and serpent, and
named "os transverse" or "pterygoide externe ;" and which

lA-ofessor Owen also names ecto-pterygoid.

     The Ethmoidal Neural Arch and Centrum in the Lacer-
tians.--The maxillaries of the typical lacertians are invariably

connected above to the so-called pre-frontals. These pre

frontals are widely separated from one another by the anterior
extremities of the so-called " principal frontals," which pass

forward, and bound laterally the divided or undivided nasals.

The pre-frontals bound the anterior superior angles of the

orbits, sending downwards on each side a plate which sepa

rates the orbit from the nasal cavity, is more or less intimately

connected with the so-called " double vomer," and with the
Iso-called " palatines."
                          shall, in the sequel, state the grounds
Ion which hold the " palatines " of the lizard, ophidian, and

amphibian, to be its ento-pterygoids, and to be the homologues

of the bone or bones which in the bird are considered as the
I" vomer."
            believe the " transverse bones" of the lizard to be

actually its palate-bones, pushed backwards and outwards by

the greatly-developed ento-pterygoids, and of its so-called
" vomer." The so-called " vomer" of the lizard consists of two

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  137

bones, which form the floor of the nostrils, separated from,

but at the same time connected to, one another by the lower

margin of the cartilaginous nasal septum, abutting against the

intermaxillaries in front, and the so-called "palatines" or

ento-pterygoids behind, and leaving a space on each side,

wider behind than before, between their outer margins and

the maxillaries, for the posterior nares. In some lizards the

posterior extremities of the two halves of the " vomer" are
separated from the transverse descending plates of the " pre

frontals" by the interposition of the anterior extremities of

the ento-pterygoids, but in others they articulate with the

pre-fronto-lachrymal.  Anatomists appear to have been in

duced to look upon these two bones in the lizard as the two

halves of the vomer, by the same circumstance which has

induced them to consider the ento-pterygoids of the bird as its

vomer --viz. their position between the posterior nares. But

the general relations of the so-called double "vomer" of the

lizard indicate that its two halves are homologous with the

ethmoidal palate-plates of the chelonian, with the so-called
"palatines" or ethmoidal neurapophyses of the crocodUian,

with the corresponding cartilaginous or osseous pieces in the

bird, and with the lateral masses of the ethmoid in the mam

mal. It appears to me that the ethmoidal neural arch and

centrum form a catacentric arrangement, the two compart

ments of which constitute the greater part of the nasal fossre, the

olfactory nerves entering through the mesially divided space
between the descending or orbito-nasal processes of the meta-

neurapophyses ; and the posterior nares passing off on the outer

sides, and between the neurapophyses and the maxillaries.

    The Ethmoidal Neural Arch and Centrum in Ophidians. --

The maxillaries of the serpent are articulated or connected to
the " pre-frontals." The latter are separated from one another
mesially by the elongation of the nasals back to the " principal
frontals." Each of the " pre-frontals," comparatively large

138 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

and anchylosed to the lachrymal, sends down a transverse

orbito-nasal plate, notched on its inner margin for the olfactory
nerve, but separated from its fellow of the opposite side by

the pre-sphenoidal processes of attachment of the " palatines."
The space roofed over by the nasals and "pre-frontals" is

mesially divided above by the contiguous mesial descending
laminae of the nasals, and below by the cartilaginous nasal

septum. It is floored by the double " vomer," the two halves

of which, connected by the lower margin of the cartilaginous
septum, extend from the intermaxillaries in front to the cen
trum of the pre-sphenoidal sclerotome behind, being separated
from the orbito-nasal processes of the " pre-frontals" by the
pre-sphenoidal processes of the " palatines."

     From what has already been stated with reference to the
corresponding parts in the bird, the chelonian, and saurian

Ireptile, it will now be seen that hold the so-called " pre

frontals" of the serpent to be its actual frontals or ethmoido-
frontals ; its so-called double " vomer" to consist of the right
and left neurapophyses, as the "pre-frontals" are the two halves
of the meta-neurapophyses ; and the cartilaginous nasal septum
the centrum of its ethmoidal sclerotome.

     The Ethmoidal Neural Arch and Centrum inthe Amphibians.

I-- The view which take of these parts in the Amphibia will

at once appear from the foregoing statements, and may be illus
trated by the structure in the frog. As in the bird, the basis
of the ethmoidal neural arch and centrum consists of that por
tion of the persistent primordial cranium which is situated
behind the intermaxillary region, and immediately in front of
the " os a ceinture." The mesial portion of tins mass of car
tilage forms the centrum of the sclerotome, as the posterior
part of the nasal septum. The posterior portions of the nasal
fossae are hollowed out on its sides. Its upper surface is
covered by the so-called "pre-frontals," which are, in fact,
etlnnoidal-frontals, or the two halves of the divided meta

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                  139

neurapophyses. Its lower surface is supported by the two

triangular bones, covered with teeth, and which are the neura-

pophyseal ethmoidal elements, already examined in the other

Vertebrate. The posterior nares are situated behind, between

the outer margins of these so-called vomerine bones and the

maxillaries. The latter are, as usual. connected to the eth-

moido-frontals.

   IOf the Views which luive been hitherto taken of the Ethmoidal

or Nasal Vertebra, or Sclerotome. -- am precluded in an ab

stract from entering upon the important but tangled morpho
Ilogical history of the nasal segment of the cranium
                                                      shall

only, therefore, on this department of the subject, make a few

observations, in deference to the authority of Professor Owen,

and in explanation of those points on which I find myself at
Ivariance with his doctrine.
                              have already so far stated, and
Iin the sequel shall more fully state, the grounds on which

dissent from the doctrine of Oken and Bojanus, adopted by

Professor Owen, that the nasals and vomer are respectively

Ithe neural spine and body of the nasal vertebra. What in

tend more particularly to notice at present is that part of Pro

fessor Owen's doctrine which relates to the neurapophyseal
elements of the nasal vertebra.

Professor Owen considers the middle plate of the mam

malian ethmoid to be the coalesced pre-frontals, and the two

halves of the cribriform plate, the ethmoidal cellules, and

turbinated laminae, to be collectively the greatly-developed
Ifolfactory capsules.
                       the latter are kept out of view, as not

entering, according to his doctrine, into the formation of the

ethmoidal or nasal neural arch, the doctrine necessitates the
conversion of the laterally-placed " pre-frontals" of the fish

Iand reptile into a single mesial laminar bone. Here would

observe that, overlooking for the present the adoption by Pro

fessor Owen of the current statements as to the identity of
the "pre-frontals" of the fish with the " pre-frontals" of the

140        ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

Ireptile,  canuot conceive how the " pre-frontals," either of

the fish or reptile, can be homologous with a mesial bone.

IEmbryologically, cannot understand how the olfactory nerves,

which in the fish and reptiles are situated mesiad of the "pre

frontals," can become placed in the mammal on their outer
aspects. The pair of " pre-frontals" in the crocodile or turtle

can be legitimately enough conceived as coalescing mesially

into a single bone ; but this change presupposes the with

drawal or obliteration of the olfactory nerves ; for, otherwise,

two conditions must be admitted, both of which are embryo
logically untenable -- first, that the olfactory lobes of the

mammal are at one period in its development mesiad to the

right and left halves of its central ethmoidal plate ; and

secondly, that the nervous and sclerous structures change

places, the former passing outwards through the latter, or the

latter meeting in front of the former, and passing backwards

between them. But the actual facts are these :--The mesial

plate, or bar, of the mammalian ethmoid is mesial from the

first ; and the olfactory bulbs, or nerves, are situated from the

first on its lateral aspects. The mesial plate is the prolonga

tion forward of the central bar of the primordial cranium ; it

is a true vertebral centrum, and is continued onwards and

downwards into the vomerine portion of the cranial axis. The

cribriform lamellae are the only parts, therefore, of the mam

malian ethmoid which present in their embryo and adult con

ditions all the characters of neurapophyseal elements ; con
nected below with their centrum, and laterally or above with

their frontal meta-neurapophyses, they, along with the latter
and the centrum, close in the fore part of the encephalic portion

of the cranial cavity, and enclose the olfactory lobes of the

brain. That the olfactory, like the fifth nerve of the mammal,

leaves the encephalic cavity by more than one orifice, and that

the olfactory "sense-capsules" are united to the corresponding

neurapophyses, are circumstances which afford no arguments

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  141

against this determination, but, on the contrary, are in accord

ance with the union of the auditory capsules with their cor

responding neurapophyses, and the exit of the auditory nerve

from the encephalic cavity in divisions. It must also be ob

served, that if we are to look, with Professor Owen, upon the

central lamina or bar of the mammalian ethmoid as the result
of the mesial union of a pair of " pre-frontals," we must assign

a morphological reason for the co-existence of a mesial car

tilaginous septum with divided "pre-frontals" of the reptile

and fish.

   I am also obliged to dissent from Professor Owen's deter

mination of the so-called " ethmoid" of the bird as the mesially-

united neurapophyses of its nasal vertebra. Apparently in

fluenced by its usual designation, and restricted to his own view
of its homology by his determination of the " basi-sphenoid"

as consisting of the connate centrums of the " mesencephalic"
and " prosencephala" vertebrae, Mr. Owen has in the bird, as

in the mammal. arranged this portion of his morphological
system in opposition to embryological facts. The two olfactory

nerves of the bird pass forward on each side of the so-called
" ethmoid" in shallow grooves ; in certain instances only do

they pass through notches or complete orifices formed by

osseous development from the two surfaces of the bone. The

two nerves in no instance pass forwards between the plates of
the bone in any part of their extent. At no period during

development are the olfactory nerves of the bird situated

mesiad of any part of this bone ; for it is originally a mesial

cartilaginous plate, a portion of the axis of the primordial

cranium, extending forwards and upwards from that part of

the primordial axis which, when ossified, constitutes the

anterior or acuminated extremity of the centrum of the post-

Isphenoidal sclerotome. In the sequel shall have to point

out that this bone in the bird, which anatomists have hitherto
looked upon as the " ethmoid,"
                                is,  in fact, the body or centrum

142 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

of the pre-sphenoidal sclerotome converted into a mesial plate
extending up to and flattened out at the upper surface of the
cranium, in accordance with the catacentric character of the
neural arch of the sclerotome, of which it is an element. Its

corresponding neurapophyses are the pre-sphenoidal wings --
the " orbito-sphenoids" of Professor Owen -- which not only

bound laterally the orifices for the optic, but also those for the
olfactory nerves. The so-called " ethmoid" of the bird is not
therefore formed by the coalescence of a pair of " pre-frontals,"

but is a mesial element belonging to another sclerotome. The
bird already possesses distinct or " divided" " pre-frontals,"
with all the characters of the " pre-frontals" of the reptile in
its so-called " nasals."

      Duges considered the " os en ceinture " of the frog to be
the ethmoid, from its giving passage to the olfactory nerves
by two funnel-shaped orifices at its anterior extremity, and
from its intimate connection with the nasal cartilage in front.
Professor Owen, on the same grounds, while he holds the pos
terior part of this bone in the Rana loans to consist of the
" orbito-sphenoids," looks upon its anterior part as the confluent
" pre-frontals." But as the " os en ceinture " of the common
frog originates in a centre of ossification on each side of its
fundamental portion of the primordial cranium ; and as Pro

fessor Owen does not state the grounds on which he holds the
" orbito-sphenoids " to be confluent with it in the bull-frog ;

Ias can find no trace of such confluence either in the bull-frog

or common frog, and as the fore part of the bone is divided by a

Imesial septum, -- look upon it as consisting of a single pair

of neurapophyses and a catacentric septum. As this " os en
ceinture " is situated upon the upper surface of the anterior
acuminated portion of the centrum of the post- sphenoid, as in
the bird, and as it is covered above, and in the common frog
is united with the anterior portion of the so-called " parieto
frontal," it appears to me to constitute the neural arch and

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                      143

centrum of the pre-sphenoidal sclerotome, of which the orbito-

sphenoids are the neurapophyses. The proper "os en ceinture"
of Cuvier is in fact the homologous structure in the aneurous

batrachian with the so-called "ethmoid," and the orbito-

sphenoids collectively in the bird ; the centrum being prin

cipally developed in the latter, the neurapophyseal elements

Iin the former. On these grounds, and also because hold,

with Cuvier, the " nasals " of the frog to be its " pre-frontals,"

I cannot assent to Professor Owen's doctrine that the " os en

ceinture " exhibits a stage in the mesial coalescence of a pair
of " pre-frontals," the final effect of which is the formation of

a mesial ethmoidal plate, or mesially-united nasal neura

pophyses.

    On the Actinapophyscs of the Ethmoidal Sclerotome. --As

the radiating elements of the ethmoidal segment of the skull

are numerous and important, and as their elucidation requires
a more extended reference to corresponding elements in the

succeeding sclerotomes than can be made before the exami

Ination of these has been entered upon, shall at present make

only a general statement on the subject.

    In the mammal we find a series of sclerous elements

arranged from above downwards on each side of the ethmoidal

sclerotome. On its upper or neural portion are the olfactory
" capsule " and the lachrymal bone. On the lower or haemal

portion, the cartilages of the eyelids, with the inferior turbi
Ifnated and malar bones.
                          the secondary antero-posterior

elongation of the maxillary be kept out of view ; and if it be

conceived in its fundamental developmentary form as a rib
like bone, the convexity of which is inclined outwards and

backwards ; and at the same time, the possibility of double
arrangement of actinapophyseal elements in each sclerotome
be borne in view, will be seen that the malar extends out
it if,

                                                                              ;

                                                                    a

                                       I
wards and backwards from the anterior or outer the inferior

turbinal from the posterior or inner aspect of the bone.

144  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

have already stated that the actinapophyseal elements of the

cranium are generally flattened or extended so as to abut
against one another, and against the other bones of the skull.
Thus the malar passes backwards in the fibrous membrane
which extends across the orbital opening, and which covers in
the temporal fossa. The final purpose of the malar is to afford

an abutment against the squamosal so as to strengthen the
flank of the mammalian head. The malar, therefore, in many

instances sends secondary processes upwards and inwards to

Iabut against other bones. While gladly avail myself of

Professor Owen's term " squamosal," and fully agree with him
as to the bone itself being a "radiating" element of the

Icranium ; and while more particularly assent to his very

beautiful determination of it as the " quadrate jugal " of the

Ibird, must, nevertheless, contend for the much greater pro

bability of its being a radiating element of the mandibular
than of the maxillary arch. Its intimate connection with the
quadrate bone in the development of the chick, and the dis
union of it and the malar in certain Mammalia, appear to me
to indicate that they belong to distinct sclerotomes.

     The extended attachment from above downwards of the

inferior turbinal to the inner aspect of the maxillary of the
fcetal ruminant, a form of attachment which is repeated in
the lachrymal process of the bone in the human subject, in
dicates the primary actinapophyseal form of the bone. Its
elongation backwards on the inner aspect of the palate-bone,

and its prolongation forward to abut against the cartilaginous
actinapophysis of the vomerine hremal arch, are secondary
processes in the development of the bone, and steps towards
the completion of that antero-posterior system of serially
homologous actinapophyses which constitute what may be
termed the inferior turbinal system. The inferior concha is
peculiar to the nasal fossa of the mammal. The sclerous
elements, which constitute its skeleton, in its most fully de

THE SKELETON" OF TIIE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  145

veloped form, are posterior or inner actinapophyses of the
rhinal, vomerine, and ethmoidal haemal arches. These actina
pophyses become included in the nasal fossa by the closure
of the metasomatomic clefts ; and, as they subsequently
elongate, they abut against one another in the antero-posterior
direction.

   I shall, in the sequel, show that the more or less denned

space termed orbit, at the side of the mammalian cranium, is

fundamentally the metasomatomic fissure between the eth
moidal and pre-sphenoidal sclerotomes. The upper part of
this fissure continues permanently open as the lachrymal
canal, and drains away the secretion which bathes the front
of the eyeball, while that organ, supported by the sclerotic,
which is a pre-sphenoidal neuractinapophysis, and surrounded
by its accessory structures, is lodged in its dilated portion.
From the upper, anterior, and lower orbital margins, which
are formed by elements of the anterior of its two bounding
primary sclerotomes, a fibrous membrane extends backwards,
covered externally by the orbicular muscle, and closing in the
contents of the orbit, with the exception of the front of the
eye, exposed through the palpebral fissure. This fibrous
membrane is a metasomatomic or actinal lamina, extending
very obliquely outwards and backwards like an operculum
over the orbit. The succeeding metasomatomic membrane
assumes the form of the tissue which separates the orbit from

the temporal fossa, and which, passing backwards external to
that fossa, forms the temporal fascia which constitutes an
operculum to that space. The temporal fossa itself is the

upper portion of the metasomatomic fissure between the pre-
and post-sphenoidal sclerotomes, occupied by the muscles of
mastication and the homologous nerve ; the lower part of the
fissure on each side remaining permanently open as the mouth,
or more correctly as the anterior opening of the isthmus of
the fauces. By the extension of ossification from neighbouring

  146 ON THE MOW'HOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

  bones into the anterior and external portion of this fibrous

  layer, the orbit may be more or less shut off from the temporal

  fossa.

       The cartilaginous laminae which support the eyelids of the
 mammal are developed in the fibrous layer which constitutes
 the operculum of the orbit, and lie in the same morphological
 plane as the malar and lachrymal bones. Their histological,
 as well as morphological relations appear to me to indicate
 not only that the palpebral cartilages are actinal elements of
 the endo-sclerome, but also that they are anterior or external
 haemactinapophyses of the ethmoidal sclerotome. This view
 of the morphological relations of the malar bone, palpebral
 cartilages, and opercular membrane of the orbit in the mam
 mal, is borne out by the corresponding arrangement in the

 bird. A fibrous membrane extends backwards over the orbit,

 from the posterior extremity of the feebly-developed'maxillary,
 and from the posterior margin of the descending process of

the ethmoido-frontal. In the lower part of this membrane the

 malar is imbedded ; across its centre the palpebral cartilage ;
 and at the antero-superior angle of the orbit, the lachrymal
 bone. These have all distinct actinapophyseal characters,
 which, in the case of the lachrymal, enables us to perceive
more clearly how the mammalian lachrymal, having become
intercalated between its corresponding haemapophysis and
neurapophysis, retains only so much of its actinapophyseal
character as is indicated in the anterior margin of its groove,
the remainder of the bone being a secondary expansion.

     The lachrymal bone of the bird may extend into the
orbital membrane along the outer margin of the so-called
" principal frontal," or sphenoido-frontal, and become attached
to that bone without losing its connection with the ethmoido-

frontal. It may thus also form a union with the supra-orbital

bone, when that bone is present, as in the hawks. The

lachrymal may, moreover, extend backwards under the eye to

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  147

the post-frontal process, and may have a branch of communi
cation with the antero-inferior projection of the mastoid, as in

certain parrots. It may also extend down to the malar, and

may be connected in this direction with the transverse pro
jection of the so-called " ethmoid," or pre-sphenoidal centrum.
The infra-ocular bony arch in the maccaws and certain other
birds is not a zygomatic arch, although consisting like it of
actinapophyseal elements. The proper zygomatic arch, as
consisting of the malar and squamosal, exists in all birds ;

the infra-ocular arch is ossified in comparatively few.

     The reference of the lachrymal and the other bony forma

tions round the orbit in birds to a muco-dermal system by

the continental anatomists and by Professor Owen, appears to

me to be disproved by their relation to the soft parts. They
are all developed in aponeurotic bands, which enter into the

formation of the orbital fascia already alluded to. In a band

extending along the margin of the sphenoido-frontal. the
supra-orbital bone takes its rise, which may thus become con

nected with the lachrymal, when that bone, which is developed
in the anterior extremity of the band, extends backwards in it.

A second band extends downwards and backwards from the

lachrymal to the malar, forming a ligament between the two

bones, and along which ossification may extend. A third

band extends from the posMrontal process downwards and
forwards to the quadrate-jugal or squamosal, along which

ossification may extend from above. In all birds a band

connects the lachrymo-malar with the post-fronto-squamosal
band, thus forming an arch below the under eyelid. The ex

tension of ossification into this commissural band, probably

from both extremities, completes the infra-orbital bony arch,
and may approximate or unite it to the squamoso-jugal or

proper zygomatic arch. A fibrous band, which extends down
wards and forwards in the temporal fascia from the anterior

process of the mastoid, becomes ossified in some birds ; and

148  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

it is an extention of this ossification which appears to form

the mastoidal limb, or attachment of the infra-ocular arch of
Ithe maccaw. shall, in the sequel, state the grounds on which
I regard as actinapophyseal all the bones developed in the
Iopercular membrane of the orbital of the bird.
                                                 regard the

lachrymal bone and the supra-orbital bone or bones of the

saurians, as referable to the same morphological category ;

and as due to arrangements in the fibrous operculum of the

orbit, similar. to those in the bird ; as also the connection be

tween the malar and the post-frontal of the crocodilian, as

well as the change in the direction of the jugal, and the

peculiar position of the squamosal in the typical lizards.

     The supra-orbital bone or cartilage, with the infra-ocular

bony arch, appears in various forms in the osseous fish ; and

the arrangements presented by this form of cranium clearly

indicate that these orbital bones are parts of a system of

actinapophyseal elements referable respectively to the eth

moidal, pre- and post-sphenoidal, temporal, and occipital

sclerotomes, peculiarly modified and connected in front for

the protection of the orbit, and behind for the suspension of

the pectoral girdle.

    The Pre-Sphenoidal Sclerotome. -- Its Centrum and
Neural Arch.--It has been already stated that this sclerotome

is peculiar in the mammal, in the absence of its meta-

neurapophyses, while this mesial element is more or less fully

and largely developed in the other forms of Vertebrata. When

the cerebrum proper is developed, the sphenoido-frontal bone

is absent ; when the cerebrum proper is a mere film, as in

birds and reptiles, or is absent altogether, the sphenoido-frontal

is present. As the evidence on which this statement is based

is derived from the consideration of the varied relations of all

Ithe primary elements in the different forms of cranium, am

compelled, in this preliminary abstract, to refer those who are

desirous of weighing that evidence to what has been already

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  149

adduced with regard to the ethmoido-frontals, and to the
statements to be afterwards made in regard to the meta-

neurapophyses of the post-sphenoidal and temporal sclero

Itomes. In the meantime, shall confine myself to a general
Iexposition of the arrangement as regard it.

The anterior part of the body of the human sphenoid, and

the corresponding pre-sphenoidal piece in the Mammalia gene
rally, constitute an undoubted centrum, to which the lesser,

anterior, or orbito-sphenoidal wings, are the corresponding

neurapophyses.

     How far we may be entitled to assume the frequent
" triquetral " bones in the coronal suture in the human, and
in certain other mammalian crania, and the separately-de

Iveloped antlers of the giraffe, as indications of the missing
bone, remains to be determined.  would only observe at

present, that the great extent and permanency of the anterior

fontanelle appear to be connected with the deficiency in

question.

   I Ihave already stated that regard the so-called " principal

frontal " of the bird as the missing frontal of the mammal.
Distinguishing it as sphenoido-frontal, it is the divided meta-
neurapophysis corresponding to the feebly-developed " orbito-

sphenoids" which, bounding the optic and olfactory orifices,
constitute the neurapophyses, and to the so-called " ethmoid "

as the centrum of the pre-sphenoidal sclerotome. Assuming

Ifor the present the signification have attached to the " prin

Icipal frontals," and holding the neurapophyseal character of

the orbito-sphenoids as incontestable, would only add a few

remarks regarding the central element. The determination of

the "ethmoid" of the birds as the centrum of the pre-sphenoidal
segment of the cranium, while it does not require Professor

Owen's hypothesis of connation of this element with the cen

trum behind, presents the element under a form similar to

that exhibited bv the ethmoidal and vomerine centrums. It

150 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

resembles these in being an ossified portion of the primordial

axis of the cranium, in being flattened into a horizontal plate

at its upper margin, in extending down to the line of the base

of the skull, and in thus presenting a catacentric relation to

its neural arch. The passage of the anterior acuminated ex

tremity of the centrum behind beneath the lower margin of

      is
                                                                          it,
                                                                               is

                                                                                                                               ;
the pre-sphenoidal centrum, so as to support  merely an

example of that longitudinal obliquity in the setting of cranial

centrums against one another, which may be considered as the

rule rather than an exception. The posterior margin of the

bone  oblique from below upwards and forwards gives

attachment to the orbito-sphenoids, or to their membranous

neurapophyseal substitutes, which bound or give passage to

the orbital and olfactory nerves. The obliquity of this margin

of the bone corresponds with the similar obliquity of the fore

part of the basis of the brain of the bird, remarkable feature
in its configuration. The flattened upper edge of the bone may
                                    a
                                             is
                                                   is

                                                                                     ;
be more or less exposed on the upper surface of the cranium

and when the intermaxillaries, ethmoido- and sphenoido-

frontals are removed, this flattened margin   found to be

similar to and continuous with the flattened upper margin of

the ethmoidal and vomerine cartilaginous septum. The

anterior margin may be nearly perpendicular, but generally

oblique from below upwards and forwards, concave or concavo-

convex, sharp, and generally free, being connected to the

posterior margin of the ethmoidal cartilaginous septum by

membrane, thus permitting more or less, movement of the

upper mandible --that  of the combined ethmoidal and
                       is
                                 a
vomerine sclerotomes on the pre-sphenoidal.

    In the majority of birds laminar process projects out

wards and downwards from the lower and fore part of this

bone. This process, variously developed, forms, along with

the descending process of the lachrymal, the anterior wall of

the orbit, separating from the nasal space, and permitting
      it

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  151

the passage of the olfactory nerve through a notch or hole in
Iits upper edge.
                  regard this process on each side of the pre-

sphenoidal centrum as of the same nature as the process which

will be found projecting from each side of the lower part of

the ethmoidal septum or centrum, and which, abutting against

the descending process of the ethmoido-frontal, forms a wall

or rampart across the floor of the nasal passage, extending

nearly half-way up to its roof, immediately behind the ex

ternal nostril, thus converting that part of the nasal chamber

in front of it into a vestibule. This process is largely de

veloped in the ossified ethmoido-vomerine septum of the

hawks and owls.

   I would here observe that the " os en forme de cuiller " of

Cuvier, which he considers as the inferior turbinal of the

lizard, and which forms the fore part of the floor of the nostril

on each side, and the convex anterior part of which stretches

like a buttress across the cavity, between the septum and the

maxillary, immediately behind the external nostril, appears

to me to be, with its fellow of the opposite side, merely the

ossified lower portion of the ethmoidal centrum. These so-
called " cornets inferieurs " of the lizard form the floor, and

do not, therefore, project from the outer wall of the nasal

Ipassage in the manner of the inferior turbinals ; and believe

anatomists will, in reviewing the subject, admit that the in

ferior turbinal accompanies the fully-completed maxillary

arch, and only exists, therefore, in the mammal.

   I regard these lateral processes of the ethmoidal and pre-

sphenoidal centrums of the bird as homologous with the

pterygoid processes of the post-sphenoidal centrum, and

generally with those processes which, under various forms,

project downwards from the sides of the lower or luvmal

aspects of the occipital and succeeding centrums in certain
fish, or with those processes termed " hypopophyses" by

Professor Owen.

152  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OK

     Before dismissing the consideration of this important cen

Itrum in the bird, would direct attention to certain interesting

modifications which it may undergo. In the first place, it

may, like many other bones in the cranium of the bird, become
greatly dilated and altered in form by the development of
air-cells in its interior. The pneumatic openings are two in

number, one on each side of the anterior margin below the

superior horizontal plate. The pneumatic excavation and
dilatation extends backwards more or less in certain species ;
and in some owls the bone presents the form of a cubical
cellular mass. This peculiarity of form might be adduced in
support of Professor Owen's doctrine of the formation of this

bone from the coalescence of the pre-frontals ; but then it
will be observed that the increased breadth of the bone is not

due to incomplete mesial fusion of lateral parts, but to ex
pansion from the mesial plane, for the olfactory nerves still
run forwards in grooves on its lateral aspects, although these
may be deep in front, and posteriorly their margins may
overlap the nerves. The expansion of the pre-sphenoidal
centrum also produces a remarkable separation of the optic

Iforamina. As explanatory of this effect, would observe,

that the development of this bone in the chick shows that it
forms the posterior border of the common optic foramen by
means of a pair of processes which project from its posterior
inferior angle like the limbs of the letter Y. "When, therefore,

the bone takes on transverse dimension, the single optic chasm
separates into two optic foramina, which, in Strix flammed
are three-eighths of an inch asunder.

     The separation of the optic foramina from the pneumatic
expansion of the pre-sphenoidal centrum leads me, in the

second place, to observe, that the characteristic separation of
these orifices in the extinct forms Dodo, Dinornis, Palapteryx,
did not depend entirely on pneumatic expansion of the pre-
sphenoidal centrum, nor on such width of that bone as might

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.     153

be attributed to incomplete mesial fusion of a pair of " pre

frontals," but on the remarkable prolongation backwards on

each of its sides of the neurapophyseal walls of the ethmoidal

olfactory chambers.

Professor Owen, in his series of graphic and valuable

memoirs on these three extinct forms, and in his memoirs on

Apteryx, assuming the pre-frontal doctrine regarding the bone
in question, and directing special attention to the more or less

complete passage backwards of the nasal chambers to the an

terior or inferior wall of the cranial cavity, and to the passage

of the olfactory nerves into these by a number of orifices,

apparently recognises in Apteryx, for instance (although he

does not directly make the statement), a completed mammalian

ethmoid. Now, recalling attention again to the embryological

considerations from which the formation of neither the

mammalian ethmoidal septum, nor the so-called ethmoid of

the Ostrich, Dinornis, Dodo, nor Apteryx, can be conceived as
Iresulting from coalesced pre-frontals,
                                         would remark, that

the arrangement of the nasal fossae in Apteryx, instead of

being mammalian, presents the peculiar ornithic character of

its parts, fully brought out ; all the phases in the develop

ment of which may be observed in the series of birds. In all

birds, the posterior extremities of the cartilaginous pouchlike

ethmoido-neural, or olfactory chambers, approach or encroach

upon the sides of the pre- sphenoidal centrum ; so that the

membrane, which connects its anterior margin to the cartila

ginous nasal septum, and a certain extent of both its surfaces,

separates the two pouches from one another. The laminar or

hypopophyseal process on each side of the bone, variously

modified in form, limits, posteriorly and inferiorly, the olfactory

portion of the lateral surface of the bone, and, folded over the

pouch, walls it in more or less from below ; while the

lachrymal from above passes down on its outer side. The

gradual environment of the pouch may be traced in the series

154  OK THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

Iof birds ; and find in the Asiatic Cassowary, the stage imme

diately preceding the completion of the process in Apteryx.

In this bird, the pair of deep fossae in the interior of the skull,

which lodge the olfactory lobes, are separated from one an

other by the posterior margin of the pre-sphenoidal centrum,
which here represents the crista galli. The plate of bone which
forms the floor of each fossa, instead of being cribriform, as in

Apteryx, is perforated by a single star-like foramen, a form due

to the partial shooting across of bony processes from its margin.

    In the Chelonian. --The neural arch and centrum of the

chelonian are represented in the dry skull by the pair of
bones usually considered as the " proper frontals," but which

I regard as sphenoido-frontals. In the recent condition the

centrum appears in the form of a compressed cartilaginous
bar, continuous posteriorly with the compressed anterior part
of the post-sphenoidal centrum, resting below on the conjoined
pterygoids and ento-pterygoids, continuous in front with the

cartilaginous ethmoidal septum or centrum, and thus pre
senting all the relations of the pre-sphenoidal centrum of the

bird. It is continued upwards, and represents the orbito-

sphenoids, or neurapophyses, in the form of a double fibro

cartilaginous membrane, the two laminae of which separate to
unite with the posterior margins of the orbito-nasal processes of

the ethmoido-frontals, with the two parallel descending ridges
of the sphenoido-frontals, and with the anterior margins of the
peculiar descending processes of the so-called " parietals." The

olfactory nerves pass forwards between these neurapophyseal
laminae above ; and the optic, with the other orbital nerves,

perforates them.

    In the Crocodilian. --In the crocodiles, the sphenoido-

frontals have coalesced ; but the cartilaginous centrum and
neurapophyseal interorbital laminae present exactly the same
relations as in the chelonian ; the only difference being the
result of the union of the orbito-nasal processes of the

THE SKELETON OF TILE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  155

sphenoido-frontals near their lower extremities, and the con
sequent space left between this bony bridge and the deep
furrow formed by the inclined upper surfaces of the ento-
pterygoideal portions of the pterygoids.

    In the Laeertians. --In the lizards, the sphenoido-frontal
is again double. In consequence of the mesial separation of

the ento-pterygoids (" palatals ") and pterygoids, the elongated
fibro-cartilaginous centrum and neurapophyseal interorbital
laminae, are left unsupported below ; to which circumstance
is probably due the formation in the interorbital laminae of a
pair of delicate triradial osseous neurapophyses, which pass

off from the upper margins of the optic foramina.

    In the Ophidian and Batrachian.--Leaving the further

consideration of the special homology of the anterior sphenoidal
wing in the reptiles, and more especially in the crocodiles,
until the posterior sphenoidal wing, and the so-called "petrosal,''

Ihave been examined, would observe, that the grounds on

which Professor Owen distinguishes the "os en ceinture"
of the frog, from that segment in the python which includes
the so-called "frontals," appear to me somewhat arbitrary.
This segment in the serpent consists of a pair of neurapophyses,
or orbito-sphenoids, which are distinct, as cartilages at least,
in the embryo ; of a double meta-neurapophysis (sphenoido-
frontals), which not only occupy on each side the positions of the
neurapophyses, but extend the fore part of their inner margins
downwards, back to back, in the mesial plane, on the sides of
the compressed centrum ; which thus, along with them,
divides the neural chamber in front, for the transmission of
the olfactory nerves. The sides of the " os en ceinture " are
formed by neurapophyses ; while the so-called " frontals " of
the serpent occupy the greater part at least of the sides of
their segment ; in other respects, their relations are similar.
They are both catacentric ; the centrum, in both, resting, as
in the bird, on the upper surface of the anterior acuminated

156  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

extremity of the post-sphenoidal centrum, and in the plane of
Ithe ethmoidal centrum in front.
                                  regard, therefore, the
" os en ceinture " in the Batrachian, along with the anterior

segments of its " parieto-frontals," as consisting of the centrum,

neurapophyses, and meta-neurapophyses of the pre-sphenoidal

sclerotome ; and, therefore, also as homologous with that seg
ment in the ophidian which includes its "frontals," but

exclusive of the elongated anterior prolongation of the post-

sphenoidal centrum.

    The Pre-sphenoidal Centrum and Neural Arch in the Fish. --

The bone which predominates over every other in the cranium

of the fish is the so-called "principal frontal ;" which, how
Iever, as already stated,
                           do not regard as the frontal or

ethmoido-frontal of the mammal, but as a sphenoido-frontaL

It is the pre-sphenoidal meta-neurapophysis of the fish, pre

senting all the relations of the corresponding bone or bones in

the bird, chelonian, and lizard, except that the ethmoido-

frontals anterior to it have coalesced in the middle line ; while

the ethmoidal neurapophyses have become so much developed,

exposed, and connected to it laterally, as to assume the position
of the so-called "nasals" and "pre-frontals" in the bird and

reptile. The enormous development of this bone in the fish

and bird appears to depend on the great bulk of the organs of

visioa There therefore, in both, an extended interorbital

space to be filled up. In the fish, as in the bird, this vari
     is,
                                     a

                                                                      is
ously effected by means of fibro-cartilage and bone. The

extreme forms of the interorbital arrangement may be illus

trated by the gadoid and cyprinoid fishes. In the cod the

greater part of the so-called interorbital septum consists, as

in the chelonian and lizard, of double fibrous membrane,

which extends upwards from the anterior prolongation of the

post-sphenoidal centrum to the margins of the mesial grooves

on the under surface of the sphenoido-frontal. The two

laminae of this membrane thus bound the sides of the

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                    157

compressed neural space, along the upper part of which the
olfactory nerves pass forward. In the posterior superior

part of each of these neurapophyseal fibrous laminae, a com

paratively small plate of bone is developed, while the centrum
consists of the bar of persistent cartilage, which extends along
the grooved upper surface of the anterior portion of the post-

sphenoidal centrum, and terminates above the ethmoidal cen

trum (" vomer                                 The optic nerves pierce the membranes so
("
    afar back as to notch very deeply the anterior margins of the

                                  ;post-sphenoidal neurapophyses, or post-sphenoidal wings.

                            ").In the carp, again, the interorbital space occupied above
                                   "),              is

                                             ;                                               ;
by considerable descent of the margins of the sphenoido-

frontal groove in front, by complete ossification of the fibrous

membranes, which thus become pre-sphenoidal neurapophyses

behind, by the passage forwards of the post-sphenoidal wings

ali-sphenoids                                 through which, during development, the

optic nerves have passed back, to be lodged in notches in their

posterior margins and below, by the bar of semi-ossified

cartilage situated upon the upper surfaces of the posterior

sphenoidal and ethmoidal centrums.

Of the Hccmal Arch and Hcemactinapophyses           of  the Pre-
sphenoidal Sclerotome. --The palatine arch, between which and

the mandibular the mouth                        is  situated, and which terminates

therefore posteriorly the prestomal series of haemal arches,
may be presumed to undergo very varied modifications in

connection with the olfactory, the respiratory, and the digestive

functions. In the present instance, as in many others, the

anatomy of the human body, instead of leading astray by

complexity and extreme modification of its parts, supplies the

key for their morphological solution, by affording an example

of the employment of the fundamental type of structure for the

fulfilment of the most complex functional purposes.

The human pre-sphenoidal centrum, hollowed out by nasal

air-cells, as in certain birds, bounded below and in front by
                                                is

 158 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

 a pair of separate triangular-curved bony plates, which,
 limiting the size of the right and left pneumatic orifices, brings
 these into communication with the posterior ethmoidal air-cells
 or sinuses. These " sphenoidal turbinated bones," or " bones
 of Bertin," in contact along their outer margins, and outer part
 of their inferior aspects, with the sphenoidal processes of the

 palate-bones, constitute the upper elements or suspensory
 extremities of the inverted arch, completed by the meeting of
the palate-bones themselves in the posterior part of the mesial
line of the palatal vault. The right and left pterygoids are
attached, as a pair of actinapophyses, to this arch. They pass
off backwards and outwards from the posterior margins of the

perpendicular plates of the palate-bones, and abut in the
embryo against the upper and fore part of the mandibular
arch, retaining in the tympanic processes of their adult
form indications of their early connection with that arch.
The most important secondary connection of the pterygoids
in the human adult is with the pterygoid processes of the
post-sphenoid ; and it is this sphenoidal connection which is
most frequently repeated in the animal series.

   I shall not enter at present into the question of the

probable existence of "bones of Bertin" in the Mammalia
generally ; nor inquire whether the separate orbital pieces of
the palate-bones in the herbivorous Cetacea, according to
Cuvier, and the separate anterior portions of the pterygoids
of the young dolphin, as described by Meckel and Eapp, may
be indications of the upper elements of the palatal arch ; but
pass on to the consideration of the palatal arch in the lower
Vertebrata, in which the two elements of which it appears to
consist on each side are distinctly developed.

    The Palatal Arch and Pterygoids in the Bird. --The bone

hitherto considered by all anatomists as the vomer of the bird,
is a more or less elongated narrow plate, the margins of which
are bent upwards so as to convert its upper surface into a

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAR.  159

groove, which is applied against the under surface of the
acuminated anterior extremity of the post-sphenoidal centrum,
which is therefore interposed between it and the pre-sphenoidal
centrum. This bone, more or less compressed or extended

laterally, separates the posterior nostrils from one another.

Its anterior extremity reaches the anterior limits of these
orifices, or, passing forwards into the palate between the

ethmoidal neurapophyseal and maxillary palatal laminae, and
concealed more or less by them, may terminate on the surface
of the palate between the intermaxillary palatal plates. When
this bone is much compressed it is single throughout ; when
flattened, it is more or less extensively divided in the

mesial line.

     The palate-bones of the bird, more or less elongated,
extend anteriorly under the maxillary palatal laminae, to
which in general they are only slightly connected, forward to
the intermaxillary palate-plates, with which they are anchylosed
or articulated, separated from one another in front, to form the
lateral boundaries of the posterior nares, the palate-bones
become broader posteriorly, approach one another, and are
either attached to, or anchylosed with, the posterior extremity
of the so-called "vomer." Their posterior extremities are
provided with facets for articulation with the bar-like ptery
goids, which extend from them, outwards and backwards, to
articulate with the quadrate bone on each side. The pterygoids
of certain birds have also secondary connections ; they
articulate with processes which project from the post-sphenoidal
centrum in some part of its extent ; and on which their shafts

glide, rotate, or vibrate.
      The reciprocal relations of the so-called "vomer," the

palatines, and pterygoids of the bird, are extremely interesting

Iand important. At present, can only direct attention to

those relations which bear upon my subject. When the
palate-bones are greatly developed, the " vomer " diminishes.

160  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

When, again, the " vomer " is much developed, the palatines

are in an atrophied condition. The pterygoids present phases
of development dependent on the variations of the palatines
and pterygoids. The two extremes may be observed in the

parrots and the struthious birds. In the former, the palatines

are enormously developed, while the "vomer" has disap

peared. In the latter, the " vomer " is greatly elongated and

developed, while the palatines present the relation, and ex
hibit the form, of the " transverse" or " adgustal " bones of

the reptile.

     The Palatal Arch and the. Pterygoids in Beptiles and
Amphibians. --The three bones on each side, which form the
palatal system of the ordinary lizard, present the same

relations, and almost the same form, as the "vomer," palatines,
and pterygoids of the struthious birds. The pterygoids are

in every respect similar. The " transverse bones " of the
lizard are also, in relations and almost in form, like the

palatines of these birds. The so-called "palatals" of the
lizard, while they exhibit all those relations to the "transverse"

and pterygoids, which the "vomer" of the bird presents,
differ from that double bone in this respect, that although in

contact at the mesial line, they are comparatively so much

broader, occupying so much of the comparatively narrow
palatal space that they touch the maxillaries by their anterior
external angles. They bound, therefore, the internal nares
posteriorly ; but, like the so-called vomer in the bird, separate
them from one another, passing forward like that double bone

to the ethmoidal neurapophyseal plates, which constitute the

so-called " vomer " of the lizard. In the monitors, these so-

called " palatines," like the pterygoids, are evidently separated
in the middle line, and forced backwards along the inner
margin of the maxillary towards the transverse bones, by the

development and elongation of the ethmoidal neurapophyseal

elements. In the crocodiles, again, the full development of

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBEATE HEAD.   161

maxillary palatal plates, and more especially of the ethmoidal

neurapophyses, has forced backwards and towards the middle
line, not only the bone called " palatal " in the lizard, but also

the pterygoids ; and as the latter also exhibit that remarkable

tubular development, various phases of which are perceptible

in the Chelonians, Birds, and Mammalia, the former again

presents the ornithic vomerine aspect.

    In the Ophidia the two halves of the palatal system are

widely separated at the middle line. The so-called "palatals,"

elongated forwards into the ethmoidal region, articulated by

ascending processes to the pre-sphenoid, slightly attached

externally to the maxillaries, as in the lizards, bound as in

these reptiles, the nostrils posteriorly, but do not separate

them mesially.

    In the frog, the so-called " palatals " extend transversely

outwards from the " os en ceinture " to the mamillaries, being

also connected at their outer extremities with the pterygoids.

The latter are articulated posteriorly to the post-sphenoid and
to the quadrate bone. The " os transversum " has disappeared

at the junction of the so-called palatal, pterygoid, and maxillary.
     The modifications presented by these bones in reptiles and

Amphibia are much too numerous to be followed in detail at
Ipresent.
           have therefore selected those which are essential

for the elucidation of my subject ; and shall sum up the con

Iclusions draw from them, by a comparison of them with the

corresponding elements in chelonians.

The chelonians, we are told, have no "transverse bone."

They are distinguished in this respect from all the other

reptiles. But if we examine the skull of a tortoise, we shall

find all the elements which enter into the formation of the

palatine aspect in that of the crocodile. In front are the

intermaxillaries, immediately behind which, in the median

line, is the double bony plate, which is usually described and
figured as the fore part of the so-called " vomer," but to which

           M

162        ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

I have already directed attention as the combined ethmoidal

neurapophyseal elements. In the turtles the maxillaries meet

across the palatal vault in front of the united ethmoidal

neurapophyses, so that the latter are pushed backwards, and

are in contact laterally with the palatals in the vault of the

palate ; while in the tortoise the latter want entirely the

palatal processes, consisting, as Cuvier expressed                             only of
           a
                              a
                                                       a

                                                                          it,
their upper portions, and extending outwards on each side from
the outer margins of the so-called " vomer," and of the ptery

goids, to the inner margins of the maxillaries. Now, let the base

of the skull of tortoise, turtle, and crocodile, be examined

side by side. In all three we shall find the intermaxillaries

in front. The maxillaries, although they do not meet across

the palate of the tortoise, do so in that of the turtle, and thus,

as in the crocodile, boivnd posteriorly the intermaxillary

segment of the palate. The transverse union of the maxillaries,
in the turtle and crocodile, pushes back the ethmoidal

neurapophyses (which are in contact with the intermaxillaries
in the tortoise), but to such an extent in the crocodile that

the ethmoidal neurapophyses, also themselves much elongated,

carry back the pterygoids, so that the latter almost entirely

conceal the post-sphenoidal centrum. The outer margins of

the pterygoids, already curved downwards in the tortoise and

turtle, pass downwards and inwards in the crocodile, so as to

meet again in the mesial line of the palatal vault. The bony

septum of the pterygo-ethmoidal portion of the nostrils of the

crocodile  at the same time seen to be the result of the
           is

                             ;

                      if

                                                                                a

                                                                         if
extension downwards in the mesial plane of the middle ridge
of the so-called " vomer " of the tortoise or turtle, and of the

connection of the anterior part of that double bone with the

ethmoidal neurapophyses. It will thus be observed, that

the maxillaries of the tortoise were united across the palate,

in front of its ethmoidal neurapophyses, to considerable

extent backwards  the ethmoidal neurapophyses were also

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAT).                            163

elongated in the same direction ; and if the outer margins of

the pterygoids, below the palatines, were to meet in the mesial

line, the latter would be forced backwards and outwards ; so

that, still retaining their connections with the pterygoids and
maxillaries, but leaving those with the " vomer " in front and
internally to abut against the malar behind and externally --

the palatal aspect of the skull of the tortoise would present

the arrangement of the corresponding region in that of the

crocodile, the palate-bones assuming the form and relations
of " transverse bones."

   If to the skulls of the tortoise, turtle, and crocodile, those

of a serpent, a lizard, a frog, and an ostrich be added, it
will be observed that the palate-bones have disappeared in

the frog ; that they have assumed the form and relations of
" transverse bones " in the lizard, crocodile, and serpent ,
that they are essentially " transverse bones " in the struthious

bird, while in the tortoise, but especially in the turtle, they

present the mammalian  character and form. It will also be
of
                                                    (?)observed, that the bones in the turtle, tortoise, crocodde, and
                                                              a
bird, hitherto denominated "vomer," are the same bones

which in the frog, lizard, and serpent, are named "palatals,"
the term " vomer " being applied in these animals to those two

bones collectively, which are situated under the ethmoidal

portion of the skull. It will also be noted that the bones

called "vomer" in the* crocodile and bird, and the bones
called " palatals " in the frog, lizard, and serpent, are related

to the others, along with which they have been examined,
exactly as the " bones of Bertin," in the human cranium, are to

the palate-bones and pterygoids.

 The Prc-sphenoidal JTmmal Arch and ffwrnactinapophysis

lIk, Fish. --In the osseous fish fibrous membrane extends

outwards and downwards on each side from the suborbital bar

    * In the annotated copy the words turtle and tortoise, which appeared in
the original memoir, were deleted. -- (Eds.)

164  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

like portion of the basis of the cranium. In most fishes there
will be found in this membrane, where it passes off from the

pre-sphenoidal portion of the cranium, a more or less elongated
scale-like bone on each side. This is the " pterygo-idien
interne " of Cuvier, the " heriss^al " of St. Hilaire, the " ento-

pterygoid" of Professor Owen. The palate-bone, connected
by the same fibrous membrane to the outer margin of the
ento-pterygoid, extends forwards to the side of the so-called
" vomer," or to the ethmoidal centrum and neurapophysis, to
which, as also to the maxillary and intermaxillary, it is
variously attached directly and indirectly. The corresponding
actinapophyseal element or pterygoid in the fish is firmly
connected in front to the palate-bone, and less intimately to

the ento-pterygoid, and, extending backwards, downwards, and
outwards, abuts against the anterior margin of the " hypo-
tympanic " and " pre-tympanic " bones, as the pterygoid of the
bird and reptile does against the so-called "quadrate," or

" tympanic " bone. If, then, the basal aspect of the cranium
of the osseous fish is placed in series with those of the bird,
lizard, serpent, tortoise, and frog, it will be observed, that
while its palatals and pterygoids may be at once associated
with the corresponding bones, as already determined, in the
bird and reptile, the ento-pterygoid of the fish presents all
the relation of the double bone, usually called " vomer * in the
bird ; of the posterior or horizontal portion of the bone called
" vomer " in the tortoise ; and of the bones called " palatals "

in the lizard, serpent, and frog. It will also be observed, that

while the toothed bone, called " vomer " in the fish, has, from

a catacentric change, disappeared from the under aspect of the
cranium in the bird, reptile, and batrachian, the two bones,

called in the fish " pre-frontals "--its ethmoidal neurapophyses
--present the same relations to its ento-pterygoids as the

ethmoidal neurapophyses of the bird to its so called " vomer,"
and as those of the tortoise to the posterior portion of its so

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  165

called " vomer," and as those of the lizard, serpent, and frog to

Ithe bones hitherto called " palatal " in these three forms.

therefore apply provisionally the term ento-pterygoid to the
so-called " vomer " of the hird, to the posterior part of the so-
called " vomer " of the chelonian, to the corresponding bony
piece in the crocodiles, to the so-called "palatals" of the
ophidian, lacertian, and batrachian, to the " bones of Bertin,"
and their representatives in the mammal

     The Constitution of the Nasal Fossm, and the Relative Posi

tions of the External and Internal Nares. --The details necessary

for the morphological examination of the rhinal, vomerine,

ethmoidal, and pre-sphenoidal sclerotomes, have involved a
number of facts connected with the varied constitution of the
nasal fossae in the different vertebrate forms. As, however,

the constitution of these fossae has important bearings on the

Imorphology of the entire cranium, shall briefly direct atten

tion to the subject.
     The only perfect form of nasal fossae is that presented by

the mammal. They consist of the entire neuro-haemal cavities
of the rhinal and vomerine, combined with the haemal cavities

of the ethmoidal and pre-sphenoidal sclerotomes. That portion
of the combined nasal fossae which consists of the cavities of
the rhinal and vomerine sclerotomes, is divided in the mesial

plane by the centrums of those sclerotomes ; while the
dependent portion of the ethmoidal centrum, and the posterior
portion of the vomerine centrum, divide in the same manner
that part of the combined fossae which consists of the haemal
cavities of the ethmoidal and pre-sphenoidal sclerotomes. The
mammalian nasal fossae are therefore bounded in front by the
walls of the neuro-haemal chambers of two catacentric sclero

tomes ; and posteriorly by the catacentrically divided haemal
chambers of a demicatacentric and diacentric sclerotome.

     As the haemal portions of the cephalic somatomes are
separated from one another in their early embryo condition by

166 ON THE MORI'HOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

metasomatoinic clefts, we may expect to find traces of these
clefts in the walls of the adult nasal fossae.

     The first or anterior pair of metasomatomic clefts of the
embryo head, that is the clefts between the rhinal and inter
maxillary lobe of the " median frontal process," are retained
in the adult as the external nares. These openings in the
non-proboscidian mammal, are situated therefore between the

ali-nasal cartilages and the intermaxillary bones. In the pro

boscidian mammals, they are probably situated between the
ultimate and penultimate, or, at least, between two of the
distal somatomes of the proboscis.

     The second pair of metasomatomic clefts, situated between
the external angles of the median frontal process and the
lateral frontal processes, may disappear entirely in the course
of development ; but they occasionally remain under the form
of Stenson's ducts, which pass obliquely through the so-called
" incisive spaces," or " foramina," from the mouth to the nasal
fossae, between the intermaxillaries and maxillaries. The
mucous walls of the canals of Stenson are supported by
cartilaginous tubular folds, which are continuous superiorly
with cartilaginous laminae, which, passing off laterally from
the lower margin of the nasal septum and vomer, cover more
or less of the floor of the nasal fossa), upper part of the incisive
fissures, and spaces between the intermaxillaries and maxilla
ries. The " organs " or " sacs of Jacobson," supplied by the
olfactory and fifth nerves, lined by glandular integument,
sheathed by a continuation of the cartilaginous laminae
already alluded to, and opening into the canals of Stenson,
when these arc present, are, whatever their function may be,
 morphologically connected with the second pair of meta
 somatomic clefts.

      The next pair of metasomatomic clefts, situated between
 the lateral frontal processes and the so-called " superior
 maxillary " deflection of the " first visceral lamina," con

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  167

tiuue pervious in all the Mammalia except the Cetacea. The
lachrymal canals which connect the anterior pouches of the
conjunctivae with the nasal fossae, consist of the persistent
upper portions of these clefts. Their outer or lower portions
are obliterated, but the corresponding inter-scleratomic space,
much dilated, constitutes that part of the orbit formed by
elements of the ethmoidal and pre-sphenoidal sclerotomes,
while the spheno-palatine and posterior palatine foramina and
fissures are also enclosed portions of the space between these
two sclerotomes, retained for the passage of vessels and nerves.

      The posterior nares are not meta-somatomic openings, they
are merely the communications between the catacentric haemal
space of the pre-sphenoidal, and the corresponding but un
divided haemal spaces of the succeeding somatomes.

     The mouth is the persistent and developed form of the

great cleft between the pre- and post-sphenoidal somatomes.

It is situated therefore morphologically in the same transverse

plane as the posterior nares. Its fundamental or morpho

logical relations are retained and represented by the posterior
isthmus of the fauces. The buccal chamber is a vestibule

superadded to the alimentary tube, by the anterior elongation
of the lower jaw, and by the development of the floor of the
mouth and of the tongue, with the consequent inclusion of
the vault of the palate ; so that the latter, instead of forming
the anterior portion of the haemal or sternal aspect of the head,
becomes apparently a portion of the wall of the visceral tube.

     The complete development of the vomer, characteristic, as
already stated, of the mammalian head, is also a characteristic
feature of the nasal fossae in the mammal. As the centrum of
that sclerotome, of which the intermaxillaries are the haema-
pophyses, it extends back from them to abut against the pre-
sphenoidal centrum, forming a beam which adds to the antero
posterior strength of the entire arrangement, and wliicli
supports the more feebly-developed ethmoidal and rhinal

168  ON THE MOIU'HOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

portions of the nasal septum. All these relations of the

vomer are retained in the remarkably-modified nasal passages
and snout in the Cetacea.

     The seat of the olfactory sense is limited to the upper part
of the ethmoidal portion of the nasal fossae. However com
plex the arrangement of the ethmoidal turbinal laminae may
be, they invariably present the general character of folded
laminar neuractinapophyses, connected to their corresponding
neurapophyses, after the type of the cartilaginous sessile
olfactory cups in the plagiostomes.

     As already stated, the so-called inferior turbinals consist
of an antero-posteriorly arranged series or system of mutually

abutting haemactinapophyses, enclosed during development
within the nasal fossae. The inferior turbinal system is
peculiar to the mammal, and consists of elements which, in
developed forms of the system, are derived from, and attached
to, the rhinal, vomerine, and ethmoidal haemapophyses. The

palate-bone, or distal pre-sphenoidal haemapophysis, supports

Ithe posterior extremity of the turbinal system, but have not

had occasion to observe any turbinal element supplied by it.
     As the rhinal sclerotome has disappeared in the bird, the

neuro-haemal chambers of the vomerine sclerotome become

closed in front, and the external nostrils are supplied by those

metasomatomic clefts between the vomerine and ethmoidal
sclerotomes, which in the mammal form the "incisive
foramina," the " canals of Stenson," and the " organs of

 Jacobson."

     As the anterior nares are removed one somatome back in

 the birth so the posterior nares are removed one somatome for
 wards. They are situated between the maxillary and incom
 plete palatine arches, theento-pterygoids separating them, while
 the palatines are on their outer sides. The posterior nares,
 instead of being directed backwards in a plane at right angles
to the axis of the alimentary tube, open downwards in the

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEISRATE HEAD.                                  169

plane of its upper wall. This direction of the posterior nares
is due to the following circumstances :-- 1. That the inter-

maxillaries, although completing their arch below, are

principally developed upwards and backwards ; 2. That the

maxillaries, even when they meet partially across the middle

line, have the space which they enclose occupied by the

neurapophyses, centrum, and sense-capsules of their own
sclerotome -- in other words, they are in contact with the

central and neurapophyseal aspect of their own sclerotome ;

3. That the palatines do not form an arch at all, but He in

the horizontal plane of the under surfaces of the centrums of

the cephalic sclerotomes behind them.

The bird, in fact, does not possess nasal fossae in the same
sense as the mammal --that
                             is,

                                it

                                                                    a
                                       does not present nasal

chambers, formed by the completed haemal arches of certain
number of sclerotomes. Its nasal fossae consist only of the

catacentric-haemal or neuro-haemal spaces of the vomerine
sclerotome, and of the combined neural and " sense-capstde "

spaces of the ethmoidal sclerotome, which occupy the space

enclosed by its haemal arch. They differ therefore from the

mammalian nasal fossae, not only in wanting rhinal compart

ments, but also in the deficiency of ethmoidal and pre-

sphenoidal haemal spaces. The palate of the bird, instead of

being, like that of the mammal, situated in plane inferior
                                       a
                                                           is
and parallel to that in which the vertebral column lies (?), in

the plane of the latter, like that of the fish. The palate of the

fish in the horizontal plane of the vertebral column, because
is

                          ;
its nasal foss<e are absent, the constituent haemal arches being

^11 incomplete and because the cavities of its olfactoryis
capsules open externally. The palate of the bird in the

horizontal plane of the vertebral column for reasons already

stated, and also because the olfactory capsules, instead of

being situated external to the cavities of their sclerotome, as

in the fish, or in its haemal cavity, as in the mammal, have

170     ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

if

                            is
                                    a
                                                                                   a

                                                                                             of,
                                                                                                              ;

                                                                      if

                                                                                                      is
become involved in, or have taken the place       its neural

chamber, and have therefore their inner orifices or posterior

nares directed downwards, on the central aspect.

     The mode in which the walls and cavities of the olfactory-

capsules of the bird become involved or lost in its ethmoidal

neural chamber and walls, may be morphologically conceived,

the structure compared with the corresponding segment

of the cranium of ray. The cranium of the plagiostome
modelled on the form of the " primordial cranium " of the

mammal and bird. The laterally projecting sessile cartila

ginous olfactory cups communicate each by wide orifice with
Ifthe cranial cavity.
                        the orifices be conceived as much en

larged, and the walls of the capsules as withdrawn into, or

becoming continuous with, those of the cranium or the

latter be conceived as disappearing, while the former take

their places, the general arrangement of the ethmoidal section
of the persistent " primordial cranium " of the ray will be

seen to be similar to that sclerotome in the bird's skull which

retains most of the primordial character. The development

of the imperfect maxillaries in contact with the lower aspect of

the slightly-ossified inferior wall of the combined capsular

and neural mass, and the formation of the ethmoido-frontals

in the perichondrium which covers its upper surface, would

reduce the entire arrangement to the type of the correspond

ing parts in the bird.

     By similar process, the sessile cartilaginous auditory
     a

capsules of the cyclostome may be conceived to become buried
in the temporal portions of the cranial wall in the plagiostome,

while in the osseous fish, after the primordial cranium has

become enveloped in the bony plates, which are formed in its

substance and in its fibrous covering, the auditory capsules

pass into the cranial cavity, having been enclosed by the

neurapophyseal and meta-neurapophyseal bony pieces of their

own and neighbouring sclerotomes.

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                          171

     The external nostrils of the lacertian, ophidian, and am"),
phibian, are situated, as in the bird, between the vomerinea
and ethmoidal sclerotomes ; the intermaxillaries being closed
isin front and below. The so-called nasal fossae in these verte

brate forms are also, as in the bird, merely olfactory chambers,
occupying the neural space of the ethmoidal sclerotome. The
posterior nares, too, open as in the bird, between the eth
moidal and pre-sphenoidal sclerotomes, but with the follow

ing subordinate differences :-- In the lizard they are separated

by the anterior extremities of the ento-pterygoids, and are
bounded behind by the maxillary processes of these bones,

and externally by the maxillaries themselves. In the ophidian

they are separated by the free margin of the ethmoidal cata-
centric plates ; anteriorly by the posterior margins of the eth

moidal neurapophyses, externally by the anterior projecting

portions of the ento-pterygoids, and behind by the pre-

sphenoidal attachments of the latter. In the frog they open

between the ethmoidal neurapophyses ("vomer"), the ento-

pterygoids (" palatals and the maxillaries.
      We again approach the mammalian type of nasal fossae,

 through the tortoises, turtles, and crocodiles.

     It has been already stated that the anterior nostrils of the

 Chelonian appear to possess more of the ornithic than mam
 malian conformation. The primordial cartilaginous lining of
 the olfactory fossae projects in some turtles through the an
 terior nasal opening of the cranium in the form of double
 proboscis. The posterior nares in the tortoises are separated
 by the combined ento-pterygoids (upper and back part of the
 " vomer"), and are bounded by the maxillaries and the pala
 tines, the latter remaining open or ununited across the vault
 of the palate. In the turtles, the vault of the palate and the
 posterior nares present more of the mammalian aspect,
 although still formed essentially on the type of the corre
 sponding parts in the bird. This effected by the ethmoidal

172  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

neurapophyseal plates (palatal plate of the " vomer") which
lie somewhat above the level of the vault of the palate in the
tortoises, passing down into, and forming an area of it in the

turtles, extending from its posterior margin half-way, or quite

up to the intermaxillary palate-plates. In the latter arrange

ment the ethmoidal area is hexagonal, and separates the

palatal plates of the maxillaries from one another. In the
former it is pentagonal ; and the palatal maxillary plates
meet in the mesial line in front of it. The palatal plates of

the palatines are more or less developed in the turtles ; and
many approach one another at the free margin of the vault,
but are always separated by the posterior or free margin of

the ethmoidal area.

     The arrangement of the vault of the palate in the turtles,
and the peculiar chelonian configuration of the pterygoids,
lead to the very remarkable combination of ornithic and

mammalian structure presented by the nasal fossae and palatal
vault of the crocodiles. The mammalian characteristics are
the full development of the intermaxillary and nasal bones,
with the extensive, although cartilaginous, vomer. The
vomerine sclerotome of the crocodile is not closed anteriorly
as in all the other lacertians, in the ophidians, amphibians,
and birds, but presents a completely perforated catacentric
arrangement. This complete form of the vomerine necessitates
a rhinal sclerotome, which, accordingly, feebly represented in

the crocodiles and alligators, appears to be more fully de
veloped in the gavials. The extensive and complete croco
dilian palatal vault is only apparently mammalian, it is par
tially ornithic or chelonian in its constitution. As in the
mammal, the anterior extremity of the vault is formed by the
pair of fully formed palatal inter-maxillary plates. Except
in the alligators, in which there is a slight intrusion of the
ento-pterygoids, the palatal plates of the maxillaries, meeting

along the mesial line, form the second and most extensive

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAT).  173

area of the palatal vault. The next area of the vault consists,
as in the turtles, of the ethmoidal neurapophyses (the so-
called "palatals"), united along the mesial line, and much
elongated backwards. The posterior margin of the combined
ethmoidal neurapophyses of the turtle forms the central part
of the free margin of the palate ; but the completion in the
crocodile of the deflected outer margin and central ridge of
the pterygoids into a double tube, or pterygoidean prolonga
tion backwards of the nasal fossae, produces a corresponding
elongation of the palatal vault, which accordingly presents,

behind its ethmoidal, an extensive and broad pterygoidean
area, which thus completes the vault behind, as in certain
Cetacea and Edentata. The great elongation backwards of

the combined maxillary palatal plates, the corresponding
elongation of the combined ethmoidal neurapophyses, and the
great breadth of the pterygoidean area, have displaced the

palate-bones so far backwards and outwards, that, separated

from the ento-pterygoids and the ethmoidal neurapophyses by
a wide chasm, but retaining their connections with the maxil-
laries and pterygoids, and coming into contact with the malar,
they are, in fact, extruded from the walls of the nasal fossae,

 and from the palatal vault, and, thus disguised, have been
 hitherto known only as " transverse bones," " adgustal bones,"
 " pterygoides externes," " ecto-pterygoids."

     The Nasal Passage of the Cyclostomous Fishes. --The cyclo-

 stomes differ from all other fishes in possessing a tubular

 passage, which, opening externally above the oral disk, passes

 backwards to the combined olfactory capsules, and behind
 which it terminates in a cul-de-sac in the lamprey, but in the
 myxine and bdellostoma communicates with the alimentary

 and respiratory tract.
       The form and arrangement of the cartilages, which enter

 into the formation of the walls of this tubular passage, have
 been figured and minutely described in the classical memoirs

174  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

of Job. Miiller, on the " Cyclostomous Fishes." It becomes

a point of much interest to ascertain the morphological cha
racter of this tubular passage, and to determine the morpho
logical relations of its cartilagiDOus elements.

      The olfactory capsules of the myxine, bdellostoma, and
lamprey, are completely fused into one another at the mesial

plane, so as to form a single chamber, situated immediately
in front of, and in a line with, the cranial cavity. The
common olfactory chamber communicates with the cranial
cavity by two orifices perforated in the fibro-cartilaginous
transverse septum, for the passage forwards of the olfactory

nerves. The olfactory chamber opens below into the naso

pharyngeal passage. In the lamprey this passage is mem

branous throughout, the portion in front of the olfactory
chamber lying above the posterior superior oral shield ; its

posterior portion passing back between the base of the

cranium and the central part of the palatal cartilage, ter

minates in a cul-desac at its pharyngeal extremity. In the

myxine and bdellostoma the posterior portion of the passage
is a membranous canal situated between the base of the

cranium and the mesial palatal cartilage, and opens posteriorly
into the pharynx. That portion of the naso-pharyngeal
passage in front of the olfactory chamber is supported above
and laterally by a series of ten cartilaginous rings, incom

plete below -- the entire arrangement closely resembHng a
mammalian trachea. The membranous floor of this part of
the passage is supported by the anterior portion of the central,

and the transverse junction of the lateral palatal cartilages,
and in front by the mesial and transverse superior oral

cartilages.
     The morphological constitution of this remarkable nasal

skeleton appears to be similar to that of the nasal fossa? of
the higher Vcrtebrata, The olfactory capsules have passed
inwards, as in the bird and reptile, so that, instead of pro

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  175

jecting from the sides of the cranium, like the auditory
capsules, they occupy the space of the corresponding cranial
segment. The incomplete cartilaginous rings of the nasal
tube, viewed in their relations to the cranium and conjoined
olfactory capsules, are in the position of a superadded series
of neural arches, similar to the neural portions of the rhinal

and vomerine mammalian sclerotomes, destitute, however, of

centrums, but supported below by the peculiarly-developed
palatine and maxillary elements which have passed forward
beneath them. The entire arrangement presents the general
characters, or is developed on the plan of the nasal fossae of
the reptile, bird, and mammal, with the additional peculiarity
of an increase in the number of constituent segments, similar
to that which apparently exists in the proboscidian mammals.

    Post-stomal Cephalic Sclerotomes. -- Their Central and
Neural Elements.--As the discrimination of the constituent

central and neural elements of the three post-stomal segments

Iof the skull demands a constant reference from the one seg

ment to the other, shall examine them together. Of these
three segments--the post-sphenoidal, the temporal, and the
occipital--the second has not hitherto been recognised except
by Carus, whose system includes a temporal intervertebra.

     My attention was directed to the temporal segment of the
cranium by the remarkable indications of it presented by the
human skull. The human occipital bone, in addition to that
upper angular portion of its squamous plate, which presents
the relations of the interparietal, exhibits all the character
istics of a vertebral centrum, in combination with neura- and

meta-neurapophyses. The inferior articular processes of this
cranial segment are largely developed, in relation to the atlas.
But it has not been hitherto noted, that the so-called jugular
processes are in fact its upper or anterior pair of articular

processes ; and that, consequently, the jugular processes on
the posterior margins of the petrosal portions of the temporals

176  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

must be the zygopophyses of the succeeding cranial segment.
These occipital and temporal jugular articular processes, like
the corresponding processes in the column below, present
distinct cartilaginous articular facets, and are contiguous to
the "foramina lacera posteriora" or "intervertebral fora

mina," formed by the conjunction of the temporal and
occipital jugular fossae, and which transmit, as in the spine,
vessels and nerves. But the petrous portion of the human
temporal bone has, in addition, a pair of distinct pro-zygo-
pophyses. They are situated on the anterior margins of the
petrous portions, where these margins form the angles with
the squamous portions, in which are situated the openings of
the Eustachian tubes. The articular surfaces of these pro

cesses are perpendicularly striated, and are applied against
corresponding surfaces of the so-called styloid processes of

the sphenoid at the posterior angles of its great wings.   These
" styloid processes " are therefore the zygopophyses      of the
post-sphenoidal sclerotome. The pro-zygopophyses          of the

post-sphenoidal and the zygopophyses of the pre-sphenoidal
may be observed at the fore part of the pterygopalatine groove
in the foetal bone, but are more remarkably developed in the
young ruminant ; in which also may be observed the zygo-
pophyseal connection of the pre-sphenoidal with the ethmoidal

neurapophyses.

     We have, therefore, in these zygopophyseal connections
distinct evidence of five cranial segments-- an ethmoidal, pre-

sphenoidal, post-sphenoidal, temporal, and occipital --in addi

tion to the vomerine and rhinal.

     For the further development of this subject, the cranium
Ifof a cyprinoid fish should next be selected.
                                                the lateral

wall of the cranium be examined, either from the external or

mesial aspect, five serially-arranged neurapophyseal plates

will be recognised, connected to one another by four distinct

zygopophyseal articulations. These plates are, from before

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.        177

backwards, the so-called " pre-frontal," the " cranial ethmoid,"
the " orbito-sphenoid " of Owen, the " ali-sphenoid " of Owen,
Iand the lateral occipital.
                             have already stated the grounds
Ion which believe we must look upon the " pre-frontals " of

the fish as the neurapophyses of the ethmoidal, and the
" cranial ethmoid," as the combined neurapophyses of the pre-
Ifsphenoidal neural arches.
                             so, then the succeeding plate
must be the " ali-sphenoid," and not the " orbito-sphenoid," as

Professor Owen considers it to be ; and therefore, as there

has never been a question regarding the lateral occipital, the

plate interposed between the latter and the former, as it has

all the characters of a neurapophysis, indicates the existence

of a cranial segment between the post^sphenoidal and oc
Icipital.
           shall not at present allude to the various opinions

entertained regarding this plate, but shall merely distinguish

it as the inferior temporal neurapophysis.

     Proceeding now to the consideration of the centrums cor
responding to this series of neurapophyses, it must be ob

served that in no osseous fish in any stage of development have

more than three osseous pieces been observed in the basis of
the cranium from the so-called " vomer" to the " basi-occipital"
included. The assumed " connation " of the centrums of the

pre- and post-sphenoids, as held by Professor Owen, has at

present no support from embryology ; the missing centrum or

centrums must therefore be accounted for otherwise than by a
hypothetical division of the " basi-sphenoid." Professor Owen

appears, indeed, to a certain extent to admit this, for in

certain fishes he considers the symmetrical Y-shaped ossicle

marked in his diagrams      91,

                               is

                                                                                                  ;
                             and superimposed on the pre-

sphenoidal process of his basi-sphenoid, as the central part

while that process itself he holds to be the capsular portion

of the ossified notochord.

That mutual elongation and overlapping of the cranial

centrums formerly alluded to strongly marked in fishes, the

178  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

sphenoidal centrum being dovetailed into and elongated beneath
the occipital behind, and above the ethmoidal (" vomer ") in
front. The manner in which the anterior elongated portion

of the post-sphenoidal centrum of the bird elevates and carries

on its upper surface the compressed pre-sphenoidal centrum

Ihas already been stated ; and must again observe that it

appears to me that the pre-sphenoidal centrum exists in certain
fishes only in the form of a bar of cartilage -- a portion of the

"primordial cranium" situated on the upper surface of the

anterior prolongation of the post-sphenoidal centrum, and

terminating on the upper surface of the ethmoidal centrum or
so-called " vomer," and that in fishes with an " ossified orbital
septum " or " cranial ethmoid," it is to be recognised in the
half- ossified cartilaginous mass which unites the right and left
plates of that " septum," and which have been already indi
cated as its corresponding neurapophyses. The pre-sphenoidal
is an undeveloped centrum in the fish, retaining more or less
of its " primordial " texture and form, and elevated, therefore,

above, or carried inwards, so as to be covered by the fully-

Ideveloped ethmoidal and post-sphenoidal centrums.
          am acquainted with no example of a fully-developed

temporal centrum. It is represented in the "primordial

 cranium" by the quadrilateral cartilaginous plate, bounded

 laterally by the ear-capsules, behind by the portion corre
 sponding to the cartilaginous lateral occipitals, and in front by
the part in which the post-sphenoidal centrum first appears.
 In all vertebrate animals this portion of the basis of the

 primordial cranium is of great comparative extent, and is

 encroached upon by the advancing ossification of the occipital
 and post-sphenoidal centrums in modes which vary in the
 different vertebrate forms. In mammals, the occipital advances
 into it at the expense of the post-sphenoidal centrum. In
 birds and fishes the post-sphenoidal passes more backwards.

In the reptiles the two centrums appear to share it equally.

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  179

IIn all the forms, believe that traces of the intermediate or

temporal centrum may be detected, either in the cartilaginous

or osseous condition. In fishes, more or less of the primordial

cartilage remains above the junction of the occipital centrum,

post-sphenoidal centrum, and temporal neurapophyses (" petro
sals"), and covered more or less internally, or towards the
cranial cavity, by the internal prolongations of the occipital
centrum, and of the temporal and post-sphenoidal neurapo
physes. The peculiar canal for the muscles of the orbit
existing in certain fishes, and which is roofed over principally
by the " petrosals," or temporal neurapophyses, appears to be
hollowed out principally in the primordial temporal centrum,

and to be lined by its constituent cartilage. The peculiar Y-

shaped bone met with in the pike, perch, and salmon, marked
91 by Professor Owen, and * by Hallman, and considered by
the former as that portion of the pre-sphenoidal centrum which
results from the ossification of the corresponding central por
tion of the notochord, appears to me to be a central element,

but referable rather to the post-sphenoidal or temporal than
to the pre-sphenoidal segment. For, in the first place, it may
be questioned whether the corda dorsalis of the fish reaches

Ithe region of the pre-sphenoid ; and, in the second place, if

am correct in my determination of the post-sphenoidal and
temporal neurapophyses of the fish, the two ascending limbs

of this bone abut against these latter elements, and are not at
all connected with the pre-sphenoidal neurapophyses. As,
moreover, these ascending limbs of the bone in question are
more intimately connected with the bones which Professor

IOwen considers to be the ali-sphenoids, but which must hold
Ito be the inferior temporal neurapophyses, am inclined to

conceive it an ossified portion of the temporal centrum.
     With regard to the bone termed by Hallman os innomi-

natum, which is small but well marked in the carp, and larger
in the perch, and which Professor Owen considers to be the

180  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

I I Ipetrosal, quite agree with him. But while do so, make

a distinction between an ossified portion of the auditory

capsule and the bone which constitutes the corresponding

Ineurapophysis, in the same manner as find myself compelled

to admit the independent existence of the ethmoidal neura

pophysis and the olfactory capsules, whether fibrous, cartila

ginous, or osseous, and the corresponding independent existence
of the variously-modified sclerotics and the orbito-sphenoids.

     Proceeding now to the examination of the remaining

Ielements of the post-stomal neural arches in the fish, would

observe that if we put aside those conceptions of the constitution

of the arches in question, derived from previous study of the
cranium of the mammal, the constitution of the corresponding

arches in the fish which naturally suggests itself is the
following :--

      1. Over the occipital centrum the lateral occipitals and the

external occipitals -- as two pairs of neurapophyses, and the
superior occipital -- as a single meta-neurapophysis.

      2. Over the position of the temporal centrum, the bones
termed petrosals by the continental anatomists, but by Professor
Owen petrosals in the cod, and ali-sphenoids in the carp, and
over these the mastoids, these " petrosals " or " ali-sphenoids,"

along with the mastoids --as two pairs of neurapophyses, and

the contiguous or separated bones usually termed "parietals,"

as a divided meta-neurapophysis.
      3. Over the great basi-sphenoid, the bones termed by

Professor Owen orbito-sphenoids in the carp, and ali-sphenoids
in the cod, with the post-frontals -- as two pairs of neurapo

physes, the meta-neurapophyses being absent.
      Before making any statements in support of this view of

the constitution of the post-stomal neural arches in the

Icranium of the osseous fish, would direct attention to the

corresponding parts in the other Vertebrata from the same

point of view.

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.        181

In the bird, the occipital neural arch wants the ex-occipitals.

The temporal arch possesses no centrum, but the petrosals,

mastoids, and parietals are placed one over the other as two

pairs of neurapophyses and a divided meta-neurapophysis.

The post-sphenoidal centrum is surmounted by the post-

sphenoidal wings and the feebly-developed post-frontals --as

two pairs of neurapophyses, while the meta-neurapophysis is

deficient.

    In the crocodiles, the occipital arch, as in the birds, has

lost the upper pair of neurapophyses. The temporal centrum

is not developed, but the two pairs of neurapophyses, and an

undivided meta-neurapophysis --the petrosals (ali-sphenoids
of Owen), mastoids, and so-called parietal -- form a continuous

arch. The post-sphenoidal centrum is again found to carry

two pairs of neurapophyses, the great sphenoidal wings (orbito-

sphenoids of Owen), and the post-frontals.  The meta-

neurapophysis is missing.

    In the chelonians, the occipital arch consists of one pair

of neurapophyses and a meta-neurapophysis surmounting a

centrum. The temporal centrum is not developed. The

inferior pair of neurapophyses, the so-called ex-occipitals, abut

externally against the mastoids, and are thus connected with

the largely-developed so-called "parietals." These "parietals"

not only form a large part of the cranial and temporal vaults,

but send down laminae to rest on the pterygoids, and thus

enter into the formation of the lateral walls of the cranial

cavity in front of the post-sphenoidal wings. Above the post-

sphenoidal centrum, the post-sphenoidal wings and the post-

frontals rise in connection with one another as two pairs of

neurapophyses, but the meta-neurapophysis is again wanting.
     In the ophidians, the occipital centrum is again surmounted

by one pair of neurapophyses and a meta-neurapophysis. The

temporal centrum has disappeared behind the basi-sphenoid ;
but the well-developed so-called " petrosals," the ali-sphenoids

182 ON THE MOBPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

of Professor Owen, are surmounted by the elongated and
nearly extruded mastoids ; while the single meta-neurapophy-
sis, the undivided " parietal," is so largely developed, that,
passing down as in the chelonian to the basis of the cranium,
it rests upon the post-sphenoidal centrum over a great extent
in front of its own neurapophyses, so as altogether to

obliterate the post-sphenoidal wing. The post-sphenoidal
centrum is there cut off from the post-frontals, which consti
tute the only remaining elements of its neural arch.

    In the lacertians, the occipital centrum, with its pair of

neurapophyses and single neurapophysis, is followed by a
temporal arch, without a centrum, but with two pairs of neura
pophyses, " petrosals," and mastoids, and an undivided meta-
neurapophysis or "parietal," generally single in front, but
projecting backwards, with the mastoids on each side behind.
The post-sphenoidal centrum is not surmounted by ali-sphe-
noids, except the parietal columella represents these elements.
The post-frontals again appear ; but without a corresponding

meta-neurapophysis.

     In the frogs, the occipital centrum and the corresponding

meta-neurapophyses have disappeared ; a single pair of neura
pophyses constituting the sole osseous elements of the arch.
The temporal centrum appears in the primordial cartilage,
which extends across on the upper surface of the posterior
part of the much-elongated " basi-sphenoid," and between the
cartilaginous auditory capsules. The latter are intimately
connected to the inferior temporal neurapophyses, the ali-
sphenoids of Professor Owen, with which feebly-developed
mastoids or superior neurapophyses are conjoined ; the whole

being surmounted by the greatly-developed antero-posteriorly
elongated so-called "parietals," which dip down slightly at
their margins, in front of the temporal region towards the
 "basi-sphenoid," as in the chelonians and ophidians. The
portions of the post-sphenoidal wings and the post-frontals are

THE SKELETON OF THE VEETEBRATE HEAD.  183

occupied by fibrous texture ; the " basi-sphenoid" or post-
sphenoidal centrum extending forwards below ; and the " pari-
etals" taking the place of the deficient meta-neurapophyses.

      The preceding view of the arrangement of the centrums
and neural arches of the post-stomal sclerotomes of the lower
forms of cranium, is that which would appear naturally to
suggest itself to a mind uninfluenced by the arrangement of

the corresponding region of the mammalian skull. It is

assumed throughout that there are more or less complete carti
laginous or osseous auditory capsules in addition to correspond
ing neurapophyses ; and that these neurapophyses are not
post-sphenoidal but temporal, as evinced by their zygopophy-
seal connections in the human cranium. No reference has
been made to the relations of the contested " petrosals" and
ali-sphenoids" to the fifth nerve, because, while the funda

mental relation of that nerve to the post-sphenoidal sclerotome
is admitted, the divisions of the nerve exhibit the same

tendency to vary in their points of exit, as is presented by the

other cerebral nerves ; moving backwards more or less across

the corresponding neurapophyses, and notching or perforating

the neurapophyses behind. In fact, until a more minute

investigation of the development of the cranium in its relations
to the cerebral nerves has afforded some explanation of the
varied relations of these parts in the series, we cannot, in
my opinion, attach much weight to the determination of a
" petrosal" or an " ali-sphenoid" by means of their relations

to the trigeminal nerve.

      Proceeding now to the examination of the post-stomal
centrums and neural arches of the mammalian cranium, let
the human skull be selected for examination. The occipital

centrum is surmounted by a pair of neurapophyses and a
double meta-neurapophysis. But again, surmounting the
meta-neurapophyses there is a double piece, which occasion
ally remains permanently separate from the " occipital bone."

184 ON THK MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

This double piece, or pair of bones, presents the relations of
the interparietal bones in lower Mammalia. They may extend
laterally to join the " mastoids," or they may be connected to
the latter by a more or less continuous chain of " triquetral
bones" in the line of the lambdoidal suture.

     The zygopophyseal attachments of the " petrous portions
of the temporal bone " indicate these masses to be neurapo-
physes enveloping the ossified auditory capsules. Keeping
out of view the " squamous," " tympanic," and " styloid" por
tions of the "temporal bones," the "mastoidal portions"
become early and intimately connected with the "petrous
portions." Commencing with the "petrous portions," as an
inferior pair of temporal neurapophyses, they are surmounted,
as in the lower Vertebrata, by the " mastoidal portions" as a
second pair of neurapophyses, while the arch is closed by the
double element which forms the upper angle of the " occipital
bone," as a meta-neurapophysis. There are well-marked indi
cations of a temporal centrum in the human cranium. The
irregularly-truncated apices of the " petrous portions," directed
obliquely forwards and inwards, are continuous, by means of
the fibro-cartilaginous remains of the basis of the " primordial
cranium," which occupy the " foramina lacera media," with
the inclined plate of bone which, in the plane of the " basilar

process of the occipital" or occipital centrum, forms the back
part of the " body of the sphenoid," including the " posterior
clinoid processes." This plate of bone is frequently surrounded
by a deep groove, the posterior part of which lodges the

I" transverse venous sinus," and have seen it nearly detached.

     The feebly-developed post-frontals in the bird have dis
appeared in the mammal, so that the post-sphenoidal centrum
is surmounted by the " ali-sphenoids," as a single pair of neura
pophyses ; and by the enormously- expanded double meta-
neurapophysis in the human subject, or. the less developed
form of parietals in the Mammalia generally.

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.               185

The fundamental facts on which the preceding determina

tion of the comparative constitution of the post-stomal neural

arches of the cranium depends, are the zygopophyseal con
Ifnections of the human " petrosals."
                                       the " petrosals" even

in one species can be proved to present the characters of

neurapophyses, the sclerotome to which they belong must

exist in addition to those to which the "ali-sphenoids" and
" orbit o-sphenoids" are referable. The existence of temporal

neurapophyses explains the existence of interparietal, in

addition to parietal bones in the mammal ; both of these

meta-neurapophyses taking part in the protection of the

developed cerebrum ; while the non-appearance of the anterior

or spheno-parietal in the bird, reptile, and fish, accords with

the complete development of the posterior or temporo-parietal,

repressed in the former by the influence of the cerebrum, and
Iby the full development of the ethmoido-frontal.
                                                   base my

determination of the separate existence and reciprocal develop

ment of ethmoido-frontals and spheno-frontals, of spheno-

parietals and temporo-parietals, not only on my analysis of

the bones themselves in the series, but also on the evident

reciprocal influence which the superimposed cerebral mass in

the mammal, and the bulky organs of sense and uncovered

sense-ganglions of the lower Vertebrata have on the cranial
                I believe also, that in this, as in other
neural arches.

departments of inquiry, we are apt to look for greater sim

plicity and uniformity in details than actually exist. The

simplicity of natural law consists in the comprehensiveness

of its general principles. In tracing these principles into

details, the complexity is found to be infinite.

     The Hmmal Arches of the Post-stomal Cephalic Sclerotomes.

--The clue by means of which we can alone be safely guided

to the morphological constitution of these arches, in the midst

of the varied complexity which they present to the compara

tive anatomist, is afforded by embryology. The haemal arches

186 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

of the post-stomal sclerotomes are developed each in the cor
responding pair of "visceral laminae." By endeavouring to
ascertain, therefore, in which of these post-stomal " visceral
laminae" the sclerous elements of the varied forms of the

post-stomal haemal arches are originally formed, the morpho
logical constitution of the individual haemal arches may

Ireasonably be anticipated. If, again, am correct in my deter

mination of the constitution of the pre-stomal sclerotomes, the
allocation of the individual post-stomal haemal arches to their
proper centrums and neural arches follows as a matter of course.

     From the observations more particularly of Eathke and
Eeichert, the formation of the osseous elements of the post-
stomal haemal arches in the " visceral lamime," is preceded in
each by a more or less distinct and continuous cartilaginous
streak or band. Eathke found seven pairs of these cartilagi
nous streaks loosely connected to the basis of the embryo
head of the Blennius vivi^arus, and corresponding to the man
dibular, hyoidean, first, second, third, and fourth branchial and

pharyngeal arches. In the adderthe same indefatigable embryo-

logist and comparative anatomist found a cartilaginous style,
with a process directed forward in the position of the maxil
lary, palate, and pterygoid bones, embedded in the first
visceral lamina, and its "superior maxillary process," and
attached to the side of the basis of the primordial cranium in
front of its auditory region ; a similar style lay in the second
visceral lamina, and was firmly attached to the base of the
cartilaginous cranium behind, and external to the auditory
capsule ; a third style lay in the third visceral lamina, and
was also firmly attached like a rib to the occipital region of
the primordial cranium. Similar primordial haemal arches
have been found by Reichert in the visceral laminae of the

mammal and bird, and by numerous observers in the Am

phibia. It is important to observe again at this point, that

the relations of all these seven pairs of primordial haemal

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                                                                 187

arches are similar. Firstly, all the visceral laminae in which

they are developed appear to consist of the serous, vascular,

and mucous layers united ; secondly, the cartilaginous streaks

are formed towards their inner surfaces, under the mucous

layer ; thirdly, the heart and vascular arches are on their ex

terior, under the serous layer.

    First Poststomal Hmmal Arch.--The constitution of this

arch must be determined by the examination of the develop

ment of the first post-stomal visceral lamina. It has been

already stated that the process usually considered as the upper
part of the so-called " first visceral lamina "
                                                 is,its general re

                                                   if

                                                         is
lations be taken into account, the posterior pre-stomal visceral

lamina in which the pre-sphenoidal haemal arch developed.

The cartilaginous streak in the first post-stomal visceral

lamina of the mammal divides into two portions. The

superior and smaller of the two becomes the incus. The long

inferior portion the cartilage of Meckel around the lower
;                ;

             is                         is
part of which the corresponding half of the lower jaw de

veloped the upper part forms the slender process and the

head of the malleus. As the Eustachian tube, the tympanum,

and the external auditory passage, consist of the persistent

upper portion of the first visceral cleft, the cartilage of the

Eustachian tube, and the tympanic bone, which are continuous

with one another, and form the floor of these three spaces, are

developed in blastema deposited near the upper extremity of

the cleft. This blastema also forms the membrane of the

tympanum, into which the handle of the malleus shoots. It

to be observed that this lower jaw and tympanic bone do
is
                                                                                                  a
not originate in the primordial cartilaginous streak, but in

blastema deposited around it. The tympanic bone forms at

first an inverted arch across the visceral cleft, or ring in

complete above, which supports the membrane of the tym

panum on the outer side of the attenuated portion of Meckel's

cartilage, which connects the malleus to the inner side of the

188  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

jaw. It then extends inwards, so as to form the floor of the

tympanum and Eustachian tube, folding up before and be
hind, and thus, inclosing the incus and malleus, leaves the

latter connected to the jaw through the tympanic fissure.
      The development of the first post-stomal visceral lamina

appears, therefore, to indicate at least four elements on each
side of the mandibular haemal arch in the mammal. The
tympanic element is probably complex ; the mandibular con
sists of at least two portions, one on the outer, the other on the
inner side of the corresponding portion of Meckel's cartilage.

    In the bird the omoid and palate bones are formed like

the pterygoid and palate bones of the mammal, in the so-

called " superior maxillary process." In the proper first post-

stomal visceral lamina, the primordial cartilaginous streak
divides, as in the mammal, into two portions. The upper
and smaller of the two becomes the quadrate bone ; the

lower and longer portion --Meckel's cartilage --becomes en

veloped in the corresponding half of the lower jaw ; but
instead of the upper end of this portion forming the slender
process of a malleus, it remains as the peculiarly-formed
articular piece of the jaw itself. The original intimate con
nection of the rudiment of the pterygoid bone, in the so-called
" superior maxillary process," with the upper or incudal por
tion of the primordial cartilaginous streak of the first post-
stomal visceral lamina of the mammal, speedily diminishes ;
but in the bird, not only does the pterygoid or omoid bone
rapidly increase in relative size and configuration ; but the
quadrate portion of the first -visceral streak does so likewise.

The latter also exhibits, attached to its outer side, as the
omoid is to its internal process, a styliform ossicle, the rudi
ment of the quadrate-jugal bone, which again is connected
anteriorly to the jugal.

     Eeichert, who has minutely described and figured the
development of this visceral lamina in the bird, makes no

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.                  189

allusion to the remarkable indication which it affords of the

signification of the quadrate bone, and articular piece of the

lower jaw. It affords, as it appears to me, sufficient evidence

that the quadrate bone of the bird is the homologue of the

mammalian incus, and that the articular piece of its lower

jaw is the homologue of that ossified portion of the upper end

of Meckel's cartilage, which in the mammal forms the slender

process of the malleus.

The quadrate bone has been hitherto considered as the

homologue of the tympanic bone in the mammal, not only

from the proximity of the latter to the condyle of the jaw,

but chiefly from its presumed absence in the skull of the bird.

But there appears to me to be sufficient evidence of its exist

ence, not only in the fibro-cartilaginous frame which connects

the margin of the tympanic membrane to the mastoid, lateral

occipital, and basi-sphenoid, but more particularly in the thin

well-defined lamina of bone, which, apparently united to its

fellow of the opposite side, forms the floor of the tympanic

cellular space in the broad posterior portion of the basi-

sphenoid. As these apparently united laminae are continuous

with the single cartilaginous Eustachian tube, below the

Isingle or double osseous Eustachian orifice, am induced to

believe that they will turn out to be the feebly-developed

representatives of the tympanic bones of the mammal.

By a very beautiful analysis Professor Owen has proved

that the quadrate-jugal bone of the bird is the homologue of
Ithe squamous portion of the mammalian temporal.
                                                      cannot,

however, give my assent to his determination of its special

homology, as a portion of the subdivided radiating appendage

of the maxillary arch. Its relations in birds and crocodiles,

in which it presents all its fundamental connections, appear
to me to show that it is an anterior actinapophysis of the

mandibular arch ; passing forwards to abut against the malar,

Iwhich have already stated to be a posterior actinapophysis

190  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

of the ethmoidal haemal arch, or as in the lacertians against

the post-frontals. The squamous portion of the quadrate-

jugal bone is a mammalian superaddition, to adapt it to the

part it takes in the formation of the cranial wall. It is with

drawn therefore from the quadrate or incudal portion of the

mandibular arch (which portion diminishes relatively), and

passes --as the entire bone does in the lizards --upwards to

be connected with the cranial wall. The development of the

first post-stomal visceral lamina in the bird appears therefore

to afford evidence that the mandibular haemal arch in the

bird and mammal includes a tympanic element, a quadrate

or incudal, a malleal or articular, and the elements of the

corresponding side of the lower jaw.

   IOn the same grounds am inclined to believe that the

articular piece of the lower jaw of the reptile and amphibian

is malleal like the corresponding piece in the bird, and not

the homologue of the condyle of the mammalian jaw. They

are all malleal portions of Meckel's cartilage retained in con
Inection with the jaw. In like manner,
                                        am inclined to

believe that the so-called tympanic bone of the reptile and

amphibian, like the quadrate or so-called tympanic bone of the

bird, is not the homologue of the tympanic bone of the mam

mal, but of the incus. The incus of the mammal has been set

free from its fundamental quadrate-jugal and pterygoid con

nections to co-operate with the similarly released malleus in

the economy of the ear. The absence of proper tympanic

bones in the reptile and amphibian is explained by the absence
Ior feeble development of the tympanic cavity.
                                                am inclined

to think, however, that traces of them may be detected under

and between the basi-sphenoid and occipital of the crocodile, in

the walls of those canals which connect, as Professor Owen has

shown, by a common tubular communication, the Sella Turcica

and the tympanic cavities with the basis of the cranium.

The tympanic systems and lower jaw of the osseous fish

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  191

is,form together a well-marked haemal arch, developed in the
first post>stomal visceral lamina of the embryo. From what
has already been stated regarding the sclerous elements which
result from the development of this visceral lamina in the
other Vertebrata, Professor Owen's view of the tympanic

system of the osseous fish, as the teleologically-divided homo-
logue of the quadrate bone of the bird, and tympanic bone of
the reptile, would appear to require additional evidence. We
are not yet in possession of materials for a rigorous determina

tion ; but it appears extremely probable that the tympanic
bones of the osseous fish are morphological, as well as teleo-

logical elements. If the articular piece of the lower jaw be

assumed as the malleal portion of the persistent cartilage of
Meckel, the hypo-tympanic occupies the position of the in-
cudal element, connected, as usual, with the pterygoid. The
epi-tympanic is in the position of the proper tympanic element
of the mammal, while the pre-tympanic, in its relations to the

hypo-tympanic and pterygoid, closely resembles the quadrate-

jugal or squamosal.
     The opercular bones form on each side of the mandibular

arch a series of actinapophyseal elements, which, from the
view already taken of such elements, would appear to be pos
terior, as the quadrate-jugal or squamosal is anterior in rela
tion to the sclerotome. With regard to any traces of these
opercular or actinapophyseal elements in the mandibular

Ihaemal arch of the higher Vertebrata, must agree with Carus

in considering the cartilages of the external ear in the Mam
malia as homologous with them. The objection of Eathke to

this determination of Carus --that the cartilage of the concha

is attached to the tympanic bone so as to be situated at the

back of the auditory foramen --that at the posterior margins
of the first visceral cleft -- appears to me to be met by taking

into account the peculiar curved form which the tympanic ele
ment assumes in passing from before backwards across the cleft.

 192 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

       The allocation of the mandibular haemal arch to the post-
 sphenoidal or first post-stomal sclerotome follows from the
 analysis already made of the pre-stomal sclerotomes.

      The Second and Third Post-stomal Hmmal Arches. --As the

 researches, more especially of Bathke and Keichert, on the

 development of the first visceral lamina, afford a clue to the
 constitution of the corresponding haemal arch, so do the
 labours of these observers in like manner indicate the nature
 of the second and third arches. These arches are developed

in the second and third visceral lamina}, and, from the varied
 forms which they present in the series, could only have been
 determined by an appeal to embryology.

     In the mammal the primordial cartilaginous streak in the

 second visceral lamina, and which is attached superiorly to
the auditory region, divides into segments, the uppermost of
which becomes the stapes ; while the succeeding become, in
 succession with the intermediate soft portions, the " stapedius
muscle," the pyramid and its prolongation downwards, the
styloid process, the stylo-hyoid ligament, and the series of
sclerous elements which terminates below in the anterior
horn of the hyoid.

      The primordial cartilaginous streak in the third visceral
lamina is attached to the occipital region, breaking up into
four segments ; the two upper disappear ; the two lower be
come respectively the posterior horn and corresponding half
of the body of the hyoid.

     In the second visceral lamina of the bird, in like manner,

the auditory columella is developed superiorly, and the feeble
anterior horn- of the hyoid below, while the elements of the
suspensory or posterior horn of the hyoid are formed in the
third visceral lamina. The fibrous septum of the tongue and
the epiglottis of the mammal make their appearance in the
line of junction of the second and third visceral laminae. The
respective share taken by these two laminae in the formation

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  193

of the so-called basi-glosso and uro-hyals in the bird remains

to be determined.

     The precise observations of Eathke have shown that the
lateral halves of the feebly-developed hyoid of the ophidian
are formed by the lower portions of the primordial cartila
ginous streaks of the second pair of visceral laminae, while the
auditory columellae are formed in their upper portions.
Eathke also found that the primordial cartilaginous streaks of
the third pair of visceral laminae, and which are attached to

the occipital region, disappear altogether.
     There are no embryological observations in sufficient detail

to indicate the morphological relations of the more or less

complex hyoid apparatus in the chelonian and lacertian.
The so-called hyoid, or suspensory arch of the branchial
apparatus in the Amphibia, is developed in the second pair of
visceral laminae. The corresponding arch in the tadpole, and
the anterior or suspensory horn of the so-called " hyoid " of
the frog, are also developed in this pair of visceral laminae.
The suspensory arch of the branchial apparatus is attached to
the quadrate, or so-called " tympanic " piece of the mandi
bular arch, and not to the base of the cranium. Eathke had
observed a filament extending between the auditory region of
the cranium and the quadrate cartilage of the tadpole. He
found that the so-called " malleus and incus " are developed
in this filament. According to Eeichert, this filament appears
to be the upper part of the second primordial cartilaginous
streak, which, in consequence of the peculiar manner in which
 it curves forward superiorly towards the quadrate cartilage (a
 curvature of the same kind towards the quadrate bone has been
observed by Eathke in the adder), becomes attached to it. In
 consequence of this attachment, the hyoidean arch becomes
 suspended to the quadrate portion of the mandibular ; and the

 upper portion, between the quadrate cartilage and the auditory
 region of the skull, becomes converted into those elements in

                                                           o

194  ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

the frog which have their homologues in the stapes of the
mammal, and the columella, with its cartilaginous extremities,
in the bird and reptile.

      As the cartilaginous branchial arches of the tadpole, and
of the other Amphibia, are formed in the succeeding visceral
laminae, it would appear to follow, as a necessary consequence,
that the suspensory or hyoidean arch of the amphibian, with
its inferior mesial element, and along with the auditory
ossicles, is homologous with the anterior or suspensory part of
the hyoid, along with the stirrup-bones in the mammal, and
with the corresponding structures in the bird and serpent ;
and that the first branchial arch of the amphibian, with its
corresponding inferior mesial elements, are homologous with
the posterior horns and body of the hyoid in the mammal, and
with the posterior or suspensory horns, with the corresponding
inferior mesial elements of the hyoid in the bird. The so-

called posterior horns of the hyoid of the frog cannot, there

fore, be the homologues, as Professor Owen's statements might
lead us to infer, of the posterior horns of the hyoid of the
mammal or bird. The posterior horns of the hyoid of the
frog are the remains of its posterior pair of branchial arches,
or enlargements of the posterior angles of its basi-hyals.
They are developed therefore in its posterior visceral laminae ;
while the posterior hyoidean horns of the mammal and bird
are developed in the third pair of visceral laminae.

     As the skeleton of the hyoidean and branchial apparatus
of the fish is developed in the form of a series of inverted
arches in the corresponding visceral laminae, from the second
inclusive, we are obliged to conclude that its hyoidean arch is
the homologue of the stylo-hyoidean arch, with the stirrup-

bones--or second post-stomal arch -- in the mammal ; and of

the corresponding portion of the hyoidean apparatus in the
bird, with the columellae ; and of the entire hyoid in the ser
pent, with the columellae ; and that the first branchial arch in

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HKAI).  195

the fish is the homologue of the corresponding arch in the
amphibian; of the posterior horns of the hyoid, and their
associated elements in the bird ; and of the posterior horns
and body of the hyoid in the mammal.

    It has not yet been determined upon what developmental

change the suspension of the hyoidean arch of the fish to its

mandibular arch depends. It is probably of the same nature

as that which occurs in the tadpole, with this difference, that
the upper portion of the hyoidean arch disappears in the fish,
without developing a stapedial ossicle ; while its lower portion

remains permanently connected to the mandibular arch, in
stead of regaining an attachment to the cranium.

     The hyoidean and branchial arches of the fish are provided,
as has been already stated, with a well-developed double series
of actinapophyses, for the support of the branchiostegal

membrane and the branchial laminae. These actinapophyses
in the fish are foreshadowed in the tadpole by the tubercular
margins of its branchial styles.

    The question may now be put--if we are brought by

reference to the development of the parts to allocate to the

three post-stomal sclerotomes, haemal arches, consisting re
spectively of the sclerous parts developed in the three anterior

post-stomal visceral laminae, to what sclerotomes are we to
refer the potential or actual haemal arches in the remaining
visceral laminae ? For reasons already stated, they cannot be

disposed of by referring them to a splanchno-skeleton, because
in that case the hyoidean arch or arches, and apparently the
mandibular arch also, must be referred to the same category.
Neither can they be referred to any of the cervical, or trunk

sclerotomes ; because it would appear that the visceral walls
of the head are alone perforated by clefts. We are not yet
prepared to answer the question. It involves, as it appears to
me, the investigation of a residual quantity, the solution of
which will require some information in reference to certain

19G  OK THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF

points, regarding which we cannot at present be said to possess
any. First, the development of the cyclostomes, but more
especially of branchiostoma ; secondly, the mode in which the
trunk sclerotomes increase in number and become arranged in
groups ; thirdly, the mode in which the same changes proceed
in the cranium ; fourthly, the determination of the series of
cephalic nervous centres, with their corresponding nerves
(neurotomes), more especially in the medulla oblongata, with
the causes which determine the grouping and order in which
the cerebral nerves pass through the walls of the cranium.

    If there appear to be no sufficient developmental grounds

for making a distinction between the branchial arches of the
amphibian and fish, as belonging to a splanchno-skeleton, and
the hyoidean and mandibular as referable to the neuro- or
endo-skeleton, it becomes important to determine the signifi
cation of the sclerous elements of the larynx, trachea, and
bronchial tubes. Without presuming to anticipate the minute
observation of the development of the parts themselves neces

Isary for the solution of a question of this kind, would venture

to suggest that the proper cartilages of the larynx are de
veloped from the inferior or mesial extremities of certain of
the visceral laminae ; and that the cartilages of the trachea
and bronchial tubes are a pair of highly-developed actinapo-

physeal systems, referable to one of the posterior visceral

arches.

    Post-stomal Neuractinapophyses. -- In addition to the audi

Itory capsules, recognise as post-stomal neuractinapophyses

more particularly those ossicles attached to the post-frontals,
mastoids, and external occipitals of fishes. Those attached to
the post-frontals may enter into the formation of the infra-
ocular bony arch. Those, again, which are developed on the
temporal and occipital sclerotomes are modified so as to
co-operate in the cranial suspension of the scapular girdle.

    In conclusion, Goethe was the first to indicate the inter

THE SKELETON OF THE VERTEBRATE HEAD.  197

maxillaries, the maxillaries, aiid palatals, as elements of three

Idistinct cranial segments. In the course of my investigation

into the development of the teeth, became early aware of tire
correctness of Goethe's views on this subject, and have found
myself, therefore, unable to coincide with the doctrine of Pro
fessor Owen as to the constitution of his palato-maxillaiy

or nasal hteinal arch.

198. ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OK LIMBS.

VII.-- ON THE MOKPHOLOG1CAL CONSTITUTION
                                 OF LIMBS.

Carus, maintaining generally the doctrine of cephalic

limbs, originally propounded by Oken, has at the same time.

given much greater precision to the conception of the skeleton

of a limb, by viewing it as a system of elements radiating

from the exterior of a costiform arch. Professor Owen, while

he rejects, with British and the majority of foreign anatomists,

the fantastic doctrine of Oken and his immediate followers

with regard to cephalic limbs, has adopted the general doc

trine of the skeleton of the limb as propounded by Carus, and

lias developed and applied it with much ingenuity to the

illustration of actual structure. Professor Owen, has, however,

at the same time, by his allocation of the scapular girdle to

the occipital segment of the cranium as its haemal arch, and

by the view which he takes of the opercular and branchio-

stegal elements, actually reproduced the doctrine of cephalic
Ilimbs in another form.
                         do not propose in this communica

tion to examine in detail the grounds on which Professor

Owen's general. doctrine of limbs is based, but shall merely

state categorically those considerations which appear to me to

render it untenable.

    1. It is highly improbable that the sclerous elements of a

limb should be derived from one, or at most two, sclerotomes;

while its other elements, and more especially its nerves, are

supplied by a greater number of somatomes.

    2. It appeal's to be lughly improbable that the bones

which enter into the structure of an arm or leg, or that the

            ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF LIMBS. 199

corresponding sclerous parts in the lower animals, should be
the result of teleological subdivision of a single " diverging
appendage " or " archetypal element." Professor Owen
virtually admits that these "teleological" elements have a
morphological value when he institutes an inquiry into their
" special " and " serial homologies."

    3. It appears to me that the scapular girdle cannot be the

haemal arch of the occipital segment of the head-- firstly,
because that segment is already provided with a haemal arch
in the series of transitory and persistent sclerous elements
developed in the third pair of visceral laminae ; secondly, be

cause the scapular girdle is invariably found to be developed
at or in the immediate neighbourhood of that part of the
trunk of the animal where it is ultimately situated ; and,
thirdly, because it is improbable that the exceptions to a
general law should be more numerous than the instances in
which it is adhered to*

     The germs of the limbs make their appearance when the
ventral laminae of the primordial vertebral system are passing
down towards the haemal margin. At first they resemble
lappet-like projections of the inferior margins of these laminae ;
they extend along at least four or five of their segments, and
are situated in those regions of the body to which the future
limb is attached -- viz. in the pelvic and posterior region of
the neck, except in the fish, in which the pectoral lappets are
situated close behind the head. As the ventral laminae

extend downwards, the lappets retain a position more or less

elevated on the side of the trunk. At this stage they also

    * It is somewhat remarkable that the only embryological evidence which

Professor Owen adduces in support of that portion of his Doctrine of Limbs,
in which the anterior limb is assumed to be developed at or close to the head,
is a reference to a passage in Eathke's Entwickelung der ScliildkrSten, in which
the author adduces the fundamental position of the bones of the shoulder -- viz.
the posterior region of the neck -- as a circumstance tending to explain their
ultimate passage into the thoracic cavity.

200 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF LIMBS.

begin to exhibit a change in their form and position. They
become first sessile, then pedunculated, and the peduncle then
indicates by an angle at its centre the formation of the central

joint of the shaft of the future limb--the elbow or knee-joint.

IAt the same time, what term the plane of the limb is

changed. The lappet was originally developed in a plane,
which is coincident with the axis of the corda dorsalis.
This is the primary or fundamental plane of the limb ; and
when in this plane the lappet presents its radial or tibial
margin forwards towards the head, and its ulnar or fibular
margin backwards. When the limb leaves its primary posi
tion, it lies in its secondary plane, which cuts the corda
dorsalis more or less obliquely, so that the radial or tibial
margins of the limb are directed more or less forwards and
inwards, and the ulnar and fibular backwards and outwards.
The permanently-sessile pectoral lappets or fins of the
osseous fish exhibit a peculiar modification of tbe same
movement ; they rotate on a transverse axis, so that their
anterior or radial margins are directed downwards and their

ulnar margins upwards. In the sharks and rays the pec

toral and abdominal fins continue permanently in the primary

plane.

     While the lappet is still in its primary plane, the rudi
ments of the girdle of the future limb may be detected under

the integumentary covering, and therefore external to the

proper mass of the visceral wall of the body. In the pri

mordial condition of the lappet of the wing of the cluck,
Remak has detected four parallel streaks running to its outer
margin, and continuous internally with the rudimentary
nervous structures of the four primordial vertebrae, with which
the attached margin of the lappet is connected.

      Guided by embryological facts and conclusions, to the

I Imore important of which have just alluded, have en

 deavoured to detect, more particularly in the osseous fishes,

ON THK MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF LIMBS. 201

plagiostomes, amphibians, and reptiles, the principle which

lies at the basis of the morphology of limbs. The view which
Ithis inquiry has induced me to take of this subject
                                                      shall, in
conclusion, state very briefly.
                                                              f

1. A limb does not necessarily derive its elements from

one somatome-- about fifty segments of the trunk appear to

contribute towards the structure of the great pectoral fin in

the ray.

2. The nervous elements of the limbs appear, as in other

parts of the vertebrate animal, to indicate most distinctly the

morphological constitution of the sclerous elements. About

fifty spinal nerves contribute the greater part of their haemal

divisions to the pectoral fin of the ray ; and there are about
one hundred fin-rays --a pair of fin-rays to each nerve, and

derived from each sclerotome. This correspondence does not

apparently exist between the fin-rays and nerves of the
osseous fish; but it may be fairly assumed that when we

have detected the developmental circumstances which induce

the attachment of the pectoral girdle of the osseous fish to its

cranium, as well as those peculiarities exhibited by its

anterior trunk sclerotomes, this discrepancy will be explained.
A more careful analysis than we yet possess of the number of

spinal nerves which supply branches to the limbs of the

higher Vertebrata is still a desideratum in this department of

the subject ; but it appears to be extremely probable, that in

the Mammalia at least five spinal nerves transmit filaments

to the five distal divisions of the limb. It would appear, too,

that, notwithstanding their plexiform arrangement at the

attached end of the limb, the greater number of the filaments

of each nerve reach their own morphological district at the

distal part of the limb. The radial and the ulnar nerves

are formed principally by the upper and lower roots of the

human brachial plexus -- that    is,  from the nerves of the

upper and lower primordial segments with which the embryo

202 ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF LIMBS.

limb was connected, and from which it derived its various

elements.

3. The nerves supplied to a limb are not the inferior or

haemal divisions of the spinal nerves, but radiating or actinal

branches of these divisions. The intercostal nerves are not

the nerves serially homologous with the roots of the brachial

plexus. The thoracic nerves, serially homologous with these

roots, are the intercosto-humeral and the succeeding middle

intercosto-cutaneous.

4 Each sclerotome supplying elements to the structure of

a limb supplies as a sclerous element a single actinapophysis ;

or, as in the rays, an anterior and a posterior -- that
                                           a                      pair
                                                         is,
of actinapophyses.                                             a

6. 5.  From the structure of the mesial and lateral fin-rays of

the fish, the actinapophyseal elements of limb may be

assumed as primordially segmented.
         The fin-rays in the fish, and the phalangeal, metacarpal,

and metatarsal bones of the higher Vertebrata, are more or

less persistent conditions of the distal segments of the pri

mordial actinapophyseal elements of limb.
                          a

       By atrophy, or otherwise, one or more of the segments
8. 7.
                  ;in the successive transverse rows of actinapophyseal elements

disappear, so as to leave in man, e.g., four elements in each
carpal row two in the fore-arm, one in the arm, two in
the next row for the coracoid and clavicle, one in the proxi

mal row for the scapula.

       The nature of the subsequent changes which the ele

ments of the limb undergo, up as far as the shoulder or

hip, may be inferred from an examination of the paddle of

9.the Enaliosaur or Cetacean.

        A careful application of the hypothesis to the limb-

girdles of the cartilaginous fishes, Amphibia, and reptiles,

leaves me strongly inclined to believe that the coracoid anis

actinapophyseal segment between the humerus and scapula.

ON THE MORPHOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION OF LIMBS.  203

prolonged downwards, towards the haemal margin of the body ;
that the scapula is a proximal segment, elongated towards the
neural margin of the body ; that the clavicle is the only other
retained segment in the same transverse row as the coracoid,
in front of and elongated like in the haemal direction
and that the corresponding elements of the posterior limb
have similar morphological signification.
a
            it,

                                            it

                                                                                                                                            ;


                 DIVISION II.

ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, PATHOLOGY.


DIVISION II.

VIIL-- ON THE EMPLOYMENT OF MATHEMATICAL
    MODES OF INVESTIGATION IN THE DETER
    MINATION OF ORGANIC FORMS*

Lecture I.

Biology, the science of which physiology and anatomy formed
parts, had been hitherto advanced by the study of the structure
of animals or vegetables, and the investigation of the functions
or uses of the various parts of that structure. This was the
object with which they sought to ascertain the uses and func
tions of the particular parts of animals and vegetables under
examination, and to determine why the bones of any parti
cular animal should be of a particular form. Biologists had

* The two Lectures on this subject formed the conclusion of Professor

Goodsir's course of lectures on Comparative Anatomy, delivered in the Uni

versity in the Summer Session, 1849. The Abstract appeared in the Daily
Mail newspaper, July 31st and August 7th of that year. It had obviously

not been furnished or corrected by the author, and contained not only many

positive mistakes, but interpolations by the reporter. In the absence of any

manuscript copy from which to correct we had some doubts at first whether
it

                                                       a

                                          it

                                                                    a it,
                                                                                      it,

                                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                                                                     a

                                                                                                          it
                                                                                                                              is
should be reprinted. But as shows that the author's attention had been

directed many years ago to department of inquiry, which, though compara

tively neglected, undoubtedly affords room for useful research, and in which,

indeed, he was engaged up to within few weeks of his death as                                                                           an

attempt to illustrate that, the original form and law of growth of an organic

body being known, ita form at any future time may be made matter of

mathematical investigation, we have reproduced  with the omission of such

phrases and errors as were most obviously due to blunders on the part of the

reporter. --Eds.

206  MATHEMATICAL MODES OF

hitherto proceeded in this way ; knowing the habits of the
animals, and the form of the skeleton, and arrangement of the
muscles which co-operate with it in performing the movements

of the animals, they sought to determine what the particular

economy of the animal, under certain conditions, required. It

should be remembered that there was always a corresponding
harmony between the shape and connections of the organs of

the body and the motions peculiar to the animal. This in
volves the principle of final causes, which entered so largely
into anatomical and physiological investigations. Upon this

principle we determined what were the functions, because there
was no other the parts were so well adapted to perform.

     The wonderful progress of biology -- the science compre
hending the study of anatomy and physiology --or of compara
tive anatomy, was attributable to this ; it owed its greatness
to this study of final causes -- that of the remarkable adapta
tion of structures to particular functions.

     The application of the doctrine of final causes was not,
however, the most fertile mode of procedure in physical inves

tigations. It was only with respect to organised bodies that

it had enabled men of science to advance human knowledge.

It was very different in regard to chemistry, mechanics, etc.,

where no progress had been made till men of science had
thrown aside the consideration of final causes. But although
physical science did not advance till the introduction of the
inductive philosophy, and till final causes had been laid aside,
still the principle of final causes pervaded all nature. Take
in illustration the sun. But for the peculiar arrangement of the
sun in regard to the relations which he holds towards the earth
and other planetary bodies, his shape, and manner of moving
on his axis, we could have neither heat nor darkness, which

the economy of animals and vegetables rendered absolutely
necessary. Thus we might reason of the sun and earth, etc.,

from final causes, and might explain why the sun was so con

                   INVESTIGATING ORGANIC FORMS.              207

stituted. But the natural philosopher, admitting all this,

arrived at his conclusion by another path altogether; and,

after he had reached   it,  ascertained that final cause was at
                                        it a
work here also.            ?

    It was interesting to inquire why, in physical and che

mical science, the progress had been so slow, by the appli

cation of final causes, whereas anatomy had made great

progress by that means though after all, they were only at

the threshold. It was difficult to say why. It probably

had connection with the difference betwixt organised and

inorganised bodies. Every plant or animal formed system
                                                    a
in which every part was related to some common centre, anda

the whole completely organised. In the study of any given

organised body, we had the whole of           before us. We

take into consideration its physical conditions, temperature,

medium, etc., yet each individual organism forms system       a;

we may refer all its parts, configuration, and phenomena, to

principle residing in no other but individuals of the same

species. We are thus enabled to take the whole system into

consideration to enter upon its examination as whole, and to
is                                               a

                ;consider the relations of any part to any other given part we
                                                          ;

thus see the reason why all its parts are adapted to each other.

    It different with regard to inorganised bodies, such as

the sun, whose parts, although constituted with reference to

the wellbeing of parts of our own system, have yet reference

to others. There   is  some common principle which governs

all these and this must be ascertained before we can reason
;

on the forms or uses of the parts of inorganic nature, and see
Ifhow all these parts are related.
                                    it  were possible to get

the whole system of the universe under the eye for examina

tion with our telescopes and microscopes, we should then

have the inorganic world before us in the same position as

the animal or vegetable world, and should then see the

reason for its adaptations.

208  MATHEMATICAL MODES OF

     Although biology had hitherto made great, decided, aiid
certain advances by the superficial method of inquiry, che

mical and mechanical philosophy had gone far beyond it.

Motions, forms, and weights are now subjected to geometrical
analysis, and treated in the abstract, a result which had not
yet been attained in anatomical and physiological science,
but which in time would be so.

     Without trenching upon the important considerations con
nected with soul or spirit, or inquiring into the nature of the

spiritual organs, if any, of the animal or vegetable --philoso

phical questions, with which physiology and anatomy had
nothing to do, yet questions which should not be allowed to
lie uncultivated -- an acquaintance with the principles of phi
losophy in their applications to the physiological sciences
ought to be gained. These constituted a set of sciences based
upon altogether different principles : 1st, on the internal
analysis of their own feelings, their own minds, and the prin
ciples originally implanted within them, by consideration of
which, sound moral and intellectual conclusions were arrived

at ; and, 2d, an inquiry into the mental phenomena, or what
ever they might choose to call them, presented by the lower
animals. This they might perform either by reasoning from
their own intellects downwards, just as they reasoned in
regard to their fellowmen, only passing down the scale ; or
they might compare the mental phenomena of the lower with
those of the higher animals -- thus building up a comparative
psychological science which would become simplified as they
passed down the series, and complex as they passed upwards.

The study by the anatomist and the physiologist, and by every
medical man, as far as the bent of his own mind admitted, of

these results of psychological science, was most important.
     Anatomy had been hitherto advanced by the study of the

animal form and of the exact harmony under which only the
animal could exist. But there was another view that might

INVESTIGATING ORGANIC FORMS.  209

be taken. Was it not possible, by ascertaining the accurate

shape, the form and proportion between the parts, organs, and
whole body of any animal, to advance the study geometrically?
Suppose the anatomist gave the exact curvature of the surface,
the volume and proportions which different parts of the organs

might bear--what their formal geometry was might become
matter of calculation. He might begin, by the lengths, and
breadths, and volumes of the different parts, by ascertaining
whether they have a correspondency, and exhibit a mathema

tical relation, spherical or spheroidal curves, etc. These once
ascertained, he would become certain of the geometrical con
struction, and could reason as to the probable forms of other

parts.

     Impossible as it might appear, this had been effected in
certain instances, and especially in a most beautiful manner

in regard to shells of molluscous animals, by the Eeverend
Professor Moseley, late of Cambridge,* who had made an exact
geometrical examination of shells, and especially of the Tur
bines, which were possessed of a spiral curve wound round a
central axis, which curve had been found to be logarithmic, and
from it had been framed a series of formulm, by winch the other
conditions of the shell could be predicted and found to exist.

      By a very accurate measurement of the shell, mathemati
cally, it was found that its spires increased in breadth in an
exact successive series, each one of which was a multiple, in

a certain ratio, of another. Thus there was a mathematical
principle arrived at, which could be carried out -- the shell

must possess this form, and could possess no other. It had

a spiral curve, and the properties of that curve pointed it
out to be a logarithmic curve, one which would reproduce
itself; a curve formed by a thread wound off the exterior,
would trace the form of its operculum ; and the mouth of
the animal was remarkable for geometrical symmetry. As

                          * Philosophical Transactions, 1838, p. 351.
                                                          P

210  MATHEMATICAL MODES OF

the shell was formed by the soft parts of the animal --

those parts, though not possessed of the rigidity of the

outer shell, yet, if we measured their textures, their relative

proportions and rates of increase, we should also find that

they were formed according to a mathematical law. It was im

possible, therefore, they should not form a general harmony !

How rapidly science advances ! A few years ago it was sup

posed that the capillary vessels would model anything, and

that parts were formed by the extremities of these. But if we

admitted absorption, and the death of precise parts, we might
expect to ascertain the mathematical law of the body. The
period was not far distant when this subject would embrace a
much greater number of mathematical rules. No subject could

better employ those possessed of mathematical talents than
the application of modern analysis to organised bodies. They
must begin with the Mollusca. Professor Moseley had exa

mined only the turbinated and discoid shells. The logarithmic
curves varied in different shells. But it would come to this

at last, that instead of the naturalist describing these bodies
by a long roundabout enumeration of their colours, sizes, etc.,
he would just give the mathematical curves which indicated
them. Thi s was already done in crystallography, where crystals

were classified according to certain geometrical relations.

     By Professor Moseley's investigations matter had been

added to the stock, and something had been done towards
the investigation in this manner of animals and vegetables.

Professor Moseley, by mathematics, had ascertained that a

process must go on, which other naturalists had not discovered

-- namely, by the revolution which the operculum of the
shell must make. It was easily conceived that the oper

culum made a revolution round its axis. The mouth was ot

a particular figure Cut any part in a certain direction (the
direction of the plane of its axis), and every section would
give a form exactly similar to the form of the mouth. The

INVESTIGATING ORGANIC FORMS.  211

form of a turbinated shell was produced by the revolutiou of

the perimeter of the figure round the axis of the shell. In

the Nautilus the figure was that of an ellipse, which revolves
round its minor axis, and increases in geometrical progression

without ever changing its form as it revolves. A turbinated

shell revolving round its axis shows the figure carried forwards
along the axis of revolution, from the apex of the spire to its
termination. They might do this by cutting a piece of paper

to the figure of the turbinated shell. It would be found that the

figure was always the same, but increased. Professor Moseley
ascertained this in two ways -- 1st, after the curve had been
ascertained ; and 2dly, by a very curious investigation of the
operculum. He had ascertained that the spiral possessed the
peculiar properties of a logarithmic spiral ; hence the oper
culum was found to form a very convenient measure of the
shell itself and all its parts. The operculum being fixed, as

the shell increased in size it underwent a gradual increase --

the size of the mouth gradually increased with the size of the

operculum. Now, if the operculum were merely pushed

 forward by the animal, one of two circumstances would occur

--it would either require new calcareous shelly matter (but it

 was not so), or there would be, as indeed was the case, a much

 more precise method of extension by the deposition of addi
 tional matter along the lower margin of the shell which formed
 the tangent of the curve.

      There were other examples of a similar kind. Take one

 of the Goniums, a little animal or vegetable structure existing
 amongst the polygastria, and consisting of four cellules in

 a square plate, as also the Sarcina Ventriculi. The Goniums

 and others were rectangular forms. They were all squares.
 And why ? They reproduced themselves in a geometrical pro
 gression, and that because each individual consisted of four
 cells, and four only, until it was reproduced by other four.
 The law of its reproduction was by a geometrical series

212  MATHEMATICAL MODES OF

multiples of four, in extreme rapidity. Four cells would
always represent a flat figure, and recur in the form of a plate ;
all the angles might not in every case be alike, but it would
always be in laminae. The reproduction of the confervae was
also by the multiplication of cellules. Certain silicious poly-

gastric animals --the Diatomaceaa, and some others --existed in

two halves, reproducing each into two. These would always
form a line, or linear series, increasing in length, and not in
breadth. The line might form a curve, but this linear form
was a necessary consequence of the mode of reproduction.

     This was a sketch of what might be done ; and it ought
to be done by a mathematical investigation of the animal
body, its masses and organs, or what was of more importance,
its ultimate atoms. This was a difficult process, but we
should not despair of arriving at it. Suppose the science

were so far advanced that we could obtain the formal mathe

matical expression of forms, the same as astronomers did
before the time of Newton, when they ascertained the motions
of the planets in their orbits, and the curves that bounded

these bodies. Newton, from the geometric forms, made out

THE LAW OF THE FORCE.

     We have merely to ascertain the law of the force. This
can never be done till we have got the mathematical forms.
We are probably far from this. But meanwhile science makes
great progress on the principle explained at the beginning of
this lecture. There is room to get into another inquiry

naturalists have never dreamed of, probably from not having
had a mathematical education. Those of them who had such,

and a taste for biological studies, would do well to carry out
the mathematical study. What the chemical and other forces
had to do in the animal economy could only be made out after

the forms of matter were found out. It by no means trenched
on the other department --the mental and spiritual -- although

the two went together.

investigating organic forms.  213

                                   Lecture 2.

     Professor Moseley's paper contains the germ of what would
yet form a new epoch in natural science, though known only
to a few mathematicians, who probably considered it merely as

a curious and ingenious memoir.
     As a very remarkable coincidence, Newton had shown in

his Principia that if attraction had generally varied as the in

verse cube instead of as the inverse square of the distance, the
heavenly bodies would revolve, not in ellipses but in logarith
mic spirals, rapidly diffuse themselves, and rush off into space.

It would be curious that if the law of the square were the law

of attraction, the law of the cube might therefore prove to be
the law of production. He did not say that this was the case.

But if this law of force were admitted, and cellules grew by a

certain law, we could thereby explain how all cellules passed
off from one another, and how all form was produced -- namely,
in a rapidly-increasing geometrical ratio, instead of revolving
round an axis. Probably the logarithmic spiral would be
found to be the law at work in the increase of organic bodies.

     Another remarkable confirmation of the possibility of
carrying out the principle of geometrical investigation where
we would least expect to find it ; in reference to the forms of
the most highly-organised bodies with which we are acquainted,
but which had yet been found to be bounded by geometric

figures, has recently been pointed out.
      For the examination of the geometric outline of the human

body we are indebted to Mr. D. R Hay*

      By the geometrical construction of a diagram, we should
now be enabled to trace the outline of the skeleton ; and all

the leading parts of the body would come out exactly as they

ought to be.

     * On the Human Figure, 4to, 1849 ; Natural Principles of Beauty, 1852 ;

 The Science of Beauty, 1856.

214  MATHEMATICAL MODES OF

    In order not to involve what was undeniable in Mr. Hay's
theory in any hypothesis -- and those who had studied Mr.

Hay's works would know that much in them was based on
harmonical theories --these last should be kept out of view.

What might be shown was, that the artist accustomed to draw
the outline of the figure could do so, and would thereby find

his figure better proportioned, nor would he be liable to com

mit those glaring blunders, which, however good figures might
be artistically, were offensive to the critical anatomical eye.

      The first diagram in Mr. Hay's book* was that of a female
figure seen in front with the arms by the side. Mr. Hay first
drew a line which represents the full height of the figure.
From the upper extremity of this line he drew lines making
with it respectively angles equal to 1-3d, 1-4th, 1-5th, and
 1-6th of a right angle ; and from the lower extremity a line
 making 1-8th of a right angle. The point in which the two
 last lines, making respectively 1-6th and 1-8th of a right
 angle, intersect one another determines the semi-breadth of

 the figure. Passing through the upper extremity of the ver
 tical line, a circle and three ellipses were described -- the line
 which joins the extremities of the axes major and minor of
 the first ellipse being the first of the lines above drawn, and
 that which joins the extremities of the axes of the second
 being the third of the said lines. These give the skull,

 face, and neck. A third ellipse, similar to the first of these,

 but larger, represents the body. The other lines are few and
 simple in their relations, the characteristic being that they make
 an angle of 1-3d and 1-5th of a right angle with the vertical

 line. It will be seen that the ruling feature in Mr. Hay's

 theory is that position is determined by direction, not by distance.

      The diagrams show how, in the very simplest way, by
 integral divisions of a right angle, a succession of lines had
 been attained which corresponded precisely to the position of

                   * Natural Princi/ilf.t nf Beauty, Plate I. Figs. 1 and 2.

INVESTIGATING ORGANIC FORMS.  215

the symphysis of the lower jaw -- the lower part of the

 chin ; the upper part of the dorsal vertebrae ; the tip of
the shoulder -- upper end of the humerus (showing also the
breadth) ; the upper part of the sternum -- and average posi

tion of the upper parietes ; the middle of the dorsal region --

sixth and seventh dorsal vertebne ; the nipple in the female ;
the upper part of the lumbar, and lower part of the dorsal
region ; the exact position of the elbow-joint ; the upper part
of the pelvis -- the haunch-bones ; the lower edge of the last
lumbar vertebrae ; the upper part of the sacrum ; the line so
long familiar to artists as dividing the body and correspond
ing with the upper part of the pelvis ; the tip of the longest
finger -- a remarkable feature in drawing the body ; and the
upper end of the tibia, one-fourth of the body.

      Undoubtedly, in all organic bodies, as they had seen in a few
examples, certain geometrical principles would be discovered,

and though Mr. Hay's diagram was artificial and empirical,
because it had been used empirically in the meantime, yet it
gave correctly all the parts.

     Mr. Hay had at first proceeded by following theoretical

views. He believed the human body to be beautiful, and to
give pleasure artistically because it included certain symme
trical and geometrical forms.

     His investigations were limited at first to the human head,
the anterior part of which he had found to be spheroidal, and

the posterior, seen from the side, from above, and from below,

to be included in a sphere and oblate spheroid, formed by the
revolution of a circle and an ellipse. These figures enclosed

certain triangles. The triangle of the circle was a right-angled
isosceles triangle ; the triangle of the ellipse a right-angled
scalene. They varied, according to their peculiar character,
within certain limits.

     With these views he had been able, by continuing the

system of geometrical construction, which he had found sue

216  MATHEMATICAL MODES OF

cessful in the geometrical analysis of the head, downwards
through the thorax and body, and by a series of measurements
of individuals, to construct triangles and figures in combina
tion, enclosing within them the great outlines of the body.

    In the first place, dividing the figure into five parts, on

each of which an equilateral triangle was produced or formed,

doubling the right-angled scalene triangle, whose angles
were 30°, 60°, and 90°, he got the breadth of the shoulders

and various points of the figure. A remarkable confirmation

of Mr. Hay's views was arrived at by the division of the body
into five, which might be effected by continuing downwards
the equilateral triangle contained within the second oval of
the head in a succession of figures. By this succession they
had also the breadth of the figure.

      The angles of the first right-angled equilateral triangle
were 45°, 45°, and 90° ; those of the second, or scalene, being
half of the equilateral triangle, 30°, 60°, and 90° ; and those of
the third, or right-angled triangle, being the primary angle of
the pentagon, as seen at the neck, 18°, 72°, and 90°. The
ratio of the angles in the right-angled equilateral triangle was
as 1 to 2, in the scalene as 1 to 3, and in the third right-
angled triangle as 1 to 5. The angles of the other triangles

were 22° 30', 67° 30', and 90° ; and 11° 15', 78° 45', and 90°,

and their ratios 1 to 4, and 1 to 8 ; whilst the angles of the re
maining triangle were 15°, 75°, and 90° -- the angle at the
apex bearing a ratio to the right angle of 1 to 6.

      They would thus find that, in regard to the various angles,
Mr. Hay had arrived at them partly on theoretical views.
He was just as much entitled to theorise as any other man of
science. No discovery had ever been made without hypothesis.
He had started, expecting to find in the proportions of the
human frame a musical harmony ; and, by continual measur
ing, had at last been able to construct a figure, partly hypo-
thetically, but which was found to correspond with nature.

INVESTIGATING ORGANIC FORMS.       217

Having arrived at these conclusions in a legitimate manner;

he found the tonic repeated thrice, the dominant twice, and

the mediate once. The ratios, which they would perceive the

angles of the triangles bore, as laid down, were ratios which

held in the musical chord. By simply prolonging the trans

verse lines of the diagram, a perpendicular line would be

intersected in a series of fractional parts, all of which were
Ifindicated in the musical scale.
                                   this perpendicular were a

musical string set a-vibrating, it would vibrate, for instance,

first as a whole string, then as two halves or octaves, then as

third parts or fifths ; another set of vibrations repeated the
octaves--viz. fourth parts or double octaves ; another series

of vibrations divided the chord into fifth parts or thirds, eta

This was certainly very remarkable. The artist who drew

as Mr. Hay directed would produce a figure infinitely more

correct than by the mere eye or a prolonged study of figures.

It was remarkable that the angles which he had attained by

correcting himself, by careful measurement, and by preserving

a certain ratio of one to another, should repeat themselves at

intervals representing musical intervals.

    In the female figure the common or primary chord of

music, where 2, 3, and 5 were the leading numbers, was indi

cated. The male form differed essentially and materially

from the female. Mr. Hay had begun his researches with the

female form. It was necessary for him also to construct a

diagram of the male ; and he had made trials, but not at
random, from which he thought it probable that the male

differed from the female in harmonic ratio. By making the

figure on a dominant triangle, for which, instead of 30°,

he took 33° 45' (and this related to the dominant angle
in the female, in the mathematical ratio of 9 to 8, or, to

express it musically, as a major tone to a minor tone), he was

enabled to construct a diagram for the male into which you

can't draw a female figure ! It comes out a male ! It would

218               MATHEMATICAL MODES OF

be remembered that the breadth of the pelvis was less, and the

outlines of the thigh-bones were situated closer together, in the
male than in the female ; that also in the female the knees were

brought together. Besides these distinctive marks, Mr. Hay
had, moreover, of himself, brought in the female elbow and
bent out the wrist ; although he was not aware, till he (Pro
fessor Goodsir) had told him, of the difference in this respect

between the sexes -- for in a well-made man the arm was

always perfectly straight. This showed that, however artifi

cial the system, the artist might depend upon it for giving to

the figure the correct anatomy in its great leading features.
The breadth of the thorax from side to side had been ascer

tained by the general angle, which gave the breadth of the

male thorax (33° 45'), and so increased in like proportion.

In regard to the depth, by assuming the angle 30° again, and

taking the average depth of both male and female ; on the
harmonic hypothesis the angle for production of the equi
lateral triangle, half of which gave the depth of it in the

female, would be 27°. Now 33° 45' to 30° is as 9 to 8 ;

whereas in the female, 30° is to 27° as 10 to 9 -- these being

the ratios of the major and minor tones in the science of

musical harmony.

This very ingenious piece of research was an approach to

those principles indicated in the previous day's and this day's

lectures. With regard to Mr. Hay's views, if they followed

the directions in the diagram, they would be mechanically

correct in filling up, which a Httle practice would enable them

to do, for the male as well as for the female, the outline of a

figure anatomically correct.
IfThis was an extremely useful result.
                                         they were to view

it in no other light, artists were greatly indebted to Mr. Hay.

This could not be denied. And, without involving himself

or them in the hypothesis on which it depended --in the ratio

of angles, or the number of times which they were repeated

INVESTIGATING ORGANIC FORMS.                    219

--they were not to despise that hypothesis, because it was

by working it out Mr. Hay had been enabled to frame this

diagram. They could not deny that harmonic proportion

was something, if they admitted the diagram to afford a
correct anatomical outline ; for it must exist in nature.

This was something like an approach to a general geomet

rical inclusion of the surface of the body by the revolution

of triangles, and the perimeters of certain figures, including
Ifcertain masses of the body.
                               they included the general

mass, there was reason to expect that the outline of the sub

ordinate parts would be arrived at by a process of the same

kind. They were all produced by some law, according to
Ifwhich the parts of the body were formed.
                                                this law were

complete, they should have a formal anatomy of the body --
a geometrical outline, however complicated --a complex geo

metry --but they must believe in it. There were no parts
of the body not injured--not even parts diseased-- that were

not geometrical structures, however complex. It was only

after knowing these they could arrive at the law of the force.
     He had not, in this hurried manner, been able to do that

justice he was anxious to see done to Mr. Hay's not merely

ingenious diagram ; but by the lecture of yesterday and to-day,

although not yet in the exact scientific position reached with

regard to the shell by Professor Moseley, yet he was desirous

to show that the harmony and geometrical analysis of the

human body, by continuing the research, would rapidly ad

vance that department of biological knowledge.

220  ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT.

IX.-- ON THE HORIZONTAL CURVATURE OF THE
    INTERNAL FEMORAL CONDYLE ; ON THE MOVE
    MENTS AND RELATIONS OF THE PATELLA,
    SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES, AND SYNOVIAL
    PADS OF THE HUMAN K^EE-JOINT.

Assuming the ordinary descriptions of the human knee-joint,
and the more precise observations of the brothers Weber

I(Mechanik der Menschlichcn Gchwerkzeugc, 1836), as present

ing the present state of information on the subject, shall
proceed to explain the arrangement and use of the peculiar
curvature at the fore-part of the inner condyle of the femur,
as recently determined by Professor Meyer of Zurich (Die
Meehanik des Kniegeleriks, Mullet's Archiv., 1853) ; and the
movements and relations of the patella, semilunar cartilages,
and synovial pads of the articulation, as observed by myself.

I Before entering on the peculiarities of the inner condyle,
   may remind you that the knee-joint consists of two articu
lations, with a common synovial membrane, the patello-
femoral, and the femoro-tibial. the latter being double. The
articular surface of the femur is consequently divided into
a trochlea for the former, and two condyles for the latter ;
the condyles being separated from one another by the inter-
condyloid fossa, and from the trochlea by two shallow oblique

grooves.
      Anatomists had not hitherto noticed that the so-called

obliquity of the inner condyle of the femur is in fact, as
Meyer has pointed out, a curvature of its anterior third, with

ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT.  221

its concavity directed backwards, outwards, and downwards.
The two posterior thirds of the inner condyle pass backwards

parallel to, and have the same general form and extent as, the
entire outer condyle of the bone. The curved portion or
anterior third of the usually so-called inner condyle may
therefore be conceived as a part intercalated between the
patellar trochlea and the proper inner condyle.

     According to Meyer, the mechanical advantages which
result from the peculiar antero-posterior curvatures of the
femoral condyles, which the brothers Weber concluded, from
their admeasurements, to be spirals, may be with greater
simplicity assumed to consist, as his own admeasurements
suggest, each of two circular segments, the posterior of 120°,
the anterior of 40°, the radius of the former being to that of

the latter as 5 to 9. The horizontal curvature at the fore-part
of the inner condyle, or, more precisely, the oblique curvature,
may, as Meyer states, be conceived as a segment of 60° of the
margin of the base of a cone, the axis of which is directed at
an angle of 45° downwards, outwards, and backwards, in front
of the spine of the tibia, so that its apex is situated in the
external condyle of that bone.

    In flexion and extension, therefore, of the knee-joint, as

long as these movements are confined to the outer condyle,
and the two posterior thirds of the inner condyle of the femur
with the condyles of the tibia, they take place round two
transverse axes, which pass respectively through the centres
of the posterior antero-posterior circular curvatures of the
femoral condyles, and the centres of the anterior. To simplify
the conception, however, of this part of the arrangement,
Meyer assumes as sufficiently accurate a single transverse
axis.

    In the first third of flexion, and in the latter third of ex

tension, the movements of the femur and tibia take place
round the oblique curvature or anterior third of the internal

222     ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT.

femoral condyle ; and involve, in addition to the completion
and commencement of flexion and extension respectively, a

movement of rotation of the tibia and consequently of the

leg and foot inwards in the former, and outwards in the latter.
These remarkable movements of rotation inwards and out

wards, inseparable from the commencement of flexion and the

completion of extension, take place round the axis of the

ideal cone already alluded to. This axis Meyer denominates

the oblique axis of the knee-joint.

     These movements of rotation, combined witli flexion and

extension, must be carefully distinguished from those of which

the joint is capable when considerably flexed. The latter,

with which anatomists are already familiar, take place, in

general terms, round a prolongation of the axis of the tibia.

This axis Meyer denominates the rotation-axis of the knee-

joint.

     The most remarkable ligament concerned in the move

ments round the oblique axis of the joint is the external cru

cial, which becomes tightened in extension, as the movement

round the oblique curvature of the inner condyle proceeds,

and thus acts, from its obliquity, in a direction from below, up

wards, backwards, and outwards, so as to guide the rotation

of the tibia outwards.

     The discovery of the oblique axis of the knee-joint has

enabled Meyer to determine with greater precision the action

of certain muscles of the thigh. The use of the peculiar mode

of insertion, hitherto unexplained, of the sartorius, gracilis,

and semitendinosus, becomes evident. Their tendons, passing

down behind the inner side of the knee, curve forwards and

outwards on the tibia; so that these muscles effect that

rotation inwards which is a necessary accompaniment of the

commencement of flexion. These muscles produce this
rotation directly--that
        ;                      by an adaptation of their tendons

                          is,
to the purpose but, according to Meyer, the proper flexors

          ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT.                223

of the knee, the biceps and semimembranosus, only act in

directly as rotators, through the medium of the articular
                         I conceive, however, that the
surfaces and ligaments.

latter may act directly in producing rotation inwards at the

commencement of flexion ; for its tendon, instead of being

inserted, as is usually stated, into the back part of the inner

tibial condyle, passes forwards and outwards round the head

of the bone in a distinct groove, in which it moves, being kept

in its place by prolongations of the internal lateral ligaments

of the joint, and thus presenting the same general mode of

insertion as the three muscles already alluded to.

The rotation outwards, at the completion of extension, is

produced indirectly by the quadriceps-extensor ; the form of

the articular surfaces, and the tightening of the external

crucial ligament, co-operating with the group of extensor

muscles.

Meyer has detected a very beautiful adaptation of parts in

connection with this latter movement, and has thus explained

the characteristic enlargement, and the extensive attachment

to the patella, of the vastus internus muscle. When the knee

is extended, the'ligamentum patellae, instead of being perpen
dicular, will be found to pass downwards and outwards to its

tibial attachment, which has moved outwards in the rotation

of the leg. The lower portion of the vastus internus is en

larged, and the upper portion of its tendon is attached to the

greater part of the inner edge of the patella, for the purpose

of preventing that bone from being pressed against the outer

part of the femoral trochlea during the rotation outwards of

the leg, by drawing it inwards and upwards, and keeping its

axis in the line of the ligamentum patellae ; while the lower

portion of its tendon passes down to be attached somewhat

obliquely to the inner side of the head of the tibia, and thus

assists directly in rotating the leg outwards.

Meyer has also shown that, in standing quietly upright

224  ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT.

on one or both limbs, the knees are not necessarily kept
straight by continued action of the extensor muscles, for the
ligaments of the patella may be slack The continued
extension cannot be the effect of the superincumbent pressure
of the body, for the transverse plane, in which the common
centre of gravity is situated, lies behind the transverse axes
of the knee-joints. Two arrangements conduce to this re
markable example of economy in muscular action. When the
foot is on the ground, and the knee extended, the inward
rotation of the leg in the commencement of flexion cannot

take place ; and if the pelvis and trunk are kept erect, the

reverse rotation of the thigh-bone outwards is prevented by
the tightened condition of the ileo-femoral band of the hip-

joint : but if the trunk and pelvis be inclined forwards,

although the ileo-femoral band is relaxed, and the femur
relieved, the tendency to flexion of the knee-joint is removed
by the passage of the line of gravity to the front of the
transverse axis of the articulation. The thick longitudinal
band of the fascia lata on the outer side of the thigh, ex
tending from the anterior superior spinous process of the
ileum, and from the inferior attachment of the tensor vagina
femoris to the fore part of the outer condyle of the tibia
(ligamentum ileotibiale), is another arrangement for econo
mising muscular exertion ; for as long as the pelvis is kept
erect on the heads of the thigh-bones by the glutei maximi
muscles, it is evident that these ileo-tibial bands must tend to

keep the knees extended, and transfer the action of the
quadriceps-extensor to the great muscle of the hip.

     The patella exhibits various interesting relations during
the movements of the joint ; and in addition to those observed

by Meyer, others hitherto unrecorded may be pointed out.
Meyer states that the under half of the patella is in contact
with the femoral trochlea in extension, and the upper half in

flexion ; but if the bone is carefully examined, the following

ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT.  225

configuration and relation of its articular surface will be
detected. Instead of two faces, a greater external, and a

lesser internal, separated by a perpendicular ridge, as usually
described, the surface presents, in every instance, six, frequently
seven, facets, separated from one another by two perpendicular
and two transverse ridges. The external perpendicular ridge
is the one commonly described. The internal cuts off a small
elongated perpendicular facet at the inner edge of the surface.
The two transverse ridges only extend inwards to the inner

perpendicular ridge, so as to separate from above, downwards,
two superior, two middle, and one or two inferior facets, the
external of the two latter being constant. The relations of the

articular surface of the patella present four groups. In

complete flexion, the internal or perpendicular facet is in
contact with a remarkable crescentic facet, which bounds the

oblique curvature of the inner condyle of the femur. In none

of the other positions of the joint is this internal patellar facet
in contact with an opposite cartilaginous surface, but is
covered or sheathed by what may be denominated the internal

patellar pad. At the same time, the external superior facet

lies upon the fore part of the external condyle of the femur

below and behind its bounding groove. These two facets are
the only parts of the patella which come in contact with the
proper femoral condyles. They do so only in complete flexion ;
and in this state all the remaining facets are in contact with

the great infra-patellar pad, and the so-called mucous liga

ment.

    In the second stage of extension, the superior internal and
external facets are in contact with the inferior portions,

respectively of the inner and outer halves of the femoral
trochlea ; the internal perpendicular facet being sheathed as
before stated ; and the remaining facets being in contact with
the great infra-patellar pad.

    In the third stage of extension, the superior internal and

                                                                             Q

226  ANATOMY OK THE KNEE-JOINT.

external facets leave the femoral trochlea and become sheathed,

and the space occupied partly by the supra-patellar, but
principally by the supra-trochlear pads. The middle internal
and external patellar facets now come in contact with the
middle portions respectively of the inner and outer halves of
the femoral trochlea ; while the internal perpendicular and
the two inferior facets are sheathed and padded as before.

    In the fourth or last stage of extension, the middle internal

and external facets also recede from the surface of the trochlea,

and along with the internal longitudinal already sheathed,
become applied against the fore part of the femur above its
articular surface, the intervening space being stuffed by the
oapra-patellar, supra-trochlear, and upper pads, in the ascending

cul-de-sac of the synovial membrane. In this last stage,

the only portions of the patella in contact with the cartilaginous
surface of the femur, are the inferior internal and external

facets, or the latter, if one only exists. These slip somewhat

abruptly upwards and inwards upon a narrow ledge or furrow,
which terminates the femoral trochlea above, and forms a

resting-place for the inferior facets of the patella in the
complete extension of the joint.

      Attention should be directed to the fact, that the patella,
in complete flexion, lies so much to the outer side of the
joint as to leave the inner condyle, with the exception of
the crescentic facet, exposed in front. Meyer has pointed
out that the external position assumed by the patella in

complete flexion depends on the external patellar retina
culum, which consists of two oblique bands, extending from
the outer edge of the bone to the anterior margin of the
ileo-tibial band of the fascia lata already alluded to ; and

which, as it slips backward during flexion, drags the patella
by means of the external retinaculum outwards.

     In complete extension, again, the patella lies at the inner

side of the upper end of the joint, with its long axis directed

ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT.  227

outwards and downwards. It assumes this position under

the action of the lower portion of the vastus intemus, which

may now he considered as an adductor patellae. It will be

observed also, that the passage forwards of the lower end of

the ileo-tibial band, and the consequent slackening of the
external retinaculum, permits the bone to take up this internal

position. In consequence, therefore, of the movements of the

patella, in harmony with the oblique rotations of the knee-
joint, the bone, under the influence of its external retinaculum,
and of the lower part of the vastus internus, describes a curved
path, the concavity of which is directed upwards and outwards.

It is also guided in this path by the form and direction of the

femoral trochlea, and particularly by its upper and outer
portion, which, as is well known, projects considerably

upwards, forwards, and inwards, so as to convey the patella
to the inner side.

     The spaces, which would otherwise be produced by the
recession of certain parts of the cartilaginous surfaces from
one another in the movements of some joints, are occu

pied by movable and yielding structures of two kinds--

interarticular nbro-cartilages, and the so-called Haversian
glands, which may be denominated synovial pads. The for

mer occur when resistance to pressure is to be provided, the
latter when space is only to be occupied. The semilunar
fibro-cartilages of the knee belong to the former category ;
and the brothers Weber have pointed out generally how
these elastic crescentic masses move backwards and for

wards in the flexion and extension of the joint. But Meyer
has indicated with greater precision their peculiar functions.
The external semilunar cartilage must be viewed as an ap
pendage to the external condyle of the femur, with which it
moves backwards in flexion, forwards in extension. These

movements are facilitated by its circular form, the approxi
mation of its horns, its non-attachment to the anterior external

228            ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT.

lateral ligament, although the posterior external lateral

ligament gives off a peculiar arrangement to support its

posterior limb. The internal semilunar fibro-cartilage, again,

must be regarded as an appendage to the internal condyle of

the tibia, to which it is fixed by the two internal lateral

ligaments. It resembles a curved, yielding, but elastic railway

on the upper surface of the inner condyle of the tibia, along

which the corresponding condyle of the femur rolls backwards

and forwards.

     The term of synovial pad may be applied to the mass of

vascular fat covered by the synovial membrane, and usually

called a Haversian gland, or synovial vascular fringe. Some
Iyears ago,
               directed attention to the structure and rela

tions of these bodies, as corroborating the opinion of Havers

regarding their function (Anat. and Pathological Observations,

p. 42 *), and have now ascertained that, in addition to their

probable function in supplying synovia, they act undoubtedly

as movable stuffing-pads, which not only smear the synovia

over the opposite cartilaginous surfaces, but steady the move

ments of the joints by passing into the spaces left between

the surfaces during action. These pads are so constant in

their form and relations as to indicate the general character

of the movements the joint is capable of.

     The principal structure of this kind in the knee-joint is

the great infra-patellar pad--the mass in connection with the
so-called alar and mucous ligaments. It presents a posterior

free surface of a quadrilateral form, which is applied against

the cartilaginous surface of the femur, principally in the

extended condition of the joint ; a superior free margin cut
into two lobes, which fill up the variable angular space

between the femur and patella, being forced upwards from

below by the so-called flabelliform ligaments of the patella ;

an inferior free margin, also divided into two lobes, separated

               * No. XXVII. of this volume.

ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT.  229

from one another by the attachment of the mucous ligament,
and which, in the nearly extended state of the joint, is pulled
back into the angular space between the condyles of the femur
and the tibial aspect of the articulation by the traction of the
mucous ligament ; and, in the flexed condition, is forced back
wards by the pressure of the atmosphere.

      The supra-patellar pad is adapted to a deep and charac
teristic notch, which exists between the upper end of the
patella and the tendon of the quadriceps extensor. This would
appear to adapt the tendon to the bone in the varied antero
posterior angular positions of the two parts during action.

     The lateral patellar pad is the pouch-like fold which

sheathes the internal longitudinal facet of the patella.

      The great and the supra-trochlear pads are situated, the
former at the upper and outer part of the great cul-de-sac of

the synovial membrane ; the latter, a larger external and
smaller internal, towards the upper part of the outer face of the

trochlea. These fill up the space between the patella and
the fore part of the femur above the trochlea in complete

extension.

   I may conclude by adverting shortly to the remarkable

facetted configuration of the articular cartilages of the knee-
joint, a structure which has hitherto escaped notice. In
a previous part of this lecture the facets of the patella have
been described ; which bone, from the variable projections of

these facets, exhibits sometimes a concavity, sometimes a

convexity, and occasionally a flat profile.
     On the surface of the tibial condyles the following facets

may be demonstrated :--a semilunar facet on each condyle,

corresponding to the under surfaces of the semilunar fibro-
cartilages, and separated by faint but distinct blunt ridges
from a central femoral facet on each condyle, the latter in
contact with the femoral cartilage.

      On the femur, in addition to the trochlea separated from

230  ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT.

the condyles proper by the oblique grooves, and presenting,
particularly in aged and slightly-diseased examples, traces of
the three successive stages in the position of the patella, there
are on the condyles semilunar tibial facets separated by faint
ridges, and in contact with the upper surfaces of the semilunar
cartilages, and uncovered portions, or femoral facets of the
tibia. On the inner condyle of the femur, and bounding the

oblique curvature, is the important crescentic facet already

described.

                      MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.                             231

X.-- ON THE MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.*

The physiology of the locomotory system, and especially that
of the joints, has been hitherto much neglected. Even in
Henle's elaborate System of Anatomy, now in course of publi
cation, there is a lingering tendency to adhere to the formal

method of description ; and though presenting much freshness
and minuteness of description in his account of the articu

lations, he has scarcely done justice to the results latterly
attained by the physical physiologists in this department

of the science.

The first step towards an anatomy of the joints adequate
to the physiology of the locomotory system --that
                                                         1                     an
                                                                          is,
anatomy based on details affording data for precise mechanical
investigation -- was taken by Ed. and Wilh. Weber.f

     As bearing on my present communication, shall merely

indicate the more important results obtained by the Webers

in their examination of the knee-joint, as these appear to me

to involve the first germ of the correct conception of the me
chanical constitution of the diarthrodial joints.

The knee-joint cannot be considered as hinge-joint,
a 2. 1.                     a
                                                          a
             it
inasmuch as does not present fixed axis.

The femoral condyles roll, and at the same time glide,

like wheel partially restrained by the drag, forwards in

* This paper was read in detail before the Royal Society of Edinburgh,

January 18, 1858, but only an abstract was printed in the Proceedings of that

date. As the essay was found in its complete form amongst the author's

t                           here in cxtenso. -- Eds.

                        it
papers, we reproduce

Mcchanik der MenscJdichen Gehwerkzeiuje Gdttingen 1836.
                                                      :

232  MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.

extension, backwards in flexion, on the nearly horizontal
surface of the tibia.

     3. By a peculiar arrangement, certain ligaments become
tightened when the knee is extended, and the column or shaft
of the limb becomes rigid, and thus fitted more particularly
for the mechanical support of the body in its erect position.

     4. The arrangement by which these ligaments become

alternately tightened and slackened, is the antero-posterior

spiral curvature of the femoral condyles ; the ligaments in

question being attached above to the neighbourhood of the
polar extremities of the curves, are consequently drawn up
and put on the stretch in extension, let down and slackened
in flexion.

      5. The ligaments relaxed in flexion permit a rotation of
36° in the horizontal plane of the joint, during which the inner
condyle of the femur is comparatively fixed, while the outer
describes a curve, like the front-wheels of a carriage in pass
ing round a corner. These observations of the Webers on the
knee-joint were published in 1836, but have in no respect
 modified the current modes of viewing and describing this

 important articulation.

     H. Meyer published, in Miiller's Archivs for 1853, in the
 course of a series of memoirs on the mechanics of the human
 skeleton, his observations on the knee-joint. The most im
 portant features of this memoir are the observations on the
 curvatures of the femoral condyles and on the axis of the

 articulation. Viewing the patellar as distinct from the two
 condyloid portions of the joint, he pointed out for the first
 time a feature of the internal condyle of the femur which had
 previously escaped notice in its proper form. The two pos
 terior thirds of this condyle are on the whole parallel to, and
 of the same length as, the entire external condyle. The pre
 viously-recognised greater length, and so-called obliquity, of

 the inner condyle, depends on the addition of a portion curved

MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.  233

in a plane, oblique at once to the antero-posterior plane of the
condyle and to the horizontal plane of the joint, and inter
calated between the antero-posterior portion of the condyle
and the patellar surface. This intercalated portion may, ac
cording to Meyer, be conceived as a segment of the base of a
cone, the vertex of which, in the erect position of the limb, is
situated in the external condyle of the tibia, with its axis

directed from above forwards and inwards, to below, back

wards and outwards. The curve extends over 60°, and the
axis of the generating cone inclined 45° to the horizontal.

      This axis he distinguishes as the oblique axis of the joint,
and round it the leg and thigh are compelled to rotate, at the
 close of extension and the commencement of flexion, when
 the conical surface in question is in contact with the lateral
 internal and anterior part of the inter-condyloid spine of the
 tibia and the anterior crucial ligament.

      Referring to the unsatisfactory character of the series- of
 co-ordinates on which the Webers based their assumption of
 an equiangular spiral as the profile curvature of the femoral
 condyles, Meyer concluded from measurements procured from
 outlines of the curve made by means of a tracing-frame and a
 telescope, that its posterior and anterior portions may be safely
 assumed to be arcs of two circles, respectively 120° and 40°,
 the radius of the former being to that of the latter as 5 to 9.
 He conceives, therefore, that there are two transverse axes of
 rotation in the knee-joint, an anterior and a posterior ; but
 holds that, in treating the subject, one transverse axis only
  need be assumed.

        Whatever exceptions may be taken to Meyer's double
  transverse axis, and to his assumed circular profile curve of the
  femoral condyles, there can be no doubt of the general correct
  ness and great value of his observations on the so-called oblique
  rotation of the joint, the corresponding arrangement of the
  inner condyle, the coadjusted movements of the patella, and

234  MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.

 the harmonised attachments of the related muscles. It is

 therefore somewhat remarkable that Henle, in his recent

 work, should have referred to Meyer's researches only to deny
 the specific character of the obliquely-curved portion of the

 inner condyle.

    I may here be permitted to state that, having been in the
Ihabit, since became a public teacher of anatomy, of explain

Iing the researches of the brothers Weber on the knee-joint,

 lost no time, after the appearance of Meyer's paper, in re
examining the subject. An abstract of Meyer's observations,
with additional observations made by myself, were published
in a lecture in summer 1855, an abstract of which appeared

Iat the time.* have since annually gone over the subject in

the University, and as the results in question bear essentially

Ion the more immediate subject of this communication, shall

briefly enumerate them.

   I obtained, then, satisfactory evidence that, as stated by

Meyer, the thigh and leg rotate in opposite directions at the
close of extension and at the commencement of flexion, and

that the co-ordinated arrangements for these movements, in
the patella, the ligaments, and muscles, are such as described

Iby him. But, in addition, found that the cartilaginous sur

faces of the patella, femur, and tibia, respectively, are not
continuous but facetted surfaces.

     The patellar surface presents seven facets, which are in
no position of the joint, at the same time, all in contact
with the opposite femoral surface, nor can be made to fit it
throughout in any position of the opposite bones ; but come
into contact with that surface in a determined order of succes
sion, which is invariable. The patellar surface of the femur,

as has been more particularly pointed out by Meyer, is sepa
rated from the two condyloid surfaces by grooves ; but in

Iaddition, found that there are distinct marginal facets on the

   * Edinburgh MedicalJournal, July 1855 ; also No. IX. of this volume.

MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.  235

condyles corresponding to, and rolling- upon, the semilunar
fibre-cartilages ; and distinct from their remaining or central
portions, which are in contact with and roll upon the central
cartilaginous facets of the tibial condyles. The oblique curved
surface at the fore part of the inner condyle is a distinct facet,
which at the close of extension and at the commencement of
flexion moves upon and is in contact with the internal anterior
cartilaginous surface of the intercondyloid spine of the tibia ;
and with the tibial attachment of the anterior crucial liga
ment ; and in extreme flexion is then, and then only, in contact
with one of the seven facets of the patella, which patellar facet,
in no other position of the joint, touches any other cartilagi
nous surface, but is provisionally sheathed with a synovial

fold.

     The two tibial condyloid articular surfaces also present
distinct semilunar facets, and central facets for the central

facets of the femoral articular surfaces.

    In consequence of this facetted configuration, and the

peculiar curvatures of the opposite cartilaginous surfaces, the
latter are in no position of the joint coincident throughout ;
but gape more or less in different parts of their extent.

    In addition to the previously-recognised function of the

semilunar fibre-cartilages as tough elastic structures for adapt
ing the opposite femoral and tibial surfaces to one another,
the so-called Haversian glands, in addition to their lubricating
function, are arranged for a similar purpose. Every space or
gap between the opposite surfaces of the patella, femur, and
tibia, not provided for by the semilunar fibre-cartilages, is sup

plied, when it appears, with an invariable, vascular, fatty
synovial pad, which is forced into the chink or pulled out

again by special arrangements ; and thus, not only do these
pads support, and render steady, the movements of the joints,

but lubricate the moving surfaces during action.

    Since the publication of these results, I have annually

;236 MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.a;
                           (a
        is,devoted much attention to the configuration, movements, and
relations of the opposite cartilaginous surfaces of the diarthro-
dial joints. The details with reference to special articulationsis

I Ishall reserve for future communications ; at present will;

merely refer to certain general results, which bear more parti
cularly on the mechanism of the knee-joint.

    In all diarthrodial articular surfaces there are facets, more

or less pronounced, situated at the opposite extremities of the
lines of movement. These may be conveniently designated
terminal facets. They are not primarily engaged in guiding
or conditioning the movements, although they frequently
modify their initial and terminal portions. These terminal
facets are essentially surfaces against which, and on which,
the opposite bones come to rest.

     The proper acting area in each of the opposite articular
surfaces after eliminating the terminal facets, comparatively
limited, and may generally be observed to present two facets.
These opposite facets act in pairs pair consisting of one on
each surface), acting together in the movement in one direc
tion the other pair in the opposite alternate movement. The
pair of facets not in action break contact, or gape, during the
action of the facets engaged and the chink between them

occupied by synovia or by fatty pad.
     But even the acting facets, during their movements, are

only partially in contact. They are only coincident when the
facets approach or have reached the limit of their movement
in their proper direction that is, when the flexion-facets --
as they may be conveniently termed -- have completed flexion,

or when the extension-facets have completed extension. In

these latter stages of the movements of the acting facets, when
they come into contact, the corresponding terminal facets close
also. The acting facets may, even at the conclusion of then-
proper action, break contact, and .the entire joint rest on the
corresponding terminal facets.

MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.  237

     The movements of opposite diarthrodial surfaces on one
another appear to be in every instance a combination of
gliding and rolling ; the amount of gliding being directly, and
the rolling inversely, as the coincidence of the opposite arti

cular surfaces.

     An important addition has recently been made to our
conceptions of the mechanical constitution of joints, by the
nearly simultaneous publication of memoirs by Langer and
Henke, and of a report of these memoirs, with original obser
vations on the same subject, by Meissner. As these new

observations refer principally to the ankle and elbow-joint,

I Iand as shall have afterwards to refer to them in detail,

shall at present only allude to such points as bear on the
subject of this communication.

      The important fact announced by these three observers is
the screw configuration of the articular surfaces of the elbow,
ankle, and calcaneo-astragaloid joints. The method of inves
tigation adopted was to trace lines on one of the articular sur
faces by means of a steel point passed a little beyond the
opposite surface previous to putting the joint through its
movements. These lines are termed " ganglinii" " go-lines,"
and in all the joints examined are arranged obliquely to their
 axes of rotation. Langer, acting on the happy idea of pro
 longing the screw, by uniting in one direction a number of
 plaster casts of the same articular surface, succeeded in form
 ing continued screws from the upper articular surface of the
 astragalus in the horse, panther, and human subject.

      Langer concludes that the " go-line" of the ankle-joint in
 all the Mammalia is a 'portion of a helix, and that therefore
 the astragaloid surface is a segment of a cylindrical or conical
 male screw, while the tibio-fibular surface is a segment of the
 corresponding female screw. The right ankle-joint is a left-
 handed screw combination ; the left ankle-joint a right-
 handed. When, therefore, the foot is conceived to be fixed,

238     MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.

the leg, in passing from a position of extension to flexion,

moves laterally outwards along the axis of rotation, to an extent

which is directly as the amount of rotation and the sine of
the angle of inclination of the thread -- that in proportion
        I
                                                       is,
to the extent of flexion and the rapidity of the screw.
     In attempting by Hanger's method to develope these arti

cular screw-models, found, that when two casts were united,

an apparently satisfactory helix was produced. But, in adding

to the series, the spire diminished, and the helix closed on

itself. It appeared that not only the angle of inclination of

the thread, but also the radius of rotation, diminished. The

surfaces of two casts of the same articular surface could not

be accurately adapted to one another, even by placing them

together in the mould in which they were both cast.         found
        a

                I
that when one or the other of the lateral ridges which repre

sent the thread of the screw was situated as guide in joining

the models, the helix closed in one or the other direction.I

In addition, found that the models only fitted their moulds
in one position --viz. that in which they were cast. This

follows from what already has been stated regarding the forms

of articular surfaces. The tibio-astragaloid articular surfaces

cannot therefore be segments of cylindrical series. It appears
        Ia
                                      a
                                                                 ;a
extremely probable that, abstracting the terminal facets, the

acting areas on each surface consist each of segment of

conical screw --the convex portions of these two screws being

on the astragaloid, the concave on the tibial articular surface

the one screw coming into action in flexion, the other in

extension.

    In following up the subject, was compelled to re-examine
the knee-joint from this new point of view. It now occurred

to me, that instead of attempting to procure co-ordinates by

direct admeasurement of the articular surfaces, data for an

approximate conception of the forms of these surfaces in any

joint might be reached by tracing the path or locus of any

MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.                              239

distant point in one of the bones when in motion, or of the
Ipoint of a rod prolonged from it.
                                    was enabled leisurely to

examine the path pursued by that point during flexion and

extension as projected on a plane parallel to the transverse

plane of the joint. The path described by the point of the

rod was found to be the same in both movements, but pre

sented a form which cannot be referred to the movements of

the joint as hitherto conceived. It was a continuous curve,

which crossed that perpendicular line in the field of view,

with which the point of the rod in the extended position was

coincident, before it again came to rest in it at the close of

flexion. Supposing the leg to be fixed perpendicularly, what

ever the nature of the profile curve described by the point of

the rod fixed in the axis of the thigh-bone during flexion and

extension --whether cycloidal, if the profile curve of the femoral
condyles be circular, or some form of equiangular spiral, if

the condyles possess that character, it appeared evident that

the line projected on a plane parallel to the transverse plane

of the joint must be a perpendicular line. It also appeared

evident that if Meyer's rotation really occurred, the line pro

jected on tins transverse plane would be curved above and
Ipass below into a straight line.
                                   found, however, on viewing

the point of the rod as projected in its course on this plane,

that the line was a continuous curve, concave throughout

towards the inner side in both the right and left lines.

    It was evident, therefore, in the first place, that the upper

part of the curve was due to Meyer's rotation, renewed in

consequence of the obliquity of the shaft of the thigh-bone ;

and in the second place that the external condyle, and the

two posterior thirds of the internal do not roll and glide in

parallel planes, but along curved paths. But as the inner
condyle is rolling while passing round Meyer's curve, it is

clear that from first to last, in flexion and extension, the

condyles of the femur roll and glide along curved paths.

240  MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.

     This curve, being more leisurely examined by means of a
plumb-line suspended between it and the eye, or through a
cross-threaded frame, or with a telescope with parallel wires in
the focus of its eye-piece, was found to be more rapid in its
curvature at the upper and lower end, while in the inter
mediate portion of its extent it lay more in the direction of

the plumb-line.

    It was now observed, on examining the joint itself, not

only that the condyles of the femur roll backwards and for

wards in curved paths --a fact which has hitherto escaped
notice --but that this curvature or rotation is as strongly

marked at the flexion as at the extension extremity of the

movement.

     By fixing the joint in the horizontal plane, and setting up
a series of rods from that plane to the point of the indicator

Ifixed in the femur, at equal intervals in its course, have pro

cured a system of co-ordinates which enable me by the eye to
trace more carefully the course of the curves on the three
planes on which it is projected. By this rough method,

altogether insufficient for precise results, the eye is nevertheless

enabled to detect-- 1. That the line is a helix, with variable

curvature, with a more rapid sweep at its upper and lower
portions than in the intermediate distance, the upper sweep
being the larger of the two ; 2. That there are two breaks in

its course, the first near its upper end at the commencement
of the great sweep, and most perceptible in the mesial plane ;
the second is situated about the junction of the lower and
middle third of the line, and consists of an angular bend, with
a more rapid curvature on each side, observable in the mesial

and transverse planes.
     These peculiarities in the curve induced me to re-examine

Ithe curvatures of the femoral condyles, and found that the upper

break corresponded to the grooves between the patellar and

condyloid surfaces, and also recognised what has also hitherto

MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.  241

escaped notice, that a little behind the middle of the profile
curvatures of the femoral condyles, and more particularly on
the outer condyle, there is an angular break, in front of and
behind which the curvature is more rapid. Tracing the posterior
curvature backwards from the break at the outer edge of the

external condyle, where its position is indicated by a tubercle
about the middle of the popliteal notch, it passes backwards

along the condyloid margin, and also obliquely backwards and
inwards into the hitherto unnoticed prolonged superior pos
terior internal angle of the condyle. The portion of the inner
edge of the outer condyle corresponding to the posterior part
of the curve now in question is concave inwards, and is the
margin of the space for the superior attachment of the
external crucial ligament, as the outer margin of Meyer's
curve limits the space for the attachment of the internal

crucial ligament. Within these limits the curve of the pos
terior area of the condyle diminishes backwards, so as to
give it the appearance of a conchoidal surface. The posterior
area of the inner condyle and its curves are equally appreciable,
but flatter and less distinctly marked.

     The anterior area with its curve is most fully developed
on the inner condyle. The outer part of this area is the facet
previously mentioned in my reference to Meyer's oblique axis.

It limits the attachment of the posterior crucial ligament, and

its curvature diminishes from before backwards. The anterior
area on the external condyle, like the posterior on the internal,

is flatter, shorter, and less fully developed.
     The helicoid character of the curve of movement appeared

to me to indicate a screwed structure in the joint. The cha
racters of the portions of the curve before and behind the
posterior break, and the corresponding and remarkable
peculiarity of the condyloid areas and their curves, taken along

Iwith what had already observed in the ankle, led me to

suspect that the movements of the knee-joint are combined

                                                          R

242  MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.

gliding and rolling movements of conical screwed surfaces
upon one another. To adapt this hypothesis to the structure
of the joint and the general character of the curves, it was
necessary to assume that the anterior areas of the comhined
femoral condyles are portions of a double-threaded conical
nut ; the anterior parts of the combined tibial condyles, and
the corresponding part of the intercondyloid spine, with other
structures to be afterwards mentioned, are portions of a cor

responding double-threaded conical tap. It was also necessary

to assume that the combined posterior areas of the femoral
condyles are portions of a second conical nut, and the com

bined posterior portions of the tibial condyles and spine --the

corresponding tap. The hypothesis, however, in addition re

quired that the anterior screw-combination should be opposed

to the posterior ; if the anterior is a right-handed, the pos

terior must be a left-handed screw.

     In the absence of numerical values for the co-ordinates of

I Ithe curves (which, however, do not despair of procuring),

cannot make a definite statement ; but the general character
of the curves observed, and the corresponding movements and
structure of the joint, leave little doubt in my mind that the

flexion and extension, combined gliding and rolling movements
of the knee are performed between two conical double-threaded

screw-combinations, an anterior and a posterior --the anterior

being a left-handed screw, and the posterior a right-handed
screw in the right knee-joint; the anterior a right-handed,
and the posterior a left-handed screw in the left knee-joint.

     The movements which take place round these two com
binations are alternate --those round the anterior completing

extension and commencing flexion ; those round the posterior,
completing flexion and commencing extension of the joint.

     The movements round the anterior combination are more

extensive and important than those round the posterior ; and
in the ordinary use of the joint are alone employed.

               MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.                       243

    The result of these two combinationsisthat in complete
                                            is,

                                                              is
extension the anterior combination        screwed home, while

the posterior  unscrewed. In complete flexion, again, the
               is
                           is
anterior combination           unscrewed and the posterior home.

For the purpose of understanding how the screw-movements

of the femur and tibia round two axes alternately, both of

which are only slightly, at all. inclined to the axis of the
           it
              is

                             if
limb, should result in the so-called flexion and extension at

the knee,      necessary to consider some of the properties of

conical screws, and of the peculiar modification of them whichis

  presented by the mechanism of the knee-joint. A conical

screwed nut and tap,  if       both constructed of comparatively

unyielding materials, do not coincide, and consequently do

not afford any serviceable result as screw-combination till
                                    a

                                                        ;
they have been screwed home. Conical screw-combinations

are consequently rarely employed in the arts and when they

are made use of, the male or female screw, more generally the

latter, consists of yielding, elastic, and tough material. The
               a
                  a
opposed threads of conical screw-combination constructed of

such materials are throughout congruent with one another          a;

and that amount of friction consequently procured, which

constitutes an element of the productive effect of cylindrical
                                                           a

screw-combination and the total absence of which renders
               ;

conical screw-combination of unyielding materials inefficient

till screwed home. In the knee-joint the concave screws on

the articular femoral surface are comparatively unyielding        ;

while the convex screws on the tibial surface are only par

tially cartilaginous, but mainly flexible, elastic, and tough.

Their movements, therefore, are precise, and when screwed

home the opposite elements of each combination become fixed.

In screwing and unscrewing conical combination of unyield
                                 a

ing materials up to the completion of the one process, and

from the commencement of the other, the concave and convex

screws are non-coincident. Both processes may be conceived

244  MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.

as being accomplished without any contact of the opposite
surfaces up to the completion of the one and from the com
mencement of the other ; and the contact takes place simul

taneously all over from base to vertex in the one case, and is
as simultaneously broken in the other. However irregular
the movements may be by which a conical screw-combination
may be screwed on or off, there is one general direction by
which the movements must be guided --namely, a rotation of
one or other, or of both screws in opposite directions, round
the common axis of the system. The amount of this rotation
will be directly as the rapidity of the thread in any given
combination ; but, however rapid the thread may be in any
such combination, there must always be a certain amount of
rotation to admit of complete separation of the two elements.

It is evident, therefore, that in the application of a conical

screw-combination in the construction of a joint required to

move in flexion and extension, the most advantageous direc
tion in which the axis of the combination could be placed

would be coincident with the axis of flexion and extension,

and the most disadvantageous that which most nearly opposes

the axis of the limb ; for if coincident with that axis, there

would be no apparent hinge-movement at all. We have
exemplifications of the permissible limits of such an arrange

ment in the elbow and knee joints. In the former the axis of

the screw is nearly at right angles to the axis of the limb ;
in the latter, nearly coincident with it.

     The arrangements by which the screw-combinations at the

knee-joint are adjusted for the general movements of flexion

and extension are as follows :--The diameters of the funda

mental cones considerably exceed their vertical height. They
are double-threaded, deep cut, with an obliquity of thread so
proportioned to the cone that they form little more than half-
spires. The upper portions of the taps of these screw-systems
consist of ligamentous texture (crucial ligaments), the basal
portions of bone and cartilage (tibial condyles and spine),

MECHANISM OF THE KNEE-JOINT.  245

the lateral parts of fibro-cartilage and ligamentous texture
(semilunar discs and lateral ligaments). The nuts consist of
corresponding portions of the femoral condyles. There is
actually retained, however, for the service of the joint, only so
much of each combination as is necessary for the required
movements. The base of the tap is connected to the vertex
of the nut by the crucial ligaments, which form the apex of

the former, and when the combination is screwed home these

ligamentous bundles are in a state of tension. In the process

of unscrewing, the ligamentous bundles of the tap become, on
account of their mode of attachment to the vertex of the nut,

successively relaxed from the point downwards ; while this
graduated relaxation of the ligaments provides for the tension
necessary for the continued gliding screw-movement. The
successive relaxations of those ligamentous bundles, which,
having served their purpose, are no longer required, permit a
movement to be superadded to this form of organic screw,
which the artificial screw does not admit of. The relaxation

of the vertex of the tap permits the two threads of the nut to
roll as well as glide along. The nut rolls as well as glides on
its convex condyloid surfaces. But as only a limited extent
of the cartilaginous surface of the tap is adapted to the carti
laginous surface of the nut, the latter would speedily roll and

glide off the former, if the latter were not prolonged in the

required direction. The rolling movement of the convex
margin of the nut is further provided for by the interposition
of the tough and elastic semilunar discs ; as, moreover, the
rolling motion increases from the axis to the periphery of the
combination, it takes place principally on these discs, while

the gliding or proper screwing motion, increasing proportion
ally towards the axis, takes place chiefly between the opposite
cartilaginous surfaces of the central part of the condyles of
the two bones, and to the greater extent between the central
margins of the femoral condyles and the surface of the spine

of the tibia.

246  CURVATURES AND MOVEMENTS OF THE

XI.-- ON THE CURVATURES AND MOVEMENTS OF
THE ACTING FACETS OF ARTICULAR SURFACES.*

1. The opposite gliding surfaces of joints employed by me
chanicians are surfaces of revolution ; and consequently all
sections of these surfaces, at right angles to their axes of

rotation, are circular arcs. In all uncompounded artificial

joints, therefore, except those with spherical surfaces, the
movements are limited to rotation in opposite directions round

a single axis.

     2. In organic joints, on the contrary, the opposite gliding

surfaces are not surfaces of revolution ; they are not cylindrical,
conical, or spherical, in the geometrical sense of the terms.

IIn no instance, as far as have observed, is a section at right

angles to the assumed or so-called axis of rotation, the arc of
a circle ; nor, as it appears to me, is it possible to associate
the characteristic curvature of the path described by a given
point in the bone or limb to which the joint appertains, with
articular surfaces of revolution.

     3. As stated in my former communication " On the Me
chanism of the Knee-Joint,"t the opposed surfaces of organic
joints are not continuous but faceted areas ; and of the
various kinds of facets indicated by me as existing on opposite
articular surfaces, those termed "acting facets" determine the
movements of the bones to which the joint appertains, and

     * This memoir had evidently been carefully prepared for publication, but

had not been sent to press. It is now published, therefore, for the first time. --

Eds.

   t Proc. Royal See. Edinburgh, Jan. 18, 1858 ; and No. X. of this volume.

        ACTING FACETS OF ARTICULAR SURFACES.  247

are consequently the fundamental facets of the articular

areas.

   IThe object of the present communication is to put on re

cord the general result of the observations have made on

the configuration and movements of central articular facets

since the date of the paper above referred to ; and to submit

a theory of their probable geometrical character.

    4 The central facet on one articular area of a joint is

adapted to a corresponding central facet on the corresponding
opposite articular area of that joint. The surface-curvatures
of the two facets are similar, so that the facets themselves may

be considered reciprocally as cast and mould of one another.

I shall have occasion hereafter to employ the term articular

couple to designate collectively two opposite corresponding
facets of any kind ; and the individual facets of such couples

I shall term twin-elements.

     5. The twin elements are not invariably developed to the
same extent, one of them being generally only a portion of the

entire facet, the deficient portion being supplied by yielding
and elastic structure, and which may be replaced in the exa
mination of certain joints by a cast in wax or plaster of the

corresponding portion of the opposite facet. This restriction
or curtailment of one of the twin elements is referable to that

principle of constructive economy which is evinced in the
arrangements of organic mechanism, in the midst of their
general complexity ; and it will. moreover, appear in another
section of this communication that the retention of the whole

of both the twin elements is not essential to their peculiar
Imode of action.
                  find it convenient to employ the terms

reserved and restricted to distinguish the articular elements in

these respective conditions.

   If6. the two elements of an articular couple be observed

during action, they will be seen to glide past one another in

two directions in such a manner that, assuming both of them

248 CURVATURES AND movements of the

to be complete -- Le. unrestricted -- and therefore congruent or

in contact throughout at the commencement of action, the

congruence becomes a minimum at the close of action ; and the

twin elements may even be completely separated from one

another in the subsequent movements of the joint. The two

movements are simultaneous, so that the actual movement is

their resultant.

7. The two movements determine the contours of the

facets. The most extended movement, which determines the

Ilength of the facets, shall term the primary movement, or

(for reasons to be afterwards stated) the movement along tlie

thread. The two extremities of the facets will be referred to

Ias proximal and distal. The other movement shall term

secondary, or the movement across the thread. This movement

determines the breadth of the facets and their two margins

respectively ; subject, however, like the lengths and extremities

of the facets, to the restrictive modification of the two margins

of each element respectively, the one has a higher teleological
Iimport than the other.
                         shall refer to the former as the

proximal, to the latter as the distal, margin.

     8. When, therefore, the elements of a couple are in their
fundamental positions -- i.e. when they are in contact through

out--their extremities and margins are also coincident respect

ively ; but in consequence of the frequent restriction of por
tions of one element, the corresponding portions of the other

are not in contact with correlative portions of surface, but with

synovia, synovial pads, or elastic menisci.

9. The lines of tlie thread, or of primary movement, which

extend from the proximal to the distal extremities of the

facets, are curves of double curvature of a helical form. The

curvature of these lines, while maintaining its general cha

racter throughout, diminishes in extent or sweep, appearing

more rapid as it approaches the proximal extremities of the

Ifacets ; and therefore distinguish the proximal extremity of

            ACTING ( FACETS OF ARTICULAR SURFACES.  249

a facet by the more limited sweep and apparently greater

rapidity of its longitudinal curvature.

    10. It is evident, therefore, that these helical lines of cur

vature cannot be conceived as developed on a cylindrical

surface ; they must lie in some surface of a conical form.

The lines may, however, be provisionally assumed as conical

helices of a given curvature.

11. The lines of movement across the thread are also curves

of double curvature. The curvature of these transverse lines,

like that of the longitudinal, while it maintains its character

throughout, is more limited in extent, with less sweep, and
therefore apparently more rapid as it approaches the proximal

margins of the elements. The transverse lines also have

their centres of curvature towards the proximal extremities

of the facets. The concave margin also is of less extent than

the convex, and the proximal extremity narrower than the

distal.

   - 12. It also follows that the margins of the twin-facets

must be concave towards the centres of longitudinal curva
ture -- i.e. the marginal outlines of the two facets respectively

must be, as they are in fact, concave on one side, convex on

the other.

13. As already stated, the actual movement of the twin-

elements of an articular couple is the resultant of their

primary and secondary movements. This resultant movement

may be effected by either of the two elements on the other, or

by both simultaneously. The resultant or actual movement

of an articular couple occurs alternately in opposite direc

tions along the same path ; when completed in one direction

the articular elements are in a maximum of contact ; and

when the movement is repeated in the opposite direction,
Ithey are in the position of minimum contact.
                                                    find it con

venient, in treating of the movements of joints, to employ the

terms positive and negative for the two opposite relative posi

250  CURVATURES AND MOVEMENTS OF THE

tions of maximum and minimum contact of their constituent

articular couples. In the positive position, an articular couple
is in a state of stable equilibrium. In the negative position it

is in the condition of unstable equilibrium.

    If14. the successive relative positions of the twin-ele

ments of a couple are examined in series from their positive
to their negative phase, it will be observed that as the
proximal extremity of the one element glides towards the
distal extremity of the opposite element, the corresponding

margins of the opposite elements glide past one another ; so
that when the negative phase is attained it will be found that
the proximal portion only of the distal extremity of the one
element remains in contact with the distal portion only of the
proximal extremity of the other element. During the return

movement from the negative to the positive phase, the series

of successive relative positions is reversed ; thus the opposite

extremities and margins glide towards one another, so that
at the close of the movement the proximal portion of the
distal extremity of the one element, which in the negative
phase is in. contact with the distal portion only of the
proximal extremity of the other element, now resumes its
original positive position, while the margins have also be

come coincident, and the twin-elements consequently con
gruent. The movement is thus of such a kind that in the

passage from the positive to the negative phase the cor
responding extremities and margins of the twin-elements
recede from one another, until at last the proximal part of the

distal -extremity, and the contiguous part of the proximal
margin of the one element, coincide with the distal part of
the proximal extremity and the contiguous part of the distal
margin of the opposite element.

     15. As already stated (13), when the couple is in the
positive phase its elements are in stable equilibrium ; so it
may now be observed that the only mode in which they can

ACTING FACETS OF ARTICULAR SURFACES.  251

pass from the positive to the negative phase without losing
entirely their stability is by a combination of the primary and
secondary movements -- for any attempt to glide the one
element over the other, except by the double movement, im

mediately destroys the congruence of the couple. It will also

be observed that the twin-elements, when in their positive
position, are fixed or adjusted in their proper localities ; and
that the successive extents of congruence during the action of the
couple are directly as the approximation to the positive, and

inversely as the approximation to the negative phase.
     16. The successive extents of congruence appear to be

determined by the successive adaptation of corresponding por
tions of curvature on the opposite elements, as these elements

pass through their opposite movements ; for it appears as if

the gliding of the twin-elements across the thread not only
successively accommodates their transverse, but also their
longitudinal lines of curvature as they respectively meet one

another.

     17. During the gliding in the lines of the transverse cur
vatures in passing from the positive to the negative phase,
the two bones on which respectively the twin-elements are
situated gradually incline on one another towards that side of
the articular couple on which the proximal margins of the
elements are situated. As it will appear in the sequel that in
some couples the proximal margins are on the concave, but
in others on the convex sides of the couple, the inclination of
the two bones will be to the concave side in the former, to

the convex side in the latter.

      18. During the gliding in the lines of longitudinal cur
vature in passing from the positive to the negative phase, the
two bones incline towards the distal extremity of the couple

if that couple has a concave proximal side, and towards the
proximal extremity of the couple if that couple has a convex

proximal side.

252  CURVATURES AND MOVEMENTS OF THE

      19. From what has now been stated, it is evident that the

two bones return to their original positions as the couple
resumes its positive phase. We may, therefore, assume a
straight line passing through the surfaces of the couple, or a
parallel to such a line, as representing the two bones in their
relative positions to one another in the positive phase of the

couple. At the commencement of the passage to the negative

phase, the line separates into two portions at the point where
it passes through the twin-surfaces ; and these two portions
thenceforward to their negative position assume a series of

relative positions determined by the resultant movements
of the twin-elements. These series of relative positions must
be similar, but necessarily in inverse order, during the return
to the positive phase.

     20. As already stated, the longitudinal and transverse
lines of curvature of the twin-elements are curves of double

curvature ; and as the resultant movements of the ele
ments themselves must be helical, it follows that the two
halves of the line representing the two bones must pass
through a series of positions of such a kind that, during
action, any given and corresponding point in each of these
lines will describe a helical path of similar but opposite cur

vature.

     21. The geometrical character of the generative curves of
an articular couple can only be finally determined by means
of numerical data. As, however, the forms and movements

presented by the twin-surfaces exhibit throughout these
strongly marked already described distinctive characters, it
becomes a matter of importance to inquire whether the
conditions of these characters are fulfilled or supplied by any
one geometrical curve.

     22. With this object in view, it is to be observed that
during the double gliding of the elements upon one another
in their alternate passages from their positive to their nega

ACTING FACETS OF ARTICULAR SURFACES.  253

tive, and from their negative to their positive positions, a

progressively diminishing or increasing extent of congruence

appears to be provided for by the successive gliding into apposi

tion, and therefore into congruence, of geometrically-similar, as
well as linearly-equal portions of curvature not previously

coincident.

     23. In other words, the geometrical arrangement of the
surfaces of the opposite elements appears to be such as will
provide, not only for their perfect congruence wlien in their

positions, by means of geometrically -similar and linearly-equal

longitudinal and transverse lines of curvature fitted into one
another in the opposite elements, but also for an alternating

series of progressively diminishing and increasing extents of
congruence, by means of corresponding series of geometrically-
similar and linearly-equal portions of longitudinal and trans

verse curvatures on the opposite elements, and inereasing or

diminishing in accordance with the positive or negative direction

of the movements. These successive coincidences of these
similar and equal portions of longitudinal and transverse

curvature being brought about by corresponding gliding move
ments in the negative and positive directions.

      24. The equiangular spiral, in its more general form as a

curve of double curvature, is the only geometrical curve which

fulfils the conditions of the successive movements and adap

tations of articular curvatures now under consideration. A

characteristic property of this spiral, and one which peculiarly
adapts it for generating the curvature of the surfaces of organic

joints, is the geometrical similarity of all portions of any given

example of curve which subtends the same polar angle, how

ever different their linear dimensions may be ; so that, if the

spiral be conceived as revolving round its pole, in the plane
of two lines diverging from the pole, the lines will inter
cept an infinite number of geometrically-similar portions of
the curve, but which become infinitely smaller or greater as

254  CURVATURES AND MOVEMENTS OF THE

the curve advances in the direction of its pole or away

from it.

   25. Now we may conceive the opposite, similar, and equal
curved surfaces of an articular couple to be generated simul
taneously by a given equiangular spiral. This spiral, in
successive stages of development, represents corresponding
successive transverse lines of curvature of the twin-elements ;

its primitive extent or dimension being assumed as equal to
that of the first opposite transverse lines at the proximal
extremities of the elements. The proximal extremities of the
transverse lines of curvature, which collectively constitute the
proximal margins of the elements, are assumed as representing
the polar portion of the generating curve; while the distal
extremities of the transverse lines of curvature, which collec
tively constitute the distal margins of the elements, are as
sumed as representing the anti-polar portion of the generating
curve. The primitive dimension of the given curve having
been assumed equal to the first proximal transverse curvature

on each element, the successive greater transverse curvatures

are geometrically conceivable as being produced by successive
rotations of the generating curve round its pole and in the
direction of the pole, so that successive additions are made
to its anti-polar extremity, and consequently to the distal
extremities, of the transverse lines of curvature of the

anti-polar elements.
     But it is evident, on inspection of the articular surface of

an acting couple, that the transverse lines of curvature are
arranged in series along the lines of longitudinal curvature,
and that the series therefore sweeps in a helical or screwed
direction round a central axis of the entire combination. We
must assume, therefore, in addition, that the generating spiral,
while increasing its dimensions by revolving round its pole
in the direction of that pole, also revolves tangentially round
a fixed axis, while it glides along that axis in the direction of

          ACTING FACETS OF ARTICULAR SURFACES.         255

its length. If, now, the generating spiral increases its dimen

sions, so that each linear increment corresponding to a given

angular increment shall vary as the existing dimensions of

the spiral itself, then the longitudinal curvatures of the sur
faces developed --that the lines of curvature resulting from
                             is,
the revolution of the continually-increasing generating spiral
                               a it
        round, and the gliding of along, the fixed axis, must also be

equiangular spirals, with constant ratio determined by that

of the generating spiral.

        26. The opposite surfaces, thus simultaneously generated,

        would evidently be congruent screwed surfaces, representing

respectively the concave and convex elements of conical
                                           a
        screw-combination. The curvature in the direction of thea

        thread of such screw-combination would possess the cha
          is
        racter of the equiangular spiral while the curvature acrossa
                                        ;

        the thread would possess corresponding characters.

            27. It evident that the concave and convex elements of

        screw combination of this kind would be fully congruent
a
    a iswhen in apposition, and that their axes would be coincident.

        It also clear that any attempt to unscrew combination

        of this kind, while the axes of its two elements are retained

        in right line, would at once render its entire opposite sur

        faces incongruent, in fact separate them from one another.

        If, on the other hand, were possible to diverge the axes of
                             it

        the two elements from one another at the same time that the

        elements are unscrewed, then there would result from these

        combined movements gliding of the opposite surfaces upon
                             a
        one another over        asuccession of extents, which would

        diminish in area in terms of the constant ratio of the generat

        ing spiral, until finally minimum of contact of congruence
                             is,
        would obtain --that      a to use the terms already employed,

        the screw-combination would be in its negative phase, and its

        elements in their negative positions. On reversing the com
        bined movements --that
                                   is,  on screwing the combination into

256  CURVATURES AND MOVEMENTS OF THE

its stable or positive phase --the two elements would glide on

one another over successive extents of congruence or contact,

which would increase in dimensions in terms of the constant

ratio of the generative spiral, until both surfaces become con

gruent throughout --i.e., until the elements are again in their

positive positions.

     28. The combined movements -- i.e., the movements along
the thread, and the inclination and consequent divergence of
the axis of the elements, or, what is equivalent, the move
ment across the thread -- are only possible under the condition
that the structure of the combination shall consist of rigid
materials, along a limited extent only of a single spire or
whorl, so that the movements on that side of the whorl shall

not be counteracted by those on the opposite side. It is this

condition of applicability which determines the comparatively
small extent of whorl in the greater number of articular
couples, and more especially in their restricted elements.

      29. The combined movements being thus provided for,

the successive longitudinal and transverse adaptations must

occur in the following order :--The elements being in their
positive phase, it is evident that during the passage to the

negative phase successive transverse curvatures in the one
element must pass off and become unscrewed at the proximal
extremity of the couple ; while at the same time successive
transverse curvatures of the opposite element must be left
uncovered at the distal extremity of the couple. With
regard to the mode of adaptation of those successive portions
of the elements still in contact or covered by one another, it
is to be borne in mind that the successive transverse curva

tures are successive developments of a given extent of a given

equiangular spiral ; they are all, therefore, geometrically dis
similar, as well as linearly unequal ; but from the law of the
equiangular spiral, every greater development of a given
extent of curve contains a portion geometrically similar and

ACTING FACETS OF ARTICULAR SURFACES.                               257

linearly equal to every lesser development of it. And as allit,
these geometrically-similar and linearly-equal portions ofof
                                                           of
curvature are, from the assumed relations of the generating
spiral, necessarily collocated in a regular series along theis     ;
                 is
two elements of the couple, it follows that in the passage from         a
is is                                                                                a
the positive to the negative phase, each greater transverse curvaa
ture, wlien it advances on the next opposite lesser curvature,

cannot coincide with it as a whole, hut by the transverse gliding,
as much of its polar extremity as is geometrically similar and
linearly equal to that next opposite lesser curvature will coincide

with while the remaining portion its antipolar extremity pro
jects uncovered beyond the antipolar extremity the lesser. The
same relations subsisting between all the other greater trans

verse curvatures of the one element, and those next lesser

transverse curvatures on the opposite element, all the remain
ing transverse portions of linear coincidences go on dimi
nishing, in terms of the common ratio of the generating curve,
until the negative phase reached, or loss of contact occurs.

On reversing the combined movements during the passage,

from the negative to the positive phase, portions geometrically

similar, and linearly equal transverse curvatures, increasing
in terms of the common ratio, successively coincide while the
proximal and distal extremities of the twin-elements respec
tively approach one another, and their distal margins approxi
mate till complete congruence again attained.

    30. It evident that the principle, which provides for

succession of progressively diminishing, or increasing, portions
of similar and equal transverse curvature, involves corre
sponding series of progressively diminishing or increasing
similar and equal portions of longitudinal curvature, and
consequently resultant series of progressively diminishing,
or increasing, similar and equal areas of curved surface for

contact on the opposite elements of the articular couple.

    31. It also evident that we may assume the generating

        s

258  CURVATURES AND MOVEMENTS OF THE

spiral, as it simultaneously glides along and revolves around
the axial line, to do so with its polar extremity directed either

towards or away from that axis. In the former case, the
proximal or polar margins of the resulting elements will
constitute the concave side of the couple, which will be con
sequently directed towards the axis. In the latter case, the
polar or proximal margins of the resulting elements will
constitute the convex side of the couple, and will therefore be

turned away from the axis. These two forms of articular

couples are therefore also respectively distinguished by the
direction of their secondary or transverse gliding ; when the

polar side of the couple is concave, or towards the axis, the
transverse gliding of the elements, during their passage from

the positive to the negative phase, is such as that the inclina
tions of the two portions of a right line passing perpendicularly
through the couple will be towards the axis, and away from
it on the return from the negative to the positive. When, on
the other hand, the polar margins of the elements are on the
convex side of the couple, the elements glide in such a
manner that the two halves of the perpendicular line incline
away from the axis, and towards it on the return to the posi
tive phase. As the collocation of these two forms of articular

couples constitutes an important feature in the construction

of certain joints, and as they demand therefore distinct

Idesignations, shall employ the term axial to indicate a

couple the proximal side of which is towards the axis, and
the term antaxial to indicate a couple the proximal side of

which is convex.

     32. In certain joints, each articular couple acts in concert

Iwith a second articular couple, which is developed around the

same axis, but on the opposite side. For this arrangement
shall employ, as in my former communication on the knee-

joint, the term articular combination. If we assume, as I

have done throughout the present communication, that the

ACTING FACETS OF ARTICULAR SURFACES.                                                259

generating curve of articular couples is in each instance a

special equiangular spiral, we may conceive the two constitu

ent couples of an articular combination to be simultaneously

generated by two similar and equal equiangular spirals placed

tangentially on opposite sides of a common axis, but with the

polar extremity of the one, and the antipolar extremity of

the other, in contact with  so that all tangentially-corre-
                          it
                               it,

                                                                 a
                                                                                 a
sponding parts in the generative curves of the two couples

shall be parallel, while they at the same time glide along the

axis and revolve around in the same direction, increasing

their dimensions by successive increments in given ratio at

their antipolar extremities, by revolving round their poles in

the direction of these poles. The two couples thus generated

would be respectively axial and antaxial, the former having

the pole of its generative spiral towards, the latter turned

away from, the common axis. During the passage of com

bination of this kind from its positive to its negative phase,

the opposite elements of both of its couples would respectively

glide in the same direction along their threads, because

the proximal and distal -- i.e., the polar and antipolar--ex

tremities of the couples are symmetrical. But as by construc

tion the one couple  is  axial, and the other antaxial, their

margins are not symmetrical, for the polar margins of the

axial couple are on the concave, those of the antaxial on its

convex side. But this asymmetrical arrangement of the

margins of the two couples of the. combination necessarily

co-ordinates their gliding across their threads. Their com

bined movements across their threads and their inclination in

relation to the axis being simultaneous, and all their geo

metrical relations being similar and equal -- e.g., all tangents

of corresponding points in their curvatures being parallel,

as the same relations obtain during the passage of the com

bination from its negative to its positive phase-- follows that
a

                                                                 it
combination of this kind could be screwed and unscrewed

260           CURVATURES AND MOVEMENTS OF THE

with increasing and diminishing series of contacts, and in the

same manner as a single couple ; but with this advantage, that

while the single couple, in its negative phase and in its minor

degrees of contact, is supported on one side only of the axis,

an articular combination is supported by two equal contacts

on opposite sides of the axis. An articular combination is in

fact equivalent to a double-threaded screw, as a single articular

couple may be conceived as a single-threaded screw.

     33. The theory of the geometrical development of articular

Isurfaces, which have endeavoured to express in this com

munication, necessarily involves the possibility of deodotrope
and scmotrope --i.e., right and left-handed articular couples and

combinations. The two forms depend upon the direction in

which the generative curve revolves around the axis, moving

with the hands of a watch to the right in a dexiotrope,

against the hands of a watch in a scaeotrope couple or combi

nation. We find accordingly that the corresponding articular

couples and combinations on opposite sides of the body are

opposed to one another in the direction of their winding.

Thus, for example, it was pointed out in my former communi

cation  (p.   242) that the anterior articular combination in the
            is
knee-joint left-handed in the right knee and right-handed

in the left, and that the same relations obtain in the posterior

articular combinations of opposite knee-joints. In succeeding

communications  I  will point out that articular combinations

with opposite windings, on opposite sides of the body, similar

to those in the knee-joint, exist in the ankle and tarsal, and

in the elbow and carpal joints and that the hip and shoulder
                       ;

joints consist of single-threaded couples, but also with opposite

windings on opposite sides of the body.

     34. The nature of that more or less marked restriction or

curtailment of one or both elements of couple, already
                                         a

adverted to in paragraph may now be more fully examined.5,

This restriction or curtailment consists essentially in the

ACTING FACETS OF ARTICULAR SURFACES.                               261

elimination or removal of such portions of one or both of the

elements in their typical form (that in the forms which
they would possess in virtue of their completed geometrical
                         is
                                      is,

                                                           a
construction), as are not absolutely essential to their efficient

action. Thus, for example, as one essential condition of

efficiency of an articular couple the provision of sufficient

extent of perfect contact in the negative phase, an articular

couple would act efficiently, although the whole of the proxi

mal margin of one of the elements were removed, along with

as much of the remaining portion of that element as would

retain in reserve enough of the proximal extremity of its dis

tal or antipolar margin for contact, during the negative phase,

with the distal or antipolar portion of the polar margin of the

opposite element or, expressing the matter in less precise but
5,
more direct terms, the couple would act efficiently as regards
       I
                   is a
                                         ;
                       I is
                                                             a if
its passage to its negative phase, although only the polar or

proximal extremity of one of its elements were reserved, and

the place of its removed portion supplied by soft, yielding,

or elastic textures. It  obvious, however, that                    only the

polar portion of one of the elements be retained, certain ex
tent of the opposite element may be dispensed with --namely

the distal and antipolar portion of its distal margin. Both

elements of couple may, therefore, be more or less restricted;

but as, however much the polar margin of the one element

may be curtailed, the corresponding margin of the opposite

element must be reserved, employ, as stated in paragraph

the term restricted to designate the element with the cur

tailed, and the term reserved to designate the element with the

retained, polar margin. As the object of the present com

munication to record the general principles involved in the

inquiry, reserve for succeeding communications on special

points all details relating to articular elements, couples, and

combinations, as well as their relative adjustments by means

of ligaments, fibro-cartilaginous menisci, and synovial pads.

262  CUBVATUKES AND MOVEMENTS OF THE

    35. It appears necessary, however, at this point to anticipate

so far by recording a few observations on the teleological re
lations or final purposes of these peculiar principles of con
struction which characterise organic joints.

     From the peculiar character of the curvature which obtains
in organic joints, all points of their opposite surfaces come
successively into and then break contact, so that these joints
perform a maximum of work with a minimum of surface-
contact ; while, at the same time, that weakness which is en
tailed by diminution of surface-contact on the organic as well
as on artificial joints, is compensated for by muscular action
in the former during its movements to and from its negative
position, whereas the latter must in all its positions support
itself. Both the organic and the artificial joints derive ad
vantage from diminished surface-contact, for their deterioration
is lessened by the diminished amount of pressure and friction.
But the deterioration of the materials and structure of an

organic joint during action may be assumed as proportionally
greater than that of an artificial joint, for in addition to the

actual injury to structure sustained, there during action,
suspension more or less complete of those nutritive processes
on which the ulterior integrity of the organic joint surface
depends. The artificial joint surfaces consist of materials
which may be assumed as not subject to deterioration of their
molecular constitution, but only in their configuration during
action from pressure and attrition. This deterioration cannot
be remedied by the economy of the joint, but accumulates
with duration of action, and ultimately demands the interfer
ence of the mechanician. The organic joint surfaces again
not only suffer from pressure and attrition, but in their

molecular constitution as well, and as this molecular deterio
ration diminishes the efficiency of their ulterior action, the

organic joint subjected to more speedy injury in the per
formance of its function than the artificial.
     is
                                                     is,
                                                                                           a

ACTING FACETS OF ABTICULAR SURFACES.  263

       But this liability of the acting surfaces of an organic joint
 to molecular deterioration during action, while it would sub
 ject the joint to greater injury from a given amount of work
 than an artificial joint, is compensated for by the curvature of
 its articular surfaces, which provides for that amount of time
 necessary for successive restorations in the intervals of suc

 cessive contacts. For to whatever extent the opposite surfaces
 of an artificial joint may be diminished, there must always

 remain a certain extent of its opposite surfaces in contact ; and
 from the circular form of the transverse section, the successive

 amounts of contact, corresponding to a series of equal changes
 in angular position during rotation, must be in arithmetical
progression. But in the organic joint the successive amounts
of contact, corresponding to successive equal increments of
angular position, will be in geometrical progression, during
which the work done will be inversely as the intervals of
time in which each portion of it is performed.

    If we assume, therefore, that the deteriorating effects of

friction are diminished in both forms of joints by an increase
of the rapidity of movement during a given amount of work,
the advantage which is gained by the organic joint in time
saved is greater than that gained by the artificial joint. For
time is an essential condition in the restoration of organised
matter, deteriorated by functional action. This condition of
time determines that alternation or rhythm which characterises
all the phenomena of organised bodies. The alternate inter
vals of action and inaction, of fatigue and repose, of deteriora
tion and renovation, of waking and sleep, of life and death,

are not solely due to the recurrent cosmical conditions under
which organisation subsists, but essentially depend on the
organic character of organised matter itself. Every portion
of organised mechanism is constructed on principles which

co-ordinate it with the peculiar molecular constitution of

organised matter. It therefore appeared to be essential, that

264    CURVATURES AND MOVEMENTS, ETC.

not only the structures and phenomena recorded in this com

munication should be recognised as in accordance with the

principles of organisation, but also that the generalisation of

these structures and phenomena, as apparently determined

by the law of the equiangular spiral, should be found to

supply the requirements of these principles.

     36. The principle involved in the gain of time provided

for repose after functional activity in organic structure is still

further illustrated by an arrangement in organic joints, first

indicated in my former communication on this subject. All

organic joints consist of at least two articular couples, or of

two articular combinations. The two couples or two com

binations are so arranged that during the full action of the

joints --i.c, during the performance of its two opposite move
ments --the one couple or combination performs the work

during the first half of the first movement and the last half

of the second movement, while the other couple or combina

tion performs the work during the last half of the first move

ment and the first half of the second movement. The effect of

this arrangement  that each of the two couples or combina
       is
                             is,

                                          is
tions  alternately in action and out of action. While the

one couple or combination                     doing work and undergoing de

terioration, the other couple or combination  is  relieved from

functional activity, and engaged in its own necessaiy reparais,
tion --that in its own nutritive actions.

THE RETINA.  265

                   XII.--ON THE RETINA.

The anatomical elements of the retina are most satisfactorily
examined in microscopic sections made at right angles to
the surface of the membrane, after maceration in dilute solu
tion of chromic acid. Viewed in this manner, the retina
exhibits, from the peripheral to the central margin of a suc
cessful section, a series of strata, which may be distinguished
as the bacillary, white cellular, grey cellular, filamentary, and
limitary layers.

     The bacillary layer consists of two kinds of bodies --the
rods and cones. The rods are cylindrical or prismatic, with ex

tremities transversely truncated, transparent, and of extremely
debcate texture. The cones only differ from the rods in
having their inner third, or two-thirds, pyriform. These are
arranged close together at right angles to the outer surface of
the retina, with their external extremities applied against the
inner surface of the choroid. Throughout the greater part of
the retina the rods predominate, the cones being uniformly

interspersed. In the neighbourhood of the yellow spot, the

cones become more frequent; and in the spot itself, they
alone constitute the bacillary layer.

      The transversely truncated inner extremity of each of the
rods is connected with the deeper structures of the retina,
either by a conical appendage, which tapers inwards in the
form of a filament, or by an ovoidal appendage, which also
transmits a filament inwards. The inner extremity of each
of the cones is terminated by a pear-shaped appendage,

 266 THE EETINA.

containing a nucleus, and having its stalk prolonged inwards,
like the filaments of the rods.

     The white cellular layer is composed of three strata --an

outer, an intermediate, and an inner. The outer consists of
the ovoidal nucleated appendages of the cones ; of the ovoidal
appendages of the rods which have such bodies attached ; and
of similar bodies in which the conical appendages of the
other rods terminate. The intermediate presents a semifluid
granular basis, through which numerous filaments pass from
the outer into the inner stratum, in a direction perpendicular
to the surfaces of the retina. These filaments, which issue
from the outer stratum, are, firstly, the prolongations of the
filaments which proceed from the nucleated appendages of
the cones ; secondly, the prolongations of the filaments which
proceed from the ovoidal appendages of the rods possessing
such ; and, thirdly, filaments proceeding from the inner extre
mities of the ovoidal bodies, which are connected with the
filamentary terminations of the conical appendages of the
other rods. The inner stratum also consists of two sets of
ovoidal bodies, each of the first connected with some one of
the prolongations of the filaments of the cones, and giving off,
at its opposite end, a similar filament; while those of the
second set, similarly formed and provided, are connected with
the prolongations of the filaments of the rods.

     Towards the circumference of the retina, many rods may be
found, connected by the filaments proceeding from their ovoidal
bodies with a single filament passing into the inner stratum.
This connection never occurs between the filaments of the
cones, which are thus invariably independent of one another.

     There may generally be found a branch passing obliquely
inwards from some part of the filament of the cone and rod,
in its passage through the intermediate stratum, or from the
ovoidal bodies of the inner stratum

     The grey cellular layer consists of a fine granular basis,

THE RETINA.  267

such as may be seen in many parts of the brain ; of numerous
cellules, with distinct nuclei, nucleoli, and two, three, or four
radiating and branching prolongations, as in the cerebrospinal
axis ; of numerous blood-vessels ; and of prolongations of the
filaments of the rods and cones, passing inwards to the inner

surface of the retina. It is extremely probable that the

nucleated cellules of this layer are connected by certain of
their prolongations to the filaments of the rods and cones ; the
prolongations of the former being continuous with the branches

of the latter in the white cellular layer. It may also be con

fidently stated that, by means of others of their prolongations,
the nucleated cellules of this layer are connected with the
ultimate filaments of the optic nerve, which form the next
layer of the retina.

     The filamentary layer is composed essentially of the
ultimate filaments of the optic nerve. These filaments, as
soon as they pass off from the spot, enter the retina, lose their
medullary sheath and dark margins, and assume a delicately

transparent grey tint, and somewhat varicose form. They
radiate in gradually diminishing anastomosing bundles all
round ; but, on the outer side of the optic nerve, they sweep
in curves from above, and from below to a line which passes
from the centre of the nerve outwards through the yellow
spot, converging at the same time somewhat towards that
spot. The terminations of the constituent filaments of this
layer are probably all continuous with certain of the radiations
of the nucleated cellules of the grey cellular layer. The
meshes formed by the bundles of this layer afford passage
inwards to the continued prolongations of the filaments of the

rods and cones.

      The limitary layer completes the retina on the inner side.

It is an extremely thin, perfectly transparent membrane,

which, although continuous throughout, can only be detached
in minute portions, in connection with the terminal attach

268  THE RETINA.

ments of the filaments of the rods and cones, which terminate
on its outer surface by expanding into conical brushes, or still
more minute threads, which would almost appear to constitute

the membrane itself.

    At the entrance of the optic nerve, the bacillary, white

cellular, and grey cellular layers, are necessarily absent ; the
limitary membrane alone covering the inner surface of the
mass of nervous filaments, which, with the arteries, spreads out
on all sides.

     Over the macula lutea the bacillary layer consists of cones
alone, the filaments of which do not reach the limitary layer,
at least at the fovea centralis, but terminate in the white cell

ular layer. The latter exists, except at the fovea. The grey
cellular layer is distinct throughout ; but towards the centre,
and at the fovea, its granular stratum is deficient, the nu
cleated cellules being crowded together under the limitary
layer. The filamentary layer is deficient as a lamina, over
the entire macula lutea ; but its constituent filaments may be
detected in the midst of the nucleated cellules of the spot.
The peculiar yellow pigment is diffused through all the
textures, with the exception of the bacillary layer.

     The structure of the retina is so delicate, and its investiga
tion so difficult, that much remains still to be determined

regarding the precise connection of its different elements.
The structure of the bacillary layer having been more parti

cularly examined by Gottsche and Hannover, and the white
cellular layer by Bowman, Pacini traced the filaments inwards
from the rods and cones into the white cellular layer. The

discovery of the filaments themselves, and their passage
inwards to the limitary layer, is due to Heinrich Midler, by
whom, along with Kolliker, the general anatomical connec
tions of the microscopic elements of the retina have been

more particularly traced. According to H. Miiller and
Kolliker, the rods and cones are connected by what may now

THE RETINA.  269

be denominated the Mullerian filaments to the limitary
membrane ; the various bodies which constitute the white
cellular layer being connected with these filaments in the
manner already described. The branch which proceeds from
each of the Mullerian filaments in its course through the
inner stratum of the white cellular layer becomes continuous
with one of the radiations of one of the nucleated cells of the
grey cellular layer ; all the cells of this layer therefore being
connected with all the rods and cones of the retina. The
remaining radiations of the cellules of the grey layer, passing
inwards, form the commencements of the ultimate filaments
of the optic nerve in the filamentary layer of the retina.

     In reference to those parts in the structure of the retina

upon which that impression is made, which, when conveyed
to the sensorium, terminates in the perception of light, it may
be stated, that the non-sensibiMty of the retina at the entrance
of the optic nerve, and its perfect sensibility at the macula
lutea, as well as other considerations, prove that this function
is not performed by the filaments of the nerve.

     Kolliker concludes, by exclusion of the other elements,
that the rods and cones, with the Mullerian filaments, are the

structures on which objective light first impresses itself He
believes the seat of this impression to be in the rods and cones,
and also probably in the inner ends of the Mullerian filaments.
He has examined with great care the chemical and structural
characters of these bodies, and has satisfied himself that they

are nervous structures.
      Briicke and Hannover conceive the rods and cones of the

 bacillary layer to be structures which reflect the light back
 again from the outer surface of the retina against the filament
ary layer, on which it is thus impressed. Helmholtz, again,
 who does not admit the sensibility to light of this layer,
 believes the reflected light to act upon the grey cellular

 layer.

270                  THE RETINA.

     Having carefully examined the retina since these obser

Ivations and views have been published, have succeeded in

verifying the majority of the structures and relations described
by Miiller and Kolliker ; but cannot coincide with the latter
in opinion that the rods, cones, and Miillerian filaments are

nervous structures. They have neither the general aspect
nor the anatomical relations of mere nervous textures. Each

rod or cone, with its Miillerian filament extending inwards toit,
the limitary membrane, with the ovoidal bodies developed on

    would appear referable rather to the class of structures to
which the touch-corpuscles and Pacinian bodies belong.
They are structures developed around the extremities of the
ultimate filaments of the optic nerve, for the purpose of
placing those extremities in the necessary position and cir

cumstances for being impressed by the rays of light. The
ultimate nerve-filament enters the Miillerian stem of the rod

or cone as passes through the white cellular layer. This
        is

          it
filament probably, as has been stated, radiation from one
                                       is,
of the grey cells, which they be collectively connected toifaa
all the rods and cones, as well as to the filaments of the optic
nerve, may safely be considered, as Kolliker has pointed out,itit

to be retinal ganglion, intermediate between the sentient
     a

points of the retina and the sensorium, as well as between the

corresponding points of its own and of the opposite eye. The

ultimate nerve-filament, as       enters the Miillerian stem

obliquely outwards, probably terminates towards or at the
extremity of the rod or cone, so as to have its transverse

section directed outwards at right angles to the axis of the
rod or cone. Let now be assumed that ray of light cannot
              ; it
impress an ultimate optic filament, except            impinge upon

the free extremity in the axis --that  at right angles to the

transverse section and let also be admitted, with Briicke
                     is it
and Helmholtz, that      isby light reflected from the bottom
                              it
of the eye that vision affected, then the theory of the retina

THE RETINA.  271

in primary vision becomes more consistent. The divergent
pencil of light which proceeds from any visible point to the

eye, becoming convergent after having entered the refractive
media, passing through the perfectly transparent retina, is
probably brought to a point at the surface of the choroid or
outer part of the bacillary layer of the retina, and is not
entirely absorbed there, but is reflected as a divergent pencil.

In passing towards the point of reflection, the rays of the

pencil cannot impress any part of the retina, because they
cannot impinge on any of its nervous elements in the only

manner in which these can be affected--viz., against their free

extremities at a right angle. Certain of the rays, however,

of the reflected pencil--viz. those which pass along the axis
of a rod or cone in the bacillary layer--will impinge in the

proper direction on the contained nerve, and produce the
luminiferous impression. No confusion, therefore, can result
from the multitude of convergent and divergent rays which
is passing through the chamber of the eye, and through the
retina, for those only are capable of impressing which are
reflected along the axes of the cones and rods. The human
sensorium receives from the retina the impression of a picture,
which is not continuous, but made up of detached points ; as
in the vision of the insect, which only sees an object by as
many points as can transmit rays along the axes of its eye-

tubules.

     The bacillary layer of the retina belongs morphologically
to the transparent humours of the eye. The original bulb of
the eye, whether it be a mere process of the brain, or partly a
pulp developed on the tegumentary membrane, forms over its
entire free surface transparent (cuticular) structures. That
portion of the free surface of the pulp which is directed
towards the orifice of the eye-follicle, developes the lens, the
cornea, and the vitreous humour. That portion again, in
contact with the inner surface of the follicle, and which

272  THE RETINA.

becomes choroid, developes the bacillary layer with its rods
and cones. As the lens and vitreous humour increase in size,

the pulp or retina becomes cup-shaped, and intermediate
between the two portions of the transparent structure de
veloped from its original spheroidal surface.

MODE IN WHICH LIGHT ACTS ON THE RETINA.                         273

XIIL-- ON THE MODE IN WHICH LIGHT ACTS ON
    THE ULTIMATE NERVOUS STRUCTURES OF
    THE EYE, AND ON THE RELATIONS BETWEEN
    SIMPLE AND COMPOUND EYES.*

Since the publication, in 1826, of Joh. Mutter's Vcrgleichende

Physiologie des GesicMssinnes, physiologists have admitted three

fundamental forms of the organ of vision. 1st, The eye-spot,

organised for the mere perception of light ; 2d, The compound

eye, in which the picture on the nervous surface is a mosaic ;

3d, The simple eye, in which the retinal picture is continu

ous. The difference between the simple and compound eye,
as explained by Muller, and since generally admitted, consists

in this, that the formation of the picture in the simple eye is
the result of the convergence of all the pencils diverging from

the visible points of the object on corresponding points of the

retina, by means of the lenticular structures of the organ ;

while, in the compound eye, the picture is formed by the

stopping off, by means of the constituent crystalline columns

of the eye of all rays except those which pass in or near the

axes of the columns. The extent of surface of any object, and

the number of separate parts of such surface, represented on
the nervous structure of a compound eye, will vary, therefore,

in terms of the distance of the object, the curvature of the

superficial ocular surface, the corresponding inclination of the

crystalline columns to one another, the size of their individual

* Read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh,   April 6, 1857.
                                             T

274     MODE IN WHICH LIGHT ACTS ON THE RETINA.

transverse sections, and their lengths. The continuous retinal

picture in the simple eye is psychically interpreted as a con
tinuous image. If, therefore, the possessor of a compound eye
perceives a continuous image of an object, it niust be the

result of a more complex psychical operation, in virtue of

which the separate portions of the ocular mosaic picture

are psychically combined, and interpreted as a continuous

whole.

     The successive researches of Treviranus, Gottsche, Han

nover, Pacini, H. Miiller, and Kolliker, have determined the

existence and general structure of close-set rods or columns,

which extend between the inner and outer surfaces of the

retina, in the midst of the nervous and vascular textures of

that membrane. The outer extremities of these rods present

a crystalline columnar aspect, and constitute, collectively, the

external layer of the retina, usually termed Jacob's membrane.

The ultimate filaments of the optic nerve, after being connected

in a plexiform arrangement in the ganglionic layer of the

retina, terminate each independently in the more perfect portion

of the retinal field, by passing into, or becoming continuous

with, the inner end or side of a rod. Kolliker considers these
rods as nervous structures --that as terminal portions of the
                       ;

                                   is,
nerve-filaments themselves and holds that they constitute the

parts of the nervous structure of the eye on which objective

light primarily acts.

     Having myself carefully examined the structure to which

have now alluded, have been able to verify the more im
I

              I

                  II
portant anatomical details, as described by their discoverers,
and agree with Kolliker in considering the rods as the primary

optic apparatus.       cannot, however, coincide with this dis

tinguished observer in holding these rods as modified nerve-

filaments.  hold them to be special structures appended to

the extremities of the ultimate nerve-filaments, and referable

to the same category as the Pacinian bodies, touch-corpuscles,

MODE IN WHICH LIGHT ACTS ON THE RETINA.                             275

it,Irods of Corti, etc. ; and, moreover, so far am from coinciding

        awith Kolliker in his speculations as to the part of the rod on

         aIIwhich the objective light acts, that have found myself com

                          itpelled, not only from the consideration of the structures them
selves, but also from the development of the eye itself, and
the arrangements of the compound eye, to conceive the raysa
of light as acting upon the retina, not as they impinge upon     ;
                                                             it,
    or pass through from before, but as they pass backward
again out of the eye after reflection from the choroid.

     The general aspect of the rods, and more especially of
those portions termed Miillerian filaments, where they col
lectively amalgamate in the limitary membrane of the retina,
indicate, as believe will be generally admitted, that they
consist of modification of connective tissue, enveloping and
supporting the extremities of the ultimate nerve-filaments in
such manner as to form special structures, which, from their

functions, may be termed pholcesthctic bodies.
     That special structures are required for the initiation of

action in the filaments of the optic nerve by objective light,
appears to be established by the facts, that the nervous fila
ments of the retina, and the cut extremities of these filaments

on the stump of the optic nerve, are not affected by although
irritation of the same filaments by electrical or other means
produces subjective luminous phenomena. Subjective sounds
may be produced by various modes of irritation but actual
sonant vibrations can only excite the acoustic filaments through
the medium of the rods of Corti, or the corresponding terminal
structures in the vestibule. Corresponding terminal structures
are in like manner appended to the tactile, olfactory, and
gustatory nerves, apparently for similar purpose, to provide
the necessary conditions of the initial excitement of the nervous
current by those secondary properties of external bodies to
which the organs of touch, taste, and smell, are related.

     When the attention of anatomists was directed, a few years

276  MODE IN WHICH LIGHT ACTS ON THE RETINA.

ago, to the structure and physiological signification of the

columns of the retina, by the observations of H. Miiller and

IKolliker, became satisfied that those structures are not, as the

latter asserted, nervous structures, properly so called, but

special structures, of the same nature as the Pacinian bodies
Iand the tactile corpuscles.
                              stated and explained my opinion

of the nature of these bodies in a lecture on the retina delivered

Iand reported in 1854* But had generalised these relations

of nervous filaments to special terminal exciting structures,

Istill further, in the zoological lectures which delivered in

1853, for my late distinguished colleague and preceptor, Pro
Ifessor Jameson.
                  also expounded it at considerable length
Iin my course of lectures last winter (1855-6).
                                                 shall now

state the doctrine in general terms, not only because it is

necessary for the elucidation of the distinctive characters of

Ithe simple and compound forms of eye ; but also because

am anxious to put on record, by submitting it to this Society,

a generalisation which appears to me of primary importance
Iin the general physiology of the nervous system.
                                                   assume,

as established the doctrine of Du Bois Eeymond, that a nerve-

filament is capable of propagating the nervous current equally

well in both directions ; and that the physical and physiolo

gical characters of this current differ in no respect, are in fact

identical in the so-called motor and in the so-called sensory
Ifilaments, whether special or common.
                                        also assume as

established that the specific manner in which a centripetal

nerve-current is converted at the central extremity of the fila
ment --that is to say, is physiologically reflected into the motor

filaments, or psychically interpreted as sensation -- depends

upon the physiological or psychical endowments of the differ

ent portions of the nervous centre with which the filaments

Iare connected. These two positions being assumed, then,

hold that, although the ultimate nervous filament may have

* Edinburgh Medical Journal, p. 377, 1855 ; and No. XII. in this volume.

MODE IN WHICH LIGHT ACTS ON THE RETINA.                                        277

;its functional current (that                  the common nervous current)

   isexcited or initiated by electrical or other physical or chemical
                                       is
agencies, yet this current can only be initiated or excited, for
                                          is,the special functional purposes for which each nervous fila

ment provided in the economy, by the structure or tissue
                                             Ifconnected peripherally.
with which such filament                                                       so,

then not only are the individual filaments of the nerves of

special sense provided with current-exciting structures at

their peripheral extremities, by means of which alone the

objects to which they are related can initiate the nerve-cur

rent but also centripetal nerve-filaments of whatever kind

are provided, in their connection with the textures from which

they proceed, with arrangements by means of which alone

their functional currents can be initiated.

From this point of view every particular structure in the

organism from which nervous filaments proceed to the nervous

centre may be considered, with                 reference to the nervous

                                               organ --that
is
         a
                                                                       is,
system, as  peripheral nervous                                                 an organ

capable of exciting or initiating              centripetal nerve-current;

which physiologically converted, or psychically interpreted,

at the corresponding central organ, according to the special

endowments of that central organ.              am in                           position from
     After this preliminary statement,
I
                              I

                                I
                                                                            a
which can explain the mode in which understand the
structure and actions of the rods of the retina in the simple,

and the columns in the compound eye.

       In the Simple Eye. --A ray of light can only impress an
1.
                            a

                                  it

                                                     I
ultimate retinal nervous filament under certain conditions.

These conditions are, that should impinge upon the distal

extremity of the filament in, or parallel to, the axis of that

filament, or within certain angle to that axis.

    All rays impinging on the distal extremity of an ultimate

retinal nervous filament under the conditions stated term

photogenic rays. Rays impinging upon, or passing through,

278  MODE IN WHICH LIGHT ACTS ON THE RETINA.

the filament in any other direction, may be termed aphotogmic.

IThe distal portion of the ultimate retinal nervous filament

distinguish as the photcesthetic surface.

    In order that the ultimate retinal nervous filament may

be subjected to the rays of light under the required conditions
of vision, its distal extremity or photaesthetic surface is inclosed
in a peculiar structure, consisting of a so-called rod or coue

I(which distinguish as the crystalline column), and its ap

pended Mullerian filament, with its nuclear enlargements.
This structure constitutes a specific kind of peripheral nervous

Iorgan, which, from its function, term a photcestlwtic body.

    A photaesthetic body consists of a distal segment, or

dioptric portion, elongated, cylindrical, or club-shaped, homo

geneous, transparent, and highly refractive, usually termed
the rod or cone ; and a proximal segment or peduncle, with
its nuclear enlargements, into which the ultimate nervous
filament passes, and within which it apparently terminates,

probably at its outer end.
     The entire aspect and arrangement of these photaesthetic

bodies, their predominance over the other parts of the retina
at the axial spot of the eye, and the direct continuity of their
stems with the nerve-filaments at that spot, appear to me to
indicate not only the nature of their functions, but also the

general features of the mode in which it is effected. It

appears to me that the rays which act upon the nervous

filaments must be such rays as the arrangement permits to
pass from behind forwards in the axes of the photaesthetic

bodies. It has now been ascertained, that the quantity of

light reflected, and consequently irregularly dispersed within

the eyeball from the choroid and bacillary layer, etc., is very
considerable ; and it consequently becomes a very important
question, to determine in what manner this reflected and

irregularly-dispersed light is prevented from affecting the

Iretina. The view which have already given of the structure

MODE IN WHICH LIGHT ACTS ON THE RETINA.           279

and probable mode of action of the photaesthetic bodies affords

the basis of a hypothesis -which meets all the conditions of

the question, and is in full accordance with the comparative
Ianatomy and development of the organ of vision.
                                                  cannot

interpret the functions of the structure of the retina as now

determined, except by assuming that the photaesthetic columns

are impressed not by the light as it enters the eye, or as it is

more or less irregularly reflected and dispersed in its interior,
but only by those rays which, in their passage backwards to

the pupil, pass along, or nearly in, the axes of the crystalline

rods or columns of the photaesthetic bodies, so as to reach the

photaesthetic spots under the required conditions. No con

fusion, therefore, can result from the multitude of convergent

and divergent rays which pass through the chamber of the

eye, and through the retina. By this means, the numerous
rays not necessary for vision, are as it were eliminated from

the operation, the eye being blind to them, and affected only

by such as are reflected backwards to the pupil along the axes

of the crystalline columns.
     2. The Crystalline Columns of the Compound Eye. --Aa

Istated in my lecture on the retina, formerly alluded to,

conceive the crystalline columns in the eye of the insect or

crab to act in the same manner as the retinal rods in the

spheroidal or simple eye. That they do so may be held as

established by the researches of J. Miiller on the laws of

vision in the compound eye. Miiller even refers to the

columnar structure of the retina, as presenting a certain

similarity to the structure or arrangement of the compound

eye. F. Leydig, in an elaborate memoir published in Miiller's

Archiv. in 1855, on the structure generally of the Arthropoda,

examines minutely the structure of the simple and compound

eyes, and arrives at the conclusion that the crystalline columns

of their compound eyes, as well as the corresponding structures

in their so-called simple eyes or ocelli, are of the same nature

280  MODE IN WHICH LIGHT ACTS ON THE RETINA.

as the so-called rods and cones--that the photaesthetic bodies
     I
                                                           is,
                                                                          a

                                                                     if
which have already described in the retina of the vertebrate

eya But Leydig entirely loses sight of fact, which, un

explained, vitiates his conclusion as to the physiological

identity of the bodies in question. In the annulose or
molluscous eye, whether in its so-called simple or compound

form, the crystalline columns are directed, like the tubes of

so many telescopes, towards the object, the corresponding

nervous filaments passing to them from behind whereas the
                is is,

                       iIf

                                        is is,

                                 I
                                                                                    ;

                                                       I
crystalline rods of the vertebrate retina are directed away from

the object --that towards the back of the eye -- are in contact,

in fact, with the choroid, while their nervous filaments are con

nected to them in front--that between them and the object.

     On the other hand,    am correct in holding that the

vertebrate eye     acted upon by those rays only which are

reflected from its choroidal surface, have not only explained

physiologically why its retinal columns are reversed, but am

legitimately entitled, as Leydig not, to consider them as the

homologues of the crystalline columns of the annulose and

molluscous eye.
     But the teleological explanation of the opposite arrange

ment of the corresponding structures in the vertebrate and

invertebrate eye,  is is,  in the present phase of the science, in

sufficient. The difference must be explained morphologically.

This explanation afforded by the different modes in which
the vertebrate and invertebrate --that
                                        is,  the simple and

compound --eyes are developed.

     In the compound eye the primordial ocular papilla or

convexity, which   is      only slightly protuberant, has its

cutaneous or superficial surface immediately converted into

the crystalline columnar structure, the individual columns of

which are connected with the filaments of the subjacent optic

nerve. The columns are all therefore directed to the object.

     The primordial cerebro-cutaneous spheroidal protuberance

       MODE IN WHICH LIGHT ACTS ON THE RETINA.              281

or papilla of the simple refracting or vertebrate eye, is speedily

hollowed out in front by the development in or upon it of the

lens and vitreous humour, so that from a spheroidal convex

surface, the primordial protuberance assumes the form of a

cup, with its mouth directed forwards, and its cavity occupied

by the refracting media of the organ. This cup-shaped mass

is the retina ; the crystalline rods are not developed on its

concave surface, but on its outer or convex surface, as they

exist on the convexity of the compound eye --that  a is,in the

direction of the radii of the sphere, but directed backwards,

on account of the nearly spheroidal surface.

In conclusion,  may state what appears to be the
it

                 is I
                                           is
physiological superiority of the simple over the compound

eye. As the simple eye acted on by reflected light only,

   cannot be disturbed by rays not required for the definition

of the image. It also arranged so as to admit of much

more delicate or minute mosaic representation of the object,

from its microscopic and reversed photaesthetic bodies being

in contact with the reflecting choroidal surface on which that

image  is  formed. It moreover combines the advantages of

the contiguous image, formed by the lenticular structures, and

the mosaic image, which results from its crystalline rods.

282 LAMINA SPIRALIS OF THE COCHLEA.

     XIV.-- ON THE LAMINA SPIRALIS OF THE
                               COCHLEA

The lamina spiralis of the cochlea, instead of being, as hitherto
supposed, a single layer, osseous in the inner, and membran
ous in the outer portion of its extent, is a double structure,
with numerous complex arrangements in its interior.

     The osseous and membranous portions of the lamina
spiralis, as hitherto understood, may be considered as the
basis of the entire complex structure as it is now ascertained.

     The osseous portion of the lamina contains the cochlear
nerves in closely-arranged canals, which, at its outer margin,
coalesce in a chink or fissure, which contains the ganglion
recently discovered by Corti, and affords exit to the nervous
filaments.

     The membranous portion of the lamina consists, as
discovered by Todd and Bowman, of a membrane which,
except at its outer and inner margins, is closely streaked in
the direction of the radius of the cochlea, and hence denomi
nated zona pectinata. The outer margin of the membrane is
attached by means of a fibro-nucleated texture to the accessory
spiral lamina of Huschke, and to the neighbouring groove.
This fibro-nucleated structure is the cochlear muscle of Todd
and Bowman --the spiral cochlear ligament of Kolliker. The
inner margin of the membrane is attached to that lip of the
fissure of the osseous lamina which is next the apex of the
cochlea, but so as to leave numerous orifices or more or less
oblique canals, through which, as Kolliker has ascertained,

LAMINA SPIRALIS OF THE COCHLEA.  283

the extremities of the cochlear nerve-filaments pass to the
vestibular surface of the membrane. The cochlear nerves,

therefore, instead of being distributed, as has hitherto been

supposed, on the tympanic aspect of the lamina spiralis, pass
through it to its vestibular aspect ; its entire tympanic sur
face, and the nerves in their transit across that surface, from
the fissure in the osseous to the orifices in the membranous

portion, being covered by the fibro-serous lining membrane of

the osseous labyrinth. It thus appears that all the complex

structures in connection with the lamina spiralis, usually so
called, of the cochlea, are situated on its vestibular aspect.

    These structures are --1. The habenula sulcata, situated

chiefly on the osseous lamina, and discovered by Todd and
Bowman ; 2. The habenula denticulata, situated on the mem

branous lamina, discovered by Corti, and latterly ascertained
by Kolliker to be connected with the cochlear nerves ; 3.
The membrane of Corti, covered on its vestibular surface by
the serous lining membrane of the osseous labyrinth, first
partially recognised by Corti, but latterly more fully described

by Claudius ; 4 Large vesicular cells which occupy the

space between the membrane of Corti and the lamina spiralis,
usually so called, first recognised by Corti, but more precisely

determined by Claudius.

     The habenula sulcata is a structure of cartilaginous aspect,
which, rapidly increasing in thickness as it advances to the
outer margin of the osseous lamina, inclines over and beyond

that margin so as to form the sulcus spiralis of Huschke. It

consists of columns, which at its thin inner edge are set per
pendicular to the surface of the subjacent bones, and therefore
expose their free extremities on its vestibular aspect. To
wards its thick or outer edge the columns become more and

more inclined, so as to expose more and more of their sides,
and at the edge itself they form a series of elongated, slightly

clavate and flattened, clear glistening teeth, which project

284  LAMINA SPIRALIS OF THE COCHLEA.

over the groove of Huschke. Some of the columns divide,
others unite together, as they pass outwards to form these

teeth ; which are termed " teeth of the first series." In the

grooves between the columns are numerous nuclei, which
resist acetic acid, while the former swell up, and become
somewhat striated under its action.

     The habenula denticulata consists of a series of apparently-
jointed rods, laid on the surface of the membranous portion
of the so-called lamina spiralis ; each rod in the series lying
in the direction of the radius of the cochlea. The first or
inner segments of these rods form a series of compressed
laminae, attached across the bottom of Huschke's spiral
groove, with narrow chinks between them, which are, in fact,

the orifices through which the cochlear nerve-filaments pass,
as already stated. These central segments are the "dents
apparents " of Corti. The second segment, or portion of each
rod, is also compressed, and lies flat on the membranous
spiral lamina, and is loose and movable, except at its inner

end, where it presents an enlargement like a nucleus, which
was supposed by Corti to be the joint by means of which the
rod is attached to and moves on the membrane ; but which
Kolliker has discovered to be the point at which one or more
of the ultimate filaments of the cochlear nerves become
connected with the rod, after they have passed through the
orifices already mentioned. The series formed by these
second segments of the rods are the so-called " teeth of the
second order." The terminal segment is connected with the
second by means of two short quadrilateral segments, the
" coins articulaires " of Corti. The terminal segment is elon
gated and compressed. To its upper surface three pyriform
bodies, each of which contains a nucleus, are attached by
short peduncles, so as to be laid over one another, from
within outwards. Corti and Kolliker describe the outer
extremity of this segment as somewhat expanded and forked,

LAMINA SPIRALIS OF THE COCHLEA.  285

and also as free or loose. But Claudius has ascertained that
the expanded extremity is attached to the lamina pectinata,

so that the rod cannot move to and from the membrane, as

Corti has supposed.

    It must here be observed, that the first or inner segments

of the rods, the " dents apparents " are attached throughout,
and from their position and relations belong rather to the
structure of the habenula sulcata, than to that of the habenula
denticulata. The latter consists, then, essentially of the
second and terminal segment described above, connected
together by the short " articular " portions. The cochlear rod,
properly so-called, consists therefore of two principal segments,
the inner segment being connected with one or more ultimate
nerve-filaments, and the outer fastened at its external end to
the membrane on which it lies.

      Corti has described a thin membrane covered by the
epithelium of the labyrinth, and extending from the pro
minent surface of the habenula sulcata somewhat beyond the
habenula denticulata. The space between this membrane
and the "dents apparents," and also the spiral groove of
Huschke, are occupied, according to him, by large transparent
nucleated vesicles. Similar vesicles, conceived to be epithelial
by their discoverer, occupy the space between the mem
branous lamina spiralis and that portion of Corti's membrane
which extends beyond the habenula denticulata. The rods of
the cochlea, therefore, according to Corti, move like a series
of hammer or pianoforte keys, in a space included between
the membrane discovered by him, and the lamina spiralis,
usually so-called. Claudius, however, has shown that Corti's
membrane extends out to the external wall of the cochlea ;
and that the entire space between it and the lamina spiralis,
usually so-called, is occupied by vesicular structure.

      The following are the results of observations made for
the purpose of verifying the descriptions of Corti, Kolliker,

286  LAMINA SPIRALIS OF THE COCHLEA.

and Claudius. The membrane of Corti extends, as Claudius

has stated, to the outer wall of the cochlea, and the large

cells between it and the lamina spiralis have extremely

thin walls, and transparent contents, so that they resemble,

when pressed together, an areolar network. Portions of

the rods were also occasionally seen curled up, and as ob

served by Claudius, attached by their expanded extremi

ties, in series, to the membrane on which they lie. The
detection by Kolliker of the connection of the nerve-fila

ments with the rods  after the discoveries of Corti, the
     a
most important recent addition to our knowledge of the
structure of the cochlea. Even in the ordinary view of theit a

structure from the vestibular aspect, the nerve-filaments may,is,
without much difficulty, be observed to disappear at or in the             a
central extremities of the rods. Their inner extremities do not
                                                                                                                             ;
correspond, as Kolliker has correctly observed, to the outer
ends of the " dents apparents," but to the intervals between

the latter. Kolliker holds, on chemical as well as anatomical

grounds, that the rods of Corti are true terminations of the

cochlear nerves--peculiar forms of the ultimate nerve-fibre.

He believes Corti's opinion to be erroneous, that they are

developments from the membrane on which they lie, and that
they constitute physical apparatus. Notwithstanding Kol-

liker*s opinion, may be safely asserted that the rods of Corti

present configuration and aspect which distinguish them in
the most marked manner from any form of the nerve-filament.

The peculiar flattened articulated form, the variable breadth,

and, as pointed out by Claudius, the alternate arrangement of
the proximal and distal segments of neighbouring rods and,

lastly, the elasticity, slight, though marked, which they possess,

indicate that they are not true nerve-structures. Without

stating the nature of the function he supposes them to per

form, Corti believes that the rods move like series of ham

mers. Harless conceives that they act as dampers by pressing

     LAMINA SPIRALIS OF THE COCHLEA.  28V

on the membrane during vibration. Kolliker, again, believes

that from the almost mathematical regularity with which they

are arranged along the vestibular surface of the lamina spiralis,

these peculiar terminations of the cochlear nerves are the

structures which distinguish the pitch, timbre, and strength

of sounds, through the medium of the water of the labyrinth

and the fenestra ovalis.

From comparative anatomy it would appear that the

vestibule is that part of the organ by means of which any

sound, or series or combination of sounds, is heard merely as

noise. The simplest form of ear, which consists of a vesti

bule only, probably enables the sensorium merely to become
cognisant of sound, irrespective of the pitch or harmony of its

constituent tones.

    In regard to the semi-circular canals, it appears probable

from their intimate connection with the vestibule, that they,

like have to do with sound merely as noise, and that theirit,
function, therefore, of secondary importance in the higher
     a
forms of the organ.
            is

                          a
     Dr. Thomas Young, with his usual sagacity, considered
the cochlea as " micrometer of sound." Kolliker, as already

stated, has put forward           similar idea, based on his know

ledge of the structures just described. His conception, how

ever, appears to be so far unsatisfactory, inasmuch as he

considers the rods of Corti to be merely the extremities of the

cochlear nerves and wants that completeness which       a it
                   ;

                              it

would have, had he been able to admit those rods to be

series of acoustic arrangements, as they are believed to be by

their discoverer.

The hypothesis presents more satisfactory form we
                                  a   if

assume that each of the rods of Corti, or that groups of these

rods are so organised and arranged as to act or vibrate as

acoustic apparatuses appended to the extremities of the coch

lear nerves. Each rod, or group of rods, may be so constituted

288 LAMINA SPIRALIS OF THE COCHLEA.

as alone, among all the others, to act or vibrate, when the

note or harmonic chord, for which that single rod, or that

group of rods, had been provided, passes through the cochlea

in the form of sonant vibrations of a correspondent physical
Ifvalue.
          this be the case, we can understand how, by the

instrumentality of a cochlea, the physical value of each tone,

or harmonic combination of tones, may be detected by the ear,

and impressions of correspondent value transmitted along the

nerve-filaments to the seat of sonant sensation in the brain.

It must be borne in mind, however, that the aesthetic percep

tion of the sensations produced by the instrumentality of the

cochlea, its nerves, and the sentient centre, is a psychical

function, and a result of the pre-established harmony between

the mental and corporeal elements of the animal constitution

on the one hand, and external nature on the other.

ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.  289

XV.-- ON THE ELECTEICAL APPARATUS IN TOR

 PEDO, GYMNOTUS, MALAPTERURUS, AND RATA

The electrical apparatus in fish consists of three parts --the

battery, the nervous centre, and the internuncial cord.
     The following would appear to be the general expression

for the structure of the battery -- a very large number of

laminae, consisting of vascular nucleated texture, largely sup
plied with centrifugal nerve-fibres, distributed on one of their
surfaces only ; so arranged in reference to one another, and to
thin intervening layers of fluid, as to constitute a uniform

series, in the order : nerve-surface -- cellule-vascular surface
--fluid, nerve-surface -- cellule-vascular surface--fluid, etc. etc.

     The nervous centre consists of a portion of the cerebro
spinal axis developed in relation to the large nerves distributed
to the battery ; and so organised, as to be capable, not only
of excito-motory action, but also of being subjected to the
influence of the will.

      The internuncial cord is a centrifugal nerve, connected at
one extremity to the nervous centre of the apparatus, and at
the other distributed on the nervous surfaces of the laminee

of the battery.

     In Torpedo there are two batteries which occupy the two

spaces between the pectoral fins, the head, and gills. Each
battery consists of a number of hexagonal, pentagonal, or
tetragonal prisms, which vary in number from 400 to up
 wards of 1000, according to the age of the animal. The prisms
 extend perpendicularly between the dorsal and abdominal in
tegument ; and are separated from and connected to it by a

290  ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.

thin but dense aponeurosis, which at the same time separates
them all from, and connects them to one another, by passing

inwards in single layers, so as to form a continuous series of
prismatic aponeurotic compartments, in the interior of which
the prisms are situated. Each prism consists of delicate,

horizontal, superimposed laminae, separated from one another
by thin layers of fluid, so that the arrangement bears a general

resemblance to a galvanic pile. It has hitherto been supposed

that the laminae are connected by their margins to the
aponeurotic wall which surrounds the prism ; but Pacini
(Sulla struttura intima dell organo elettrico del Gimnoto, e di
altri pesci elettrici, 1852) has lately shown that the laminae
are attached by their angles only to the corners of their apo

neurotic sheaths ; and that an entire pile may be removed from
its containing cavity, by cutting the four, five, or six series of

attachments by which it is fixed. It is extremely important

that the structure of the laminae should be determined.

Valentin (" Electricitat der Thiere," in "W&gae^aHandui6rterbuch
der Physiologie) states, that each lamina consists of a thin
prolongation of the aponeurotic wall of the pile, covered above

and below by an epithelial layer, and affording a matrix for
the ultimate divisions of the vessels and nerves, which, he is

inclined to believe, are so arranged, that the terminal nervous

plexuses are placed towards the upper, the capillaries towards

the lower surface. Savi (Matteucci and Savi, Traits des

Phenomenes Electro-Physiologiques, 1844) describes the ele
mentary filaments of the nerves as forming a network by
anastomosis in the lamina ; but Eudolph Wagner (Annales
des Sciences Naturelles, 1847) has shown that each elementary
filament, enveloped in a very thick sheath, divides at once
into twelve to twenty-five secondary filaments, which, passing
towards the laminae, splitting into two or three ternary fila
ments and losing their envelopes and dark contours, disappear
in the soft, dotted, nucleated substance of the laminae, without

ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.  291

forming meshes. Pacini (loc. cit.) has lately made a most
important addition to Wagner's description of the laminae.
The laminae, or electrical diaphragms, as Pacini terms them,
are attached, as has been. already stated, by their angles only.
The vessels and nerves enter at these points, but so as to be
at first placed on the under surface of the diaphragm, and there
fore in the fluid interposed between that surface and the upper
surface of the diaphragm below. Passing inwards and ramify
ing in this fluid, they ultimately pass up to the under surface,
and the nerves are distributed on that surface only of the dia
phragm to which they belong. Now, as the dorsal surface in
Torpedo is positive and the abdominal surface negative, it
follows, as Pacini has indicated that the upper surface of each
electrical diaphragm, consisting only of soft, dotted, nucleated
vascular texture, is positive, while the under surface, on which

the nerves only ramify, is negative.
     Pacini was led to the observation of the position of the

nerves in the electrical diaphragms of Torpedo, by the more
complex structure which he had previously discovered in the
corresponding parts of Gymnotus.

     Gymnotus possesses four batteries, which extend nearly
the whole length of its eel-like body, from behind the pectoral
fins to the extremity of the tail ; forcing the lateral muscles

towards the dorsal, and the comparatively small abdominal
viscera, with the anus, towards the cephalic region. The great

or dorsal batteries are separated from one another above by

the vertebral column, the great vessels, the displaced lateral

muscles, and the air-bladder ; below by a mesial aponeurotic
septum, along which the nerves pass to the batteries and
ventral fin. Laterally these dorsal batteries are intimately
connected to the skin ; and inferiorly are separated from the
ventral, or small batteries, by a thin layer of muscle. The
small batteries are, moreover, separated from the skin by the
laterally-displaced muscles of the ventral fin ; but are inti

292      ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.

mately connected to one another by a thin aponeurosis only.

These small batteries are, therefore, peculiar, not only in their

close approximation, but also in being enveloped in mus

cular substance.

     The batteries in Gymnotus consist of a number of piles

placed horizontally in a direction from head to tail. From

this circumstance, as well as from their peculiar structure, they

are aptly compared by Eudolphi to galvanic troughs. These

troughs are in the form of flattened masses, separated from,

but connected to one another by aponeurotic septa, which,

diverging, extend outwards from the inner to the outer aspect

of each battery. It is not easy to determine the exact number

of the piles or troughs in a battery, as they vary in number

in different parts of and are lost as they pass backwards
         of
                            it,

                                                   ;
and downwards. From the statements of Mr. Hunter (An

Account  the Gymnotus Eleclricus                                     Phil. Trans. 1775),

and Valentin (Joe. cit), and my own observations, the number         ;
of troughs in the great battery ranges from thirty to sixty
in the lesser from eight to fourteen. Hunter (he. cit.), Eu

dolphi (ilber die Electrischen Fischc in Alhand. der Akad.       of
zu Berlin, 1822), Knox (Edin. Jour. Science, 1824), Valentin
(loc. cit), and all observers previous to Pacini, state what may

be easily verified, that the troughs in Gymnotus consist of

numerous perpendicular laminae, which extend transversely

between the aponeurotic septa, with fluid interposed, as in the

piles of Torpedo. Pacini's account (loc. cit.) of the structure
and relations of the electrical laminae or diaphragms of

Gymnotus much more precise and elucidates in remark
         is                                                          a
              a                                                                      a

                                                              ;
able manner structure hitherto sufficiently obscure. The

more important features of Pacini's account, as verified by

myself, may be thus described. Each of the electric dia

phragms in Gymnotus, instead of being as in Torpedo,

single lamina with the nerves distributed on one of its surfaces,

consists of two laminae, with thin layer of fluid interposed.
                  a

ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.  293

The posterior of these is a delicate, wide-meshed, fibrous layer,
in which alone the nerves ramify ; the anterior consists of
a thicker layer of the peculiar vascular, dotted, nucleated
texture which forms the laminae in Torpedo. Both surfaces
of the vasculo-cellular layer present an arrangement of pro
minent, close-set, undulating ridges, with thick, rounded,
nucleated margins. The ridges are more fully developed on
the anterior than on the posterior surface of the layer, and
from the ridges of the latter a number of thread-like pro
longations pass backwards through the interposed fluid to the

fibro-nervous layer, so as to connect the two layers as one
compound lamina. From the measurements and calculations
of Pacini, the superficial extent of the anterior surface of the
vasculo-nucleated layer is increased by this rigid structure
from five to six times, the posterior about twice.

     The electro-motor series, therefore, in Gymnotus, instead
of simple laminae, as in Torpedo, consist of compound laminae
separated by layers of fluid. There are thus two kinds of
fluid in the electro-motor series of Gymnotus --firstly, that

between the vasculo-cellular layers and the fibro-nervous,
and which must be considered as an element of each com

pound electric diaphragm ; and, secondly, that between any
two electric diaphragms, which is the homologue of the fluid
layer in Torpedo.

    As the current in Gymnotus passes from before backwards,
Pacini denominates the vasculo-cellular layer the positive, and
the fibro-nervous layer the negative element, of the electro

motor series.

     The batteries in Malapterurus are two in number, sepa
rated, but at the same time intimately connected to one another
in the mesial plane, along the dorsal and ventral margins of

the body, so as to form a continuous layer of a gelatinous
consistence, closely adherent to the skin, and enclosing as in a

sac the entire animal, except the head and fins. In the

294     ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.

Malapterurus of the Nile, of which species only dissections

have hitherto been published (St. Hilaire, Annates de Museum,
tom. i. ; Kudolphi, Abhand. Berl. Akad. 1824 ; Valenciennes,
An. des Set. Nat. tom. xvi.), a subjacent areolar, laminated,

fatty layer, has been described as a second and deeper electrical

apparatus ; and in the Malapterurus of Western Africa, with

Ithe examination of which am at present engaged, this

deeper layer exists in the form of longitudinal streaks of

fat between the muscles and gelatinous layer. Pacini, how

ever (" Sopra l'organo elettrico del siluro elettrico del Nilo,
etc.," negli Annali delle Sci. Nat. di Bologna, 1846), has shown

that this presumed deep electrical structure consists princi
pally of fat (as it assuredly does in the species from Western
Africa), and probably acts as an insulator to protect the fish

from its own shocks ; the electrical currents being presumed

to pass from within outwards -- thatis       through any point on
                                        is,
the surface of the body.

     The determination of the intimate structure of the battery

of Malapterurus  extremely difficult. Before Pacini, no
                 is
                      it
precise description of had been attempted. He represents

the structure as consisting of octahedral cellules or alveoli,                 a

form which in some measure explains the variable direction

of the currents through the electro-motor mass. Professor

Ecker, in communication contained in Siebold and Kolliker's
     a

Zeitschrift fur Wissensch. Zoologic, July 1854, states that

Dr. Bilharz,* at present in Egypt, engaged in the anatomy

of the Nilotic species, and that he conceives he has determined

the alveoli of the electro-motor layer to be lenticular in form,

with their surfaces directed forwards and backwards. He

would appear to have observed that they are arranged not

in antero-posterior series, but alternately so as to constitute
     ;

                                                    a
                                                                            ;
     * The observations of Dr. Bilharz, the Professor of Anatomy in Cairo, have

since been published in extenso, in volume entitled, Das Electrische organ des
Zitterwehes Leipzig, 1857. -- Eds.

ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.  295

 decussating series, and to afford in certain sections the
 octahedral form attributed to them by Pacini. He also states
 that these lenticular alveoli consist of a fibrous membrane,
 covered by a very fine layer on which the nerves are dis

 posed.

      On each side of the tail of the skate (Eaia), partly in con
tact with the skin, but chiefly enveloped in the so-called
sacro-lumbalis muscle, is an elongated fusiform mass, which,

although its electro-motor power has not yet been experi
mentally determined, nevertheless exhibits all the structural
characteristics of an electrical battery. The mass consists of
a number of longitudinally and somewhat spirally arranged
series of discs ; the series being separated from, and connected
to, one another by thicker, the discs by thinner, layers of
areolar texture. The discs are somewhat triangular, quad
rangular, or pentangular in form, and are invariably arranged,
so that their two large surfaces or faces are directed, the one
backwards, the other forwards ; and their three, four, or five
smaller surfaces or margins enter into the formation of the

surface of the series to which they belong. Of the two large
surfaces, the anterior, or that towards the head of the animal,
is smooth and slightly convex ; the posterior slightly concave,
and presents numerous alveolar depressions of various but
graduated sizes, which penetrate two-thirds through the disc,

and are separated from one another by corresponding straight
or slightly-curved partitions, which diminish in size as they
pass off from three or four primary ridges, which radiate from
near the centre of the surface, and thus separate the alveoli
into larger and smaller elliptical or angular groups. The
discs consist of jelly-like dotted or granular nucleated sub
stance ; the granules being arranged in the form of spheroidal
shells around clear spaces, in each of which a nucleus is situ
ated. The ultimate ramifications of the vessels and nerves

are situated not in but on the two large surfaces or faces of

296            ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.

the discs ; the former on the concave, alveolar, or posterior

face ; the latter on the convex, smooth, anterior face : and, like

the vascular and nervous trunks and branches of the organ,

lie in the midst of the areolar texture, which forms the

greater and lesser laminae of separation and connection of the

constituent series and discs of the battery. The ultimate

arterial twigs enter the areolar texture which lines the con

cave face of each disc ; and pass into the alveoli as bundles

of looped capillaries, which are continued into similarly

arranged venous radicles. A number of ultimate nervous fila

ments spread from one of its margins through the areolar

lamina, which clothes the convex face of each disc, preserving

their double contours, until, becoming somewhat narrower,

they divide into two or three secondary filaments, which,

assuming an elongated fusiform aspect, and enclosing a

nuclear mass, pass into corresponding secondary divisions of

neighbouring filaments. The smooth convex surface of each

disc is thus covered by an areolar lamina, which contains a

network of ultimate branching and anastomosing nerve-fila

ments ; the secondary or division filaments, which form the

boundaries of the meshes of the network, having a peculiar

festooned or looped fusiform aspect, with a mass resembling

a nucleus in the centre of each.

     This organ bears a resemblance to the batteries of Torpedo,

and more particularly to those of Gymnotus, in the peculiar

relations of the nerves, vessels, and nucleated texture ; and if

an electrical current exists in certain circumstances (pro

bably when the animals are in season), it must pass in a
contrary direction to that of the Gymnotus --that
               ;                                                       from

tail to head.                                                     is,

     These organs in the tail of the rays were discovered by

Dr. Stark of Edinburgh and their relative and general struc
ture, as well as their probable function, described in an able

paper read to the Eoyal Society of Edinburgh in 1844 (Pro

ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.  297

ceedings of tlie Royal Soc. Ealin. Dec. 1844). As Dr. Stark's
description did not involve a sufficient account of the micro
scopic structure, which, in the absence of direct experimental
evidence, could alone afford the basis of a legitimate hypo

Ithesis as to the function of the organ, at the time under

took that inquiry, and stated the results in a paper read at a

subsequent meeting of the Society* In this paper the pre

sumed electrical organ was described as consisting of antero
posterior, or linearly-arranged series of compressed chambers,
lined by a nucleated gelatinous vascular substance ; and sus
pended in the cavities of the chambers numerous sling-like
anastomosing ultimate double contour nerve-tubes, with the
centre of each loop occupied by a nucleus. There was

also described a peculiar undulating ridge-structure (the
alveoli of Eobin), somewhat similar to the grooved and pitted
marking on the dermal plates of certain fossil fishes ; but the
relations of this structure to the nucleated gelatinous texture
were not determined ; although its probable importance was
indicated as a characteristic feature in an organ which could

only be referred to electrical structures.
      The entire structure of the presumed electrical apparatus

in the rays, has, since Dr. Stark's discovery, been redis
 covered, and most minutely and accurately described by
 Eobin (An. des Set. Nat. 1847) ; and from his descriptions,
 aa verified by myself, the account in this lecture has been

 derived.

     As the four nerves distributed to each battery of Torpedo
 are branches of the fifth and eighth cerebral pairs, the nervous
 centre of its electrical apparatus is situated in the medulla

      * This paper was read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, 6th January
 1845 ; but its title only is recorded in the Proceedings of that day. In a
 manuscript found amongst his papers, he states that he was then engaged in
 observations on the structure of the electrical organs of two of the electrical
 fishes (torpedo and gymnotus), made during dissections for the University
 collection. -- Eds.

298            ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.

oblongata, and consists of a large lobe on each side of its an

terior part. Valentin (" Electricitat der Thiere," in Wagner's
Handworterb) states that these lobes consist of nucleated
cellules so large as to be visible to the naked eye. The an

terior or trigeminal electrical nerve is derived from the non-

ganglionic portion of the third division of the fifth ; the three

posterior or vagal electrical nerves pass out along with the

branchial divisions of the eighth nerve, but have no connec

tion with the ganglionic masses developed on the branchial

nerves. These electrical nerves belong, therefore, to the non-

ganglionic series, with central relations similar to those of

motor nerves.

     The batteries of Gymnotus are supplied by about 224 pairs

of nerves Hunter, Phil. Trans. 1775 Eudolphi, Abhand.(J.
der K. Akad. zu Berlin, 1820) on each side. These are all
derived from the inferior or motor roots of the spinal nerves
                                               ;
                                                                                                  ;

none being supplied by the lateral nerve, or combined branch

of the fifth and eighth. The spinal cord exhibits no peculiar

development, nor indication of the existence in of series
                                               a

                                                               it
                                                                         a
of electrical nervous centres but Valentin (Wagner's Hand
                                            ;

worterb. loc-eit. 1842) has described          great lobe springing

from each side of the brain between the peduncle of the

cerebellum and the mesocephalon, extending upwards and

forwards with its fellow of the opposite side, like an anterior

or supplementary cerebelhim. These lobes, according to

Valentin, exhibit no trace of the large characteristic nucleated

cells which exist in the electrical lobes of Torpedo. Whether

the electrical lobes in Gymnotus be peculiar developments of

the cerebellum, or of the grey matter at the cerebral ex

tremities of the motor columns of the spinal cord, they present

highly interesting arrangement.
is a

                ;

                  a
                                        is
     The presumed deep electrical layer of Malapterurus, which

merely fatty mass,                          supplied by branches of the spinal

nerves but the true electrical organs or batteries are supplied,

ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.  299

                                                                                                                               

the one on each side, by a longitudinal nerve, accompanied by

an artery and vein, which pass along on their mesial aspects.

This nerve was formerly considered to be a branch of the

eighth pair ; but Pacini (sopra Vorgano elettrico del Siluro
elettrico del Nilo, 1846) describes it as derived from the first
spinal nerve. Ecker has more recently stated (Siebold and

Kolliker's Zeitschrift, July 1854), that, according to Bilharz,

" the electrical nerve on each side appears to be a new ele

ment intercalated between the third and fourth spinal nerves."
From the same communication it appears that Bilharz has
found the trunk of the electrical nerve of the Nilotic Malap-
terurus to consist not of a bundle of ultimate filaments, but

of one such filament only, one-fourth of a line in diameter,

surrounded by three fibrous sheaths, so as to present an entire
thickness of one line. From this remarkable structure, Ecker

has suggested to Bilharz further observations to determine
whether the nervous centre of the electrical apparatus in this
fish may not be a colossal unipolar nerve cell. From the
peculiar structure of the trunk of the nerve, it is also evident
that its branches and twigs of distribution must be subdivi
sions of the original single filament ; in this respect resembling
the subdivisions of the ultimate filaments in Torpedo, as

observed by Wagner.
     The presumed electrical organs in the tail of the skate are

supplied by numerous nervous twigs, derived from the ventral
or motor roots of the spinal nerves of the corresponding portion

of the tail. These are distributed, as already stated, on the
anterior faces of the discs, and do not exhibit at their spinal

extremities any appreciable central development.

     Physiologists admit, as a general fact, the disturbance of

the electric equuibrium in the processes of the living organised

body. In vegetables this development of electricity is re
markable. In animals the discovery of Galvani, and the

researches of Matteucci, and more particularly of Du Bois

300  ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.

Keymond on the electro-motor phenomena of muscle and
nerve, prove that in these structures currents take place, the
result of nutritive process as well as of functional action ;
and the observations of Mr. Baxter (Phil. Trans. 1848-52,
Proceedings of Royal Soc. 1855) have determined the existence
of electrical currents manifested during secretion and respi
ration. There can be no doubt whatever, that in every living

organism more or less numerous and powerful electric dis
turbances are produced by its organic processes ; and that its
general electric equilibrium is provided for by the resulting
currents in the organism itself, and in the medium in which
it lives. The problem which the physiologist has to solve, in
attempting to explain the mode of action of the electrical
apparatus in the fish, may be therefore thus briefly stated :
What are the anatomical conditions, and the vital actions
(meaning by vital all the actions of whatever kind, performed
by the living structure), essential to the production of a
sensible current of electricity, such as is produced by the
apparatus in question ?

     Here it becomes necessary to review the more important
successive opinions which have been taken of the electric
property of the apparatus. Walsh (Phil. Trans. 1773) con
cluded that the electricity of the Torpedo resides in the
electric organs ; that their upper and under surfaces are
capable, from a state of electric equilibrium, of being instantly
thrown, by a mere energy, into a plus and minus state, like
that of a charged phial ; and that the current results from a
conducting medium between their opposite surfaces being sup
plied, naturally, by the medium in which the animal lives, or
artificially. The dependence of the electro-motor energy of the

apparatus on the nervous centre has been more distinctly stated
by Matteucci (Biblioth. Univ. xii.) and Dr. John Davy (Phil.
Trans. 1834), the batteries being therefore viewed as analo

gous to Leyden jars, or an inductive apparatus. Eudolphi (loc.

ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.  301

cit.) considered the perpendicular prisms in Torpedo as gal
vanic piles, the horizontal series in Gymnotus as trough
arrangements ; but without entering into the details of the
comparison. This view of their action does not explain the
intermittent and voluntary character of the discharges. For,
as Valentin (loc. cit) has stated, the organs in the fish cannot
be complete galvanic batteries, or they would be continually
charged, and a discharge would follow every suitable closure
of the circuit. Valentin (loc. cit.) proposes the following
theory of the apparatus, based on Moser's (Dove and noser's
Bepertorium der Physik, 183*7) hypothesis of the action of the
 fluid of the cells of the battery on the substance of the nerves
 contained in it. He assumes the structure of the battery to-
 be a series of closed spaces ; the series enveloped in thicker,
 the spaces separated by thinner aponeurotic laminae ; each
 space being lined by a vascular epithelium, under which the
 nervous plexuses lie ; and filled with fluid. He supposes
 that there results from the organic or nutritive reactions of the
 circulating blood, the epithelium, and the contained fluid of
 each space, a certain amount of electric force, not, however,
 sufficient to overcome the insulating obstacle opposed to it in

 the aponeurotic walls ; all the spaces in the battery are,
 therefore, so far only insulated electrical spaces. As soon,
 however, as the will of the animal determines a flow of

 nervous force into the spaces, the organic reactions become so

 much exalted, that the resolved electric force overcomes the

 insulating power of the laminae, and a current is produced --

 the current being confined to the series by their thicker
 aponeurotic walls. This theory, although it may account for
 a sudden increase of electricity in the organ, affords no ex
 planation of its progressive character ; the current is not

  accounted for.

       The theory which most satisfactorily combines the ana-
  tomico-physiological as well as the electrical phenomena of

302  ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.

the apparatus, is that lately propounded by Professor Pacini

of Florence (Sulla strultura intirrm dell organo elettrico del
Oymnoto, e di altri pesci elettrici, 1852). Having discovered

the important anatomical fact, that the nerves are distributed

on one surface only of the electrical elements of the battery ;

while the vessels and nucleated cellular texture occupy the

other ; he finds in these structural peculiarities the condition

wanting in Valentin's theory -- an explanation of the progres

sion of the electricity--the current.  Pacini refers the

electrical batteries in the fish to two forms of structure, and

two modes of action ; of the first and simplest form the Tor

pedo affords the type, of the second and more complicated,

the Gymnotus. The batteries of Malapterurus are probably

referable to the Torpedinal type, those of Eaia certainly to

that of Gymnotus. In the Torpedinal type of battery, accord

ing to Pacini, the action is analogous to that which takes

place in a thermo-electric pile, inasmuch as he conceives it to

depend upon a dynamical difference, a certain different con

dition, in the two surfaces of each diaphragm of this binary

type of pile. The nerve-surface and the vasculo-cellular sur

face of a Torpedinal diaphragm correspond to the bismuth

and copper, or bismuth and antimony elements of a thermo

electric arrangement ; the nervous influence in the former

taking the place of the heat applied in the latter. There is

here assumed, what on other grounds is highly probable, that

the electrical and nervous forces are correlative ; and here it
must be admitted that in Torpedo, as pointed out by John

Hunter (Phil. Trans. 1773), the bulk of the nerves in relation
to the batteries is much greater than in Gymnotus, which

exemplifies Pacini's second or ternary type of animal battery.

When the Torpedo, therefore, wills a shock, or when, through

the reflex action of its electrical nervous centre, a shock is

                                                                                                                                                       ·

induced, a sudden and copious nervous influx flowing over the

under surfaces of its electric diaphragms, the upper surfaces

ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.  303

are thrown into an opposite electrical condition, and a current

is the consequence.
     Pacini refers the structure of the battery in Gymnotus to

a ternary type ; consisting of a negative element -- the fibrous
layer on which the nerves ramify, together with the fluid
which it bounds below ; a positive element -- the ridged
vasculo-cellular layer ; and a conducting element, the inter-
diaphragmatic fluid. The vasculo-cellular layer predominat
ing in this ternary type over the nervous, Pacini conceives
the electricity to be evolved in the organic actions of the
vasculo-cellular layer under the influence of the nerves. In
other words, the will of the Gymnotus, or the reflex action of

its electrical nervous centre, directs an influence along the
nerves of its batteries over the fibro-nervous layer ; which
suddenly exciting the nutritive or other organic actions of the

highly-developed vasculo-cellular layer, an electrical disturb
ance is produced ; with an opposite electrical condition of
the fibro-nervous and vasculo-cellular layers of the diaphragms,
and cpnsequently a current through the series. Pacini com

 pares the wide-meshed fibrous layer, on the under surface of
which the nerves ramify to the hollow cylinder of porous clay,
 which in a Bunsen's or Grove's galvanic arrangement separates

 the negative from the positive elements.
      As to the manner in which the animal avails itself of the

 electrical currents which it has the power of exciting, without
 alluding to the numerous experiments which have been made

Ion the Torpedo in air, shall confine myself to the mode in

 which the Torpedo and Gymnotus use their currents as means

 of offence and defence in their proper aqueous medium. In

 the first place, it is evident that in water, the currents between

 the opposite surfaces of Torpedo, or between the ends of Gym
 notus, instead of being confined to a transverse area of limited
 extent, as when they pass along a wire during a discharge in
 the air, must be diffused through a considerable extent of

304     ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.

the water surrounding the fish. The entire current force of

the batteries must, in fact, be subdivided into numerous sub

ordinate axes of force arranged in lines which come round the

margins of Torpedo from back to belly, and along the sides of

Gymnotus from head to tail. It is evident, therefore, that

another fish placed so that its antero-posterior axis is in the

line of inductive action in the water, will be affected less

powerfully by the circulating electric power than if it were

placed across these lines. Mr. Faraday (Phil. Trans. 1839)

found that although the Gymnotus can stun and kill fishes

which are in various positions in relation to its own body, it

can, moreover, by throwing itself so as to form a coil enclosing

                             it

                                            it,

                                               if
the fish, the latter representing a diameter across so concen

trate its currents of one side as to strike motionless as by

lightning. The Torpedo would also appear, from the observa

tions of Dr. Davy, instinctively to elevate or arrange its

margin so as to adjust the direction of its currents to the

position of the object through which wishes to pass them.
" Thus," as Mr. Faraday observes, " the very conducting power
                             it
                                ; it
                                                   it
                                                           is
                                                         it
which the water has that which gives to the moistened
                          ;

skin of the fish or animal to be struck the extent of surface

by which the fish and water conducting the charge to are
in contact all conduce to favour and increase the shock upon
     ;

the doomed animal" (Phil. Trans. 1839). Here,         to be

noted that one of the chief difficulties in explaining the

operation of the electrical apparatus in the fish has been the

necessity of admitting certain amount of insulating property
                        a
in certain of the textures composing and surroundinga          and
                                a

                                            it

                                                            ;
in conceiving the apparatus acting at all in medium which

conducts so freely as water. The apparatus in fact owes its
efficiency in such medium to its peculiar combination of
                    is a
quantity and intensity. The battery of the fish, in relation to

its final purpose,           perfect instrument yet, from another
                             ;

point of view, and in one sense, when compared with an arti

            ELECTRICAL ORGANS IN FISHES.                    305

ficial electrical apparatus, it is imperfect. It is necessarily

                   is,

                         ;

                                    a
                                                   is,
most insufficiently insulated, and there therefore, an enor

mous loss of electricity but the quantity produced com
                                                        is

paratively so enormous that enough remains to form an

efficient circuit. It in fact, remarkable example of the

munificent power and perfect freedom of action, in combina

tion with strict adhesion to law, which distinguish the work

of the Creator in the formation and economy of organised

beings and         only to be imitated in the most imperfect
;

          it
               is

manner by human ingenuity.

The presumed correlation of the nervous and electrical

forces in no way trenches on the psychical department of

physiology, and has no tendency to exclude the psychical or

proper vital element from the science of organisation. The

physiology of man, at all events, can only be successfully

studied and prosecuted by approaching from two opposite
                               it
poles. From the one, we approach its somatic department
                                    ;
through anatomy, chemistry, and physics by the kind of

evidence and method of research common to all such sciences.

From the other, guided by an evidence and method totally

different in kind, we enter on its intellectual and moral de

partments through philosophy and revelation*

     * This lecture was illustrated by selection from the very complete seriesa
of preparations of electrical organs in the Comparative Anatomy series in the
Museum of the University.

306  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

XVI.-- A BRIEF REVIEW OF THE PRESENT STATE
                 OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

The general Theory of Electricity has rapidly approached a
consistent form through the labours of recent physicists and
particularly by the researches of Mr. Faraday. The hypo
theses of one or of two electric -fluids, however modified,

have been found tenable only so far as they involve the

idea of force. In the phenomena of statical as in those

of current electricity, there is constantly pressed upon the
observer the necessity of admitting two forces, or two
forms or directions of a force, inseparable from one another.
And thus " the influence which is present in an electrical
condition may best be conceived of as an axis of power
having contrary forces, exactly equal in amount, in contrary

directions."*

     This peculiar form of force manifests itself in different
kinds of inorganic matter, under circumstances such as fric
tion, change of temperature, magnetic influence, and chemical

action.

    It is also manifested in organised beings, not only under

circumstances in which they stand related to it as masses of
mere matter ; but more particularly during the actions per
formed by their component textures and organs.

     Electrical science has been hitherto chiefly prosecuted in
the region of inorganic nature ; and although Volta opened

      * Faraday, Philosophical  Transactions ; and Experimental Researches in
Electricity.

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.                      307

up a boundless field of discovery, yet organic electricity still

remains comparatively uncultivated.

    In the investigation of electrical force as manifested in

organic nature, the peculiar economy of the organised being

must be taken into account. Each organised being, although

dependent on certain external circumstances as the conditions

of its existence,
it                                   nevertheless, system per sc. Irrespective
            it                       a

                                is,                 it
of those electrical conditions into which may be thrown,

through surrounding bodies, or through the medium in which

lives, undoubtedly contains more or less numerous sources

of electrical disturbance, in the numerous processes and

arrangements productive of currents in the structures which

collectively constitute its organisation. The organised being                   '

may be considered electrically as system of electrical currents
                                     a

excited by electrical arrangements in the disposition of its

fluids, textures, and organs.

So far as has yet been ascertained, these electrical currents,

with the exception of those produced by the special batteries

in the electrical fishes, are not employed in the economy of

the being. They are merely necessary consequences of the

organic processes carried on by the different structures and
                                                        ;

effect, by their arrangement, the distribution of the resulting

electricity, and the maintenance of the general electrical equi

librium of the organic sytem. The detection and investigation

of these organic electrical phenomena are, however, important,

not only for general electrical science, but also for the eluci

dation of the organic processes themselves. Kesidual pheno

mena, as such electrical disturbances must generally be

considered in physiology, will, when investigated, indicate the

probable nature of the actions from which they result.

            Electrical Phenomena in Vegetables.

     Various observers have proved the existence in plants of
arrangements which affect the condenser and galvanometer.

  308 PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

 The experiments of Fouillet* on electricity developed in, or
 in connection with, young plants in a state of growth, al
 though valuable, present too many sources of fallacy to be

 available at present. Donnef was the first to point out the
 opposite electrical conditions of different parts of vegetables.
 He found the opposite extremities of certain fruits, and even
 the juices removed from those parts, to be in different electri
 cal states ; and thus opened up a new field of organic electri
 city, which promises, when more fully investigated, to lead to

 important results. The most precise information, however,
 regarding the effect of different parts of vegetables on the gal
 vanometer are contained in two communications by M.
 Becquerel in the Memoirs of the French Academy,\ and in a
 notice by Professor Wartmann in the Bihliothhgue Universelle

 de Geneve.§ The researches themselves are not yet suffi
 ciently advanced to admit of a satisfactory analysis. Indeed,
 as M. Becquerel observes, the electrical effects are so complex
 that it is unsafe to draw any conclusion regarding the part
 which electricity takes in the organic functions. Hitherto,
 therefore, in his researches, he has considered electricity
rather as an effect, serving to elucidate the study of physiology,
than as a primary cause of organic phenomena. Much diffi
culty exists in determining whether certain currents, indi
cated by the instrument, are primary or derived ; and also in

ascertaining how far the observed currents are produced by
    * " Sur l'Electricite dea fluides elostiques, et sur une des causes de l'Elee-

tricité de 1'Atmosphere. "--Ann. de Chim. et de Physique, tom. xxxv. 1827.

    t " Recherches sur quelques unes des Proprietes Chimiques des secretions

et sur les courants électriques qui existent dans les Corps Organizes." -- Ann.

Jde Chim. et de Physique, tom. lvii. 1834.

       " Recherches sur les causes qui degagent de l'electricite dans les regetaux,

et sur les courants vegetaux terrestres;" and "Memoire sur les effets élec
triques obtenus dans les tubercules, les racines, et les fruits, au moyen d'ai-
guilles de platine." -- Mem. de VAcad. des Sciences, torn, xxiii.

    § " Note sur les Courants electriques qui existent dans les vegetaux." --

Billiothique Universelle de Oenive, torn, xv. 1850.

              PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.                                                             309

unavoidable injury of texture, and consequent mixing of fluids,
by the insertion of the platina electrodes. The progress of
animal electricity had, previously to the labours of Du" Bois
Keymond,* been impeded by similar circumstances ; and
until the electro-motor properties of the component parts of
vegetables are in some way separately investigated, as those of

muscle and nerve have been by the observer alluded to, no
solid progress can be looked for in vegetable electricity.

     The general arrangement of the parts of a plant, and the
functions they perform, indicate the probable direction of the
resulting electrical disturbances. The differences in the con
stitution of the ascending and descending portions of the axis,
and of their different transverse segments, naturally indicate
the existence of longitudinal currents ; while the structural
and functional differences between the central and superficial
portions of the axis point to transverse or radiating lines of
force. Accordingly, all the observations of Donne\ Becquerel,
and Wartmann, indicate currents, primary or derived, in the
longitudinal and transverse direction, in roots, tubers, stems,

leaves, flowers and fruits.

      The Electrical Reactions of the Plant, Soil, and Atmosphere.

--The soil is in a constant negative, while the air, when calm
and free from clouds, is in a positive, electric condition.

      According to the experiments of Pouillet,t plants in the
later stages of germination, after they have protruded from
the soil, exhibit, by the condenser, an excess of negative elec
tricity. The explanation he gives according to Becquerel,!
 probably correct that the action of the oxygen of the air on
 the starch of the seed, during its conversion, gives an excess of
 positive electricity to the air, and of negative electricity to the
t
                                     ;
                                                        is,
                                                                                           p.
* Poggendorff'g Annalen, and Untersuchungcn iiber                                                   Thierische  Electri-

citat, 1848.

Ann. de Chim. et de Physique, loc. cit.

+ Mem. de VAcad. des Sciences, tom. xxiii.                                                     60.

310  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

plant and soil. The electrical effects observed by M. Pouillet,

in this first period of vegetation, correspond with the ordinary-

electrical conditions of the earth and atmosphere.

     But according to M. Becquerel's own observations,* the

electrical relations of the plant to the soil and air are reversed
Ifafter germination is completed.
                                   the electrodes of the gal

vanometer are inserted -- the one into the stem or branch, or

passed through a number of leaves laid together, but still
adherent, the other into the soil-- the former will exhibit an

excess of negative, the latter of positive electricity, in propor

tion to the humidity of the soil and the succulence of the

plant.

    It may, therefore, be presumed that in the act of vegetation,

after germination is accomplished, the ascending sap, which
communicates by means of the root with the soil, conveys to
it continuously the excess of positive electricity which it has
acquired during its course upwards in its reactions more par
ticularly with the descending sap ; while the latter furnishes

to the air, by exhalation, its excess of negative electricity.

      Vegetation, therefore, produces electric effects contrary to
those which render the air and soil respectively positive and

negative.

    Longitudinal Electrical Currents in the Dicotyledonous Plant.
--Becquerel states! that if the electrodes of the galvanometer

be inserted transversely into the parenchyma of the bark, the

one a certain distance above the other, or if one be inserted

between the bark and wood, and the other be passed through

a number of leaves, superimposed and still adherent, the
needle will indicate a current passing from below upwards}

* Mem. de VAcad. des Sciences, tom- xxiii. pp. 61, 62.     is a conventional

t Ibid., tom. xxiii. pp. 55, 56.

J The statement of the direction of an electrical current

form of expression, which ought to convey merely an indication of the relative

posilions of its positive and negative extremities, and consequently of the two
polar forces, both of which exist in the current. In the circuit formed by the

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.  311

through the parenchyma, the upper electrode indicating posi
tive, the lower negative electricity. M. Becquerel accounts
for the relative electrical conditions of the green parenchyma
from the leaves downwards by the removal of oxygen.

      But the observations of M. Becquerel on the relative elec
trical conditions of the plant and soil indicate the existence
of a descending current passing from the stem through the
roots into the earth, which therefore becomes positive around

the plant.
     M. Wartmann, in the notice already quoted* states that

in the roots, the stem, the branches, the petioles, and peduncles,

there exist a central descending current, and a peripheral
ascending one, which he denominates axial currents ; and that .
the galvanometer indicates currents from every part of the
plant, aerial or subterranean, to the soil, which is thus positive
in relation to the plant.

     From these observations of Becquerel and Wartmann, little
doubt can be entertained that electrical currents exist in the

dicotyledonous plant, in the course of the circulation of its
sap, but in an opposite direction to it.

      Currents passing from within outwards, and from without

inwards in the horizontal section of the Dicotyledonous Plant. --
According to Becquerel,t if one electrode be inserted into the

pith, in a clean horizontal section of a young poplar, and the
other into one of the woody layers, or into the bark, the needle
is deflected 5°, 10°, 15°, or more, according to the delicacy of

galvanometer, the current which traverses its wire, and which deflects the
magnetic needle, is conventionally said to pass from the positive to the nega
tive electrode ; while in the electro-motor portion of the circuit--e.g. a portion
of vegetable structure --the current is said to pass in the opposite direction.

But " there is never one current of force, .or one fluid only." "In a current,

whatever form the discharge may take, or whatever part of the circuit or
current is referred to, as much positive force as is there exerted in one direction,
so much negative force is there exerted in thu other."

     * Bib. Univ. dc Genive, tom. xv. p. 302.

   t Loe. cit. p. 44.

312  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

the instrument, the succulence of the tree, or the radial
distance of the layer into which the second electrode has
been inserted ; a current from without inwards is indicated,
the electrode in the pith being positive, that in the wood or

bark negative.

   If the one electrode be inserted close to the outside, and

the other be removed from the pith, and be reinserted from
place to place outwards, the current will diminish in intensity
as the second electrode approaches the cambium. Beyond

the cambium the current changes its direction and becomes
stronger. The current which now deflects the needle passes
along the wire from without inwards, indicating a positive
electric condition of the outer part of the parenchyma, and a
negative condition of the cambium.

      On removing a piece of bark, and applying the electrodes,
(which in this experiment should consist of platinum plates)
to its opposite surfaces, the current becomes very intense. The
piece of bark thus forms a voltaic couple, of which the ex
terior or parenchymatous side is positive, and the interior,

covered by the cambium, negative.

    It would appear then that, from the pith to the cambium,

the woody layers are less and less positive in relation to the
pith ; whilst from the cambium to the cuticle, the parenchy

matous layers are more positive, or at least comport themselves
as such in the production of derived currents. This inversion
of the electrical effects corresponds with the relative position

of the cellular texture in the bark and wood. In the bark, it

is on the exterior ; in the wood, in the interior ; in both it is

positive.

     In the notice by M. Wartmann, in the Bibliotteque Uni-

verselle de Genhe* that observer states that " in uniting by
the galvanometer the layers of the stem where the liber and

cambium touch one another (and where many botanists admit
                            * Bib. Univ. de Genive, tom. xv. p. 301.

             PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.           313

a passage of desceuding juices), either with the most central
parts (the pith or the perfect wood), or with the parts more
exterior (the young bark), a lateral current will be found
tending from these layers to the neighbouring organs."

    It would appear, therefore, that currents pass from the

contiguous surfaces of the bark and wood of the dicotyle

donous plant outwards towards the cuticle, and inwards to
the pith ; or at least, arrangements exist in these directions
which excite currents in the opposite directions through the

galvanometer wire.

     Currents in the Root and its Dependencies. -- According to
M. Wartmann,* in some roots the central structures and the

cortical structures are, as in the stem, positive in relation to
the layers by which they touch and are united.

     Centrifugal transverse currents would appear to exist in
certain roots, which resemble tubers in the quantity of their
nutritious deposits. For Becquerel t has found the central
part of the carrot, and of the red and white beetroot, negative
 in relation to the exterior.

     In the potato, in the tubers of the Heliantlms tuherosus

 and Lathyrus tuherosus, currents radiate from the centre to
 the cuticle ; for the electrode at the centre is negative in

 relation to the other, the latter indicating a more positive
 condition the nearer it is placed to the cuticle. Becquerel,

 who has ascertained these facts, and refers them to the system
 of transverse currents in the bark, states at the same time

 that in the tubers of Tropceolum tuberosum, and Ullucus

 tuherosus, the currents are reversed, and correspond, there
 fore, with the transverse system in the wood and pith of the

 dicotyledonous stem.

  * Bib. Univ. de Gen6ve, tom. xv.

t"      Memoire sur les effets electriques obtenus dans lea  tubercules, lea racines,
  etles fruits, au moyen d'aiguilles de platine. "-- Mem.    de VAcad. des Sciences,

tom- xxiii.

314  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

     It remains to be determined how far the single transverse

 system of electrical currents in either direction, in certain
 roots, and in tubers, depends upon the disappearance of the
 central or peripheral elements of the axis.

     On Currents in Leaves. --The relations and functions of the

 leaf indicate the probable direction of the electrical currents
which may exist in it.

     Becquerel's * observations lead to the conclusion that cur
rents set from the cambium to the parenchyma of the leaf ;
while at the same time it is negative in relation to the pith
and wood of the branch and stem. He states that the leaves

comport themselves as the green part of the parenchyma of

the bark--that is to say, the sap which circulates in their
tissues is negative in relation to the wood, pith, and soil ; and

positive in relation to the cambium.
     M. Wartmann-f states that in most leaves the currents

proceed from the limb of the leaf to its veins, and to the

central parts of its petiole, and of the stem.
      This centripetal current attributed to the leaf by Becquerel

and Wartmann is evidently referable to the central or de
scending axial current of the plant ; while the centrifugal

current alluded to by the former belongs to the superficial
transverse system, or that between the inner and outer aspects
of the bark.

     The Electrical Condition of the Flower. --From the energetic

actions and rapid development of the flower, a considerable
amount of electrical disturbance is to be expected in it.
Various observers have ascertained the remarkable elevation

of temperature which occurs during the development of this
part of the plant ; and the important chemico-vital actions
which take place in it must certainly excite corresponding

electrical phenomena.
    * " Recherches sur les causes qui degagent de l'electricite," etc. -- Mem. de

VAcad. de Sciences, tom. xxiii.

   t liiblioOiique Universelle de GerUve, tom. xy.

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.  315

     The only observations in regard to these which have been
recorded are by Zantedeschi, quoted by Becquerel in his second
memoir.* The Italian observer found that at the period of
flowering in the tulip, jonquil, and anemone, a deflection of
the needle to the extent of 3° or 4°, due to a descending cur
rent, occurs. He also found in an Azalea, an Amaryllis, a
white lily, and in various species of Opuntia, a current passing
from the stamen to the pistil ; the one electrode being in
contact with the pollen, the other inserted into the stigma.

    Electrical condition of the Fruit. --The only recorded ob

servations on this subject are by DonneVr in a memoir which
may be said to have introduced for the first time the subject
of vegetable, as well as certain important departments of

animal electricity.
     Donné found that when the platinum extremities of the

galvanometer wire are plunged into certain fruits, the one at
the stalk, the other at the opposite end, the parts exhibit

different electrical conditions. In the apple and pear a

current would appear to pass from the stalk towards the eye
at the opposite end; whilst in the peach and apricot the

current passes in the contrary direction. In the apple and

pear the fruit is electro-positive at the distal end, electro
negative at the stalk ; the contrary being the case in the

peach and apricot.
     Irrespective of the chemical causes to which these currents

are ascribed by Donnt) and Becquerel, it might be well to
determine how far their opposite directions may be referable
to morphological differences in the two forms of fruit examined :
whether in the monocarpal form, as in the peach, the current
be not referable to the centripetal current of the leaf ; and
whether in the apple form (the fleshy mass of which is not a

    * " Memoire sur lea effects ilectriques," etc --Mem. de VAcad. de Sciences,

tom. xxiii.

   t Ann. de Chim. et de Physique, tom. lvii.

316  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

development of the carpellary leaf, but of the cortical layer of
the receptacle, and of the end of the peduncle) it is not due to

the same causes which produce the general superficial, or

cortical axial current in the plant.

     Arc the Currents which affect the Galvanometer derivedfrom
Currents which actually exist in tlie Plant ? or are they pro
duced by the Insertion of the Electrodes ?--M. Becquerel ex
presses himself very cautiously on this point ; and blames

certain physicists for entertaining inexact ideas regarding the

currents obtained from organised bodies by the galvanometer

platinum wires ; and for assuming that such currents are
necessarily derived from other currents which actually exist

in the plant. But M. Becquerel adds* somewhat inconsist
ently with his own admissions in other parts of his memoirs,
that nothing at present authorises an induction of this kind.
The effects, he states, appear to be due, at least in most cases,

to the reaction of different liquids in contact with the elec

trodes ; from which results such a disengagement of electricity,
as that the liquid, which comports itself as an acid in relation

to the other, sets free positive electricity.

    At the same time, M. Becquerel admits that the two neces

sary conditions for the production of primary currents exist
in the plant. The first that two liquids capable of acting
                     it,
                        is,

                                          is

                                             f
                                                                                                      a
chemically on one another should be arranged so as to do so

gradually and continuously, or that there should be, as M.

Becquerel expresses  "le contact des deux liquides per

transition insensible." The other  the intermedium of

conducting texture, or substance to complete the circuit. M.
Becquerel, accordingly, both in his memoirs and in his
abridgments in the Comptes Rendus,% seems inclined to admit
the two axial currents, and the horizontal system in the stem
and branches of the dicotyledonous plant. Beyond this he

     * Mem. dc  Acad. des Sciences, tom. xxiii.           Ibid.
                  Comptes Rendus, tom. xxxi. xxxii.
                tV

                                                       t

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.  317

appears, at the date of the publication of his memoirs, to have
drawn no more precise conclusion from the facts then ob
served ; and states that the electrical effects which take place
in vegetables are so numerous, that it has only been possible
hitherto to observe a limited number of them.

     M. Wartmann,* while he admits that the electro-chemical
action, which results from the tearing of the textures during
the insertion of the electrodes, produces at first a considerable
deflection of the needle, states, at the same time, that when
this action ceases, which it speedily does, there remains a more
feeble current, which must be due to the normal electrical

action of the parts. He states that vegetable currents pro
bably form closed circuits ; that the extremities of the root-
fibres on the one hand, and the terminations of the leaves on

the other, establish a continuity between the ascending peri
pheral and the descending central current ; while the simi
larity in the electrical condition of the exterior of the bark
and the interior of the wood probably depends on the medul

lary rays.
     To what Actions and Arrangements in the Plant are its

Electrical Disturbances and Currents due ? From what has
already been stated, it must appear that the knowledge
hitherto obtained of the relations and circumstances of the
electrical disturbances and currents in the plant is not yet
sufficiently precise to afford a solution of this question. Be
fore the publication of Du Bois Eeymond's researches on the
electrical actions of muscle and nerve, and of Pacini on the
structure of the batteries in the Torpedo and Gymnotus, elec
trical excitement in the animal body had not been accurately
connected with anatomical structure ; and until a definite
electrical current in the plant is distinctly referred to a demon
strable structural arrangement, a precise determination of the
exciting causes of currents in the latter cannot be expected.

                                   * Bib. Univ. de Genive, tom. xv.

318  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

We are not, indeed, acquainted with the actual chemical oris,
physical causes of electrical excitement in any animal texture
or organ ; but we now know the direction and relations of the
current in and to the anatomical structure in certain cases.

This is a secure step in the proper direction, and one which

has yet to be taken in vegetable electricity.

    At present, therefore, it can only be stated generally that

the disturbance of electric equilibrium in the textures and
organs of the plant is due to the chemical action which plays

so important a part in the organic processes --at its surface, as

during transpiration, respiration proper, and the fixation of
carbon -- and in its interior, during the reaction of its ascend
ing and descending sap, with the substances contained in the

cells of its various structures. In the same manner, no precise

statement can be made at present regarding the arrangements
by means of which electrical currents are produced in the
plant. The researches of Becquerel* have proved that a
current is produced when two liquids of acid and alkaline re

actions respectively, and separated from one another by a

porous substance, are connected either by a fluid or solid con

ductor. It is quite evident that similar physical and chemical

conditions for the production of currents exist in innumerable

forms in the organisation of vegetables. It however, im

possible in the present phase of the subject to define them

with greater precision.
                            Animal Electricity.

     The first discovery in animal electricity was the deter
mination of the electrical character of the shock of the

Torpedo by Walsh in 1772. The development of the sub

ject has since been retarded, not only by its own intrinsic
difficulty, but also by the greater attractions of those depart

ments of general electricity which were opened up by
    "* Recherches sur lea circuits electro-chimique simple forme" de liquides."

-- Camples Sendus, tom. xxiv.

         PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.   319

the labours of Volta. Its history presents three distinct lines
of research --that of the special electrical organs of the fish,
commencing with the discovery of Walsh in 1772,* that of
the electrical properties of muscle and nerve, starting from
the fundamental experiment of Galvani in 1786-94, t and that
of the electrical phenomena of membranes and glands, intro
duced by Donné in 1834 +

     The results which have ultimately been attained in these
three directions will now be briefly examined ; but in order to
obtain a more comprehensive view they shall be taken up in

the reverse order.

     Electric Phenomena in connection with Membrane and
Gland. --The experiments of Donne are now alluded to only
because they were the first which proved electric disturbance
in connection with secreting membrane and structure. He
found that when the electrodes of the galvanometer were
applied respectively to the mucous membrane of the mouth

and to the skin, the needle deviated 15°, 20°, or 30° ; the

former being negative, the latter positive. In the same

manner, when the instrument was applied between the mucous
membrane of the stomach and the gall-bladder, or interior of

the liver, the needle deviated 30°, 40°, or 50°.

     Donné attributed these electric effects to the acid and alka

line properties of the secretions with which the electrodes
were respectively in contact. Matteucci,§ again, while ad
mitting the correctness of Donne's experimental results, attri
buted, asDrs. Wollastonll and Thomas YounglT had previously

* " Of the Electric Property of the Torpedo. "--Phil. Trans. 1773.

t De Viribus ElectricUatis in Motu Musculari Gommcntarius ; Bologna,

1791.

   t Ann. dc Chim. et de Phys. tom. lvii. 1834.

§ Ibid. tom. lvi.           " On the Agency of Electricity on Animal Secre
|| Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiii.

tions."

H Young. Syllabus of Lectures on Medicine.

320  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

done, the difference of the chemical composition of the secre

tions to the electric force itself. It is evident, therefore, that

the ingenious conjectures of Wollaston and Young, and the
experiments of Donne and Matteucci, merely indicated a
promising field of discovery, and formed a prelude to researches
which promised more precise results after the structures

experimented upon had been more definitely selected.

     The Electric Relations of Mucous Membrane. -- Mr. H. F.

Baxter has recorded the results of his experiments on this sub
ject.* The principal object Mr. Baxter had in view was to
determine the relative electric condition of the secretions of
the mucous membrane, and of its vessels and blood ; fulfil

ling, therefore, what has already been stated as an apparent

condition of success in all such inquiries--viz. experimenting,

as far as can be, on distinct textures or organs, and not on
their aggregations.

      The mucous membrane of the stomachs, and of the small
and large intestines, of the rabbit, cat, and guinea-pig, were
selected ; and pointed and flattened platinum electrodes ap
plied respectively to the surface of the mucous membrane,
and inserted into the vessels. The following were the general

results :--

      1. The inside and outside of the gut were formed into a
circuit without effect.

      2. One electrode on the mucous membrane, the other
inserted into an artery proceeding to the same spot, produced
no effect.

     3. One electrode on the mucous membrane, the other in
serted into a vein proceeding from the same spot, indicated a
positive condition of the vein or its contents, by a deviation
of the needle to the extent of from 3° to 5°.

     * Phil. Trans. 1848. " An experimental inquiry, undertaken with a view
of ascertaining whether any, or what, signs of current electricity are manifested
during the organic process of secretion, in living animals," etc.

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.  321

     4. One electrode on the mucous membrane, the other in

serted into a vein emptied of its blood, produced no effect.

      5. One electrode applied to the mucous membrane, the
other inserted into a vein not proceeding from the same spot,

produced no effect.

    6. It was not necessary to insert the second electrode into
the vein, for the needle was deflected if the second electrode

was merely dipped into the blood flowing from the vein.
     Having ascertained how far the different solid and fluid

substances in contact with the electrodes might interfere
with the result, and also in what manner the effects were in

fluenced by the death of the animal, Mr. Baxter concluded

from his experiments, that --

      1. When the electrodes of a galvanometer are brought

into communication --one with the mucous membrane of the

alimentary canal, the other with the blood flowing from the

same part --a deviation of the needle takes place, indicating
that the secreted product and the blood are in opposite electric

 states.

      2. The effect occurs during the life of the animal, and

 ceases after its death.

      3. The effect may be considered as arising from the de
composition of the blood -- i.e. from the changes which occur
 during the formation of the secreted product and venous blood.

     4 These changes are effected by the organic actions of

 the part.

     The Electric Relations of Gland. --In a second paper,* Mr.

 Baxter records the experiments which he had made to deter
 mine the electric relations of the secretions and blood of the
 liver, kidney, and mammary gland. The facts which his ex

periments tend to establish are aa follow :--

       * Phil. Trans. 1852. An experimental inquiry undertaken with a view
 of ascertaining whether any, or what, signs of current electricity are manifested
 during the organic process of secretion in living animals, etc.

                                               Y

322  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

     1. During biliary secretion, the bile and venous blood flow

ing from the hepatic veins are in opposite electric states.
     2. During urinary secretion, the urine and venous blood

flowing from the renal vein are in op[)osite electric states.
     3. During mammary secretion, the milk and the venous

blood flowing from the mammary veins, are in opposite electric

states.

    In these experiments on glandular action, as in those de

scribed above on the alimentary mucous membrane, the venous

blood was found to be positive, producing a deflection of the

needle to the extent of 3°, 4°, 5°, 8°, 10°.

     The Electric Relations of the Respiratory Mucous Membrane

and the Pulmonic Blood. --Mr. Baxter, having ascertained that

the venous blood flowing from a secreting membrane or gland,
is in a positive electric condition, applied one electrode in
contact with the mucous membrane of the lung, and the other

in contact with the blood flowing from it--i.e. the arterial blood.

He thus found the blood of the pulmonary veins, or of the

left ventricle, invariably positive, producing a deflection of

2°, 3°, 4°, or 5°. At the same time, he ascertained that when

the respiratory mucous membrane and the blood of the right

ventricle are connected, a deflection of 2°, 3°, or 4°, occasionally

occurred. All his experiments tended to the same conclusion --

viz. that the blood of the pulmonary veins is positive ; and
that when a circuit is formed between the mucous membrane

of the lung, and the blood in the left ventricle of the heart,

a current is produced.

     Tlie Electric Properties of Muscle. -- Galvani having dis
covered and investigated the contractions produced by elec
tricity in the muscles of the frog, * afterwards observed similar

contractions when two dissimilar metals, in contact with one

another, are also brought into contact with the nerve and

muscles respectively of the frog's leg.f At first he appears to

     * Dc Viribus ElectriciUUis, etc.         t Ibid-

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.  323

have conceived the contractions to be due to electricity evolved
by the metals ; but finally he concluded that it is produced
by the animal textures themselves. The researches of Volta
verified the original opinion of Galvani, that the metals, when
they are employed, are the sources of the electricity which
produce the muscular contractions ;* but the discovery of the
pile, with its consequences, threw into temporary oblivion the
actual evidences of an electromotor property of the animal
textures independently of metals, which the numerous expe
riments of Galvani and his supporters had afforded.^ Even
Humboldt's observations did not prevent the almost total ne

glect of the subject for a quarter of a century. t
    In 1827, Nobili, || having applied his improved galvanometer

to the fundamental experiment of Galvani, discovered the elec
tric current of the frog. He found that when the circuit of
the nerve and muscles of the leg is closed by the instrument,
a deviation of the needle to the extent of 10°, 20°, or 30°, oc

curs, due to a current which passes in the limb from the toes
upwards, and which could be increased by inclosing in the
circuit several frogs arranged as a battery. There could no

longer be any doubt of the truth of Galvani's later opinion,
that electricity is developed in connection with muscle and

 nerve.

      The researches of Matteucci, carried on during a transi-

 tionary stage of the subject, and exhibiting occasional ob

 scurity and contradiction, are, nevertheless, valuable, not only

 from having directed attention generally to electro-physiology,
 but particularly from having, in regard to muscle, indicated
 that its electric properties are due to its own texture, and not to

 the conjoined nerves. He had always, however, experimented

      * Nuova Memoria delV Electririta Animate, etc.

    t DelV uso e delV attivitd delV arco conduttore nei eontrazione de' muscoli,

 1793 ; and Supplimenlo al Tratatto delV uso, etc. 1794.
      $ Versuche ueber die gereizte Muskel-und Nervenfaser, u. s. w., 1797.
      || Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. 1828

324  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

with masses, or aggregates of muscle, and had not attempted
to ascertain the laws of electric action in the muscular fibre

or bundle itself, or in a single isolated muscle.*
     These laws have been investigated by Du Bois Beymond,

who has ascertained that muscular structure presents two

distinct electric conditions --firstly, during the intervals of

contractions ; and secondly, during contraction.
    Electric Condition of a Muscle during the intervals of con

traction. -- Galvani conceived the outer surface of a muscle to

be charged with negative, the inner with positive electricity.
Matteucci had found that in order to produce contractions in
the galvanoscopic frog, two parts of its nerve must be brought
into contact with two parts respectively of the muscle of a

living animal ; and that the experiment uniformly succeeded

if the nerve touched the bottom of a wound in the muscle and

the margin of the wound at the same time. Du Bois Bey

mond has ascertained the actual relative electric condition of

certain surfaces or aspects of the muscular fibre or muscle.t

These aspects he denominates the longitudinal and transverse
sections. These sections, again, may be either natural or

artificial.
     The natural longitvdinal section is as much of the surface

of a muscle as is formed by the exposed sides of its superficial

fibres.                                                exposed

    An artificial longitudinal section is any surface
by a section in the direction of the muscular fibres.

The surface or side of a fibre or fasciculus viewed as a

cylinder or prism is its longitudinal section.

    A natural transverse section is any part of a muscle formed

by the extremities of its fibres, coated by tendon of attachment.

* Bib. Univ. de Gineve; Ann. de Chim. et de Phys. ; Traiti des Phino-

-mines Electro-physiolngique.   Current," p. 498, vol. i. of Untersuch. Whet

   t " The Law of the Muscular

Thicr. EleUricitai.

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.  325

     An artificial transverse section is a section made at right

angles to the fibres.
     The natural or artificial extremities of fibres are transverse

sections.

     By employing a very delicate galvanometer, and by certain
refined precautions in the arrangement of his experiments,
Du Bois Iteymond found that the longitudinal section, natural
or artificial, is invariably positive in relation to the natural
or artificial transverse section. The following are the general
laws of the derived muscular current.

    1. If any point of the natural or artificial longitudinal

section be put into connection, by means of the galvanometer,
with any point of the natural or artificial transverse section,
the needle will indicate a current in the wire from the longi
tudinal to the transverse section.

    2. If one point of the natural or artificial transverse section

of a muscle is brought into connection with another point of

the same or of another similar transverse section, and if the

points be unequally distant from the centre of the section
considered as the base of a muscular cylinder, a current is

indicated passing from the electrode furthest from the centre,
and directed to that which is nearest to it.

   If3. we now consider the mass of the muscle as a cylinder,

and connect a point of the natural or artificial longitudinal
section nearer the middle transverse section of the mass, with

a point of the natural or artificial longitudinal section more

distant from the middle, a current is indicated passing from

the nearer to the more distant point.

    4. If both connected points of one or of two natural or

artificial transverse sections be equally distant from the centre
of the surface, no current is indicated. So also in regard to

longitudinal sections, points equally distant from the middle

produced no current.

     These laws are most satisfactorily illustrated in the muscles

326  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

of rabbits and frogs, but they are essentially the same in man,
in representatives of the four vertebrate classes, and in molluscs,

crustaceans, and annelids.
     The electromotor power, which is exhibited in the muscular

current, does not depend upon the areolar texture, the tendons
or vessels, etc., of the mass ; or on the contact of dissimilar

textures with the muscular fibre ; for the power is exhibited

when the smallest manageable portion, or even a single primary
fasciculus, is employed. The power evidently resides in the

ultimate fibre.

     Du Bois Eeymond has investigated the arrangement of the
electromotor elements on which this power depends. After
various experiments, he succeeded in constructing a model
consisting of a solid copper cylinder, with its cylindrical sur
face coated with zinc, and suspended in or surrounded by an
electrolytic Liquid, which fulfilled by means of the galvanometer
all the conditions of the current as derived from the natural
sections of an entire muscle. He arranged another model,
consisting of a number of similar but smaller cylinders, set in
longitudinal series, so that the positive or zinc elements were
directed laterally, and the copper or negative in the longitudinal

direction. A combination of this kind, immersed in a fluid,

exhibited by means of the galvanometer not only the currents
of the natural section of an entire muscle, but also the currents
of its artificial sections. Du Bois Eeymond, therefore, con
cluded, that the conditions of the muscular current are fulfilled
by assuming in the muscular mass the existence of electromotor
centres, each of which may be conceived to be a molecule
consisting of an equatorial positive zone and two polar negative
zones, these molecules being arranged linearly, so that the
polar zones are in the direction of the muscular fibre.

     These investigations in no way anticipate the cause of the
electromotor property of the muscular fibre ; they bear only on
the laws of its action. They leave very little doubt that the

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.                            327

amuscular substance during its life, and in the intervals ofa    a
contraction, is in a state of electric tension ; and that there
                itare in it an infinite number of electromotor centres in connecitit,
tion with closed circuits, according to the laws already stated ;
and which must be infinitely stronger than those derivedit
currents which are procured from a muscle, or a portion of
by means of the galvanometer.a
                                               a
     Du Bois Eeymond having observed that the current de
rived from longitudinal section and from natural transversea
section was generally weaker than that from an artificial trans
                                                  a
verse section, and that was even occasionally not obtainable
when the electric tension of the muscle was much diminished
by cold, found, on further investigation, that was necessary
to admit the existence of layer of peculiar electromotor
elements at the ends of the muscular fibres »in contact with

the tendon. He denominates this the parelectronomic layer,
as produces current opposed to the general muscular
current, and must therefore present its positive elements
towards the tendon. Tor the purpose of including this layer
in his general theory, he modifies his conception of the elec
tromotor molecules, and illustrates the entire action by cor
responding change in his model. Instead of the molecules
being, as he had denominated them, peripolar--possessing an
equatorial positive and two polar negative zones, he substi
tutes for each of such molecules pair of dipolar molecules
with their positive poles in contact, and their negative directed
away from one another. If, now, the parelectronomic layer be
conceived as formed of one set only of such dipolar molecules,
they must necessarily have their positive poles next the ten
dinous surface.

     This hypothesis not only satisfies the general law of the
muscular current, but also affords reason for the counteract

ing influence of the natural transverse section, and the facility

328  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

with which it can be removed by any fluid which corrodes or

acts upon the muscular fibre, or by the knife*
    The general Muscular Current. -- Nobili discovered, by

means of the galvanometer, that a current passed from the
Iftoes towards the head of the frog.
                                      the animal be deprived

of its skin, and bent backwards so that its feet dip into one

vessel and its snout into another, the vessels being filled with

a saturated solution of common salt, and connected by the
electrodes, the needle will indicate a current in the galvano
meter wire from the head to the feet. According to Du Bois

Eeymond, the general current may, by certain precautions, be

detected even in the undissected frog, although the circuit is
partially closed by the skin. This current is the resultant of
the currents of all the individual muscles of the frog ; for Du

Bois Eeymond found, firstly, that in some muscles the cur

rents set from head to feet, in others in the opposite direction ;

secondly, that the electromotor power of a muscle is directly

as its length and thickness ; and, thirdly, that if two muscles

are opposed to one another in a circuit, the thicker or the

longer overcomes the other.

     This general muscular current must therefore exist in every

animal possessing muscular arrangements, at least in the four

vertebrate classes. It does not, however, necessarily assume

the same general direction in all.f

    Electric condition of a Muscle during Contraction. --This

condition has not yet been accurately determined. Matteucci

observed, that when two prepared frog's limbs are so arranged
that the nerve of the one lies across the muscles of the other,

muscular contraction of the latter induces contraction of the

     * The muscular current is investigated at great length, historically and
experimentally, in the second and third chapters of section iii. of Du Bois

Reymond's Untersuchungm.

   t The fourth chapter of section iii., in the first part of vol. ii. of the Un-

tersuchungen, treats "Of the influence of Contraction on the Muscular Cur

rent. "

   PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.  329

former. He concluded therefore, along with Becquerel, that

during muscular contraction there is an evolution of electri

city. But the galvanometer, even when a pile of contracting

limbs is included in the circuit, gives no decided indication of

a current. Matteucci, indeed, has latterly denied the evolu

tion of electricity during muscular contraction, and is inclined

to attribute the secondary contraction to another cause. Du

Bois Eeymoud concludes from his investigations, that during

contraction the ordinary muscular current is much diminished,

if indeed it does not altogether disappear.

   The contraction produced by a single act of excitement of

a striped muscle is momentary. Any change, therefore, of its

ordinary electric condition during such a contraction is too

brief to be satisfactorily indicated by the needle. But if a

muscle be included in the circuit of the galvanometer, and
                   is
                           it is

                                                   ;

                                                          is
                                                                                 is if,
as soon as the deflected needle comes to rest under the influ

ence of the ordinary muscular current, the muscle be put into

a  state of continuous contraction, or tetanus, by means of

strychnine, or an interrupted electric current, the needle will

pass backwards beyond zero, and oscillate unsteadily on the

negative side till the muscular contractility exhausted. That

this negative deflection  not the result of any influence

exerted by the current employed to tetanise the muscles,

shown by the fact that occurs even when precautions are

taken to prevent such an influence and also by its occurrence

when the tetanus   produced by strychnine, and other non

electric means.

   If, again, an arrangement be made so as to enable the gal

vanometer circuit to be closed as soon only as the tetanus has

commenced, the needle will be found, during the contraction,

only to approach zero more or less, instead of passing to the

negative side, indicating therefore diminution of the ordinary
                          a
muscular current.
                                                                  is
   That this diminution in the ordinary muscular current

330  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

not due to an increased resistance to conduction in the muscle

from its contracted condition is proved by placing the two
corresponding muscles of the same animal, one before the
other, in the same galvanometer circuit, but reversed so that

their currents are opposed to one another, and then tetanising
one of them, for when this is done the current of the other

acquires the ascendant.
      The negative deflection in the first form of the experiment

is due, therefore, neither to invasion of the galvanometer
circuit by the exciting current, nor to a change in the direction
of the ordinary current, nor to increased resistance to conduc

tion. It is the result of the counter-current produced at the

platinum electrodes of the galvanometer during the passage of
the ordinary muscular current ; and this counter-current de

flects the needle negatively as soon as the ordinary muscular
current begins to lose its influence on it through the annihil

ating effect of the tetanus. The negative deflection is also in
proportion to the intensity of the ordinary current, and is,
moreover, increased by the negative effect of the parelectro-
nomic layer, which, according to Du Bois Eeymond, is not
affected by the act of contraction.

     The diminution or cessation of the. ordinary muscular cur
rent has been employed by Du Bois Eeymond to explain
certain curious experiments which he has latterly made. The
general muscular current of the frog sets, as has been stated,

from the toes to the head of the animal. Now, if one of the

legs of a frog be paralysed by cutting the sciatic plexus, the
feet being then placed in the two conducting vessels for the
electrodes of the galvanometer, and the animal tetanised with
strychnine, it is evident that the ordinary general current will
be diminished in the tetanised limb. Under these circum

stances, the galvanometer indicates not only an increase of the
upward current in the paralysed limb, but a downward current
in the tetanised one. On the human subject a corresponding

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.  331

experiment may be made. The forefinger of each hand being
dipped into the saline solutions along with the electrodes of

the galvanometer, no deflection occurs. But if all the muscles

of one arm be strongly and continuously contracted, a current
is indicated as passing from the finger to the shoulder in the
contracted arm, and in the opposite direction in the relaxed

one. It is evident that this current is the result of the dimi

nution of the ordinary general muscular current in the con
tracted arm, and the substitution for it of the closed circuit

of the ordinary current of the opposite arm*

     The Electric Properties of Nerve. --The resemblance between

many actions of the nervous system and certain electric phe
nomena has frequently impressed physiologists ; but investi
gations of this subject have been so generally mixed up with
that of the electricity of muscle, as to lead to no precise
result. Matteucci had failed in obtaining any indication of
electric currents in nerves ; but, nevertheless, the singular

parallelism between the two powers could not be overlooked ;
and Faraday has pointed out the importance of such considera
tions in his statements regarding electro-nervous action and

reaction. More recently, Du Bois Eeymond has admitted
that electricity and the nervous force are at least equivalents.
He was the first to derive electric currents from the nerves,

and has procured many most remarkable results from his

researches on the subject.

     The Electric Condition of a Nerve in the Intervals of Func
tional Activity. --By employing a very delicate galvanometer,
Du Bois Eeymond has detected the electric current in nerve,
and has determined its laws. They are similar to those of

the muscular current, having the same relation to the longi
tudinal and transverse sections ; except that as the nerve
presents no natural transverse section, the relative conditions

      * The general muscular current and the frog-current are treated of in the
first chapter of section iii. of the Uniersuchungen.

332            PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

of the longitudinal and transverse sections cannot be detected
Ifbefore the nervous cord has been cut across.
                                                         a transverse

section is in contact with one electrode, and the outer surface

of the nerve with the other, the current passes through the

galvanometer wire from the latter to the former. The current

has the same relative direction whether the transverse section

belong to the peripheral or central extremity of the nerve ;

and, consequently, when a segment of nerve is doubled in the

middle, the current passes from the loop to both sections.

The currents derived from the natural longitudinal section --
that the outer surface of the segment of nerve -- are simi
       is is,                                   a
                                                      a
lar to those derived from the outer aspect of muscle and
                                                             ;

there          reason for believing that  if    the small size of the

transverse section did not present an obstacle, also would
                                                  it

be found to be in the same condition of electric tension as a

corresponding surface in muscle.a

    It remarkable and important fact that no difference
       is
           a

exists in the laws of the electric current in the two classes of

cerebro-spinal nerves. The motor and sensory nerves, the

dorsal and ventral roots of the spinal nerves, and the nerves

of special sense, all present the same electric conditions. It

also remarkable that the spinal marrow and brain afford
is
the same results as the nervous cords. The former has its
         it
natural and artificial longitudinal surfaces in positive electric
                  a
condition, and its transverse in negative. In brain the
                                   a            a
                                            aa            a

entire surface covered by the pia mater, whatever complication

of form or direction may assume, being morphologically a
                     is it
longitudinal surface,       electrically positive in relation to

artificial sections of the organ.

     Du Bois Eeymond has discovered very remarkable con

dition of nerve produced by the passage of        aa     continuous
                               portion of it. If         continuous
electric current througha
                           a
current be passed along portion of separated segment of

nerve, alters the ordinary electromotor condition of the

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.  333

nerve in such a manner as to increase the force of the ordinary
current at that extremity of the segment where they correspond
in direction, and to diminish the ordinary current at the other
extremity where they are opposed. That a new condition of
electric tension is induced by the exciting currents along the
entire segment is proved by the galvanometer, which indicates
a current in the direction of the exciting current between
points equally distant from the middle of the outer surface of
the segment, where no galvanometric indications of the ordi

nary current can be derived.
      From the resemblance which this peculiar condition of a

nerve bears to the change which Faraday supposes to take
place in a wire along which a current is induced by a neigh
bouring current, Du Bois Eeymond adopts the term applied

by the former to the induced change, and denominates the
new condition of the nerve the electrotonic state.

    In the electrotonic state the ordinary electromotor elements

are evidently polarised, so as to have all their positive and
negative poles turned in opposite directions. Du Bois Eey
mond conceives that the change may be explained by assuming
that the ordinary electromotor elements consist each of two
dipolar molecules, with their positive poles in contact, and
that in the electrotonic condition one of the dipolar molecules
of each electromotor element turns on itself from 90° to 100°.*

     The Electric Condition of a Nerve during Functional Ac
tivity. --As Du Bois Eeymond was the first to detect the
ordinary electric current in nerves, so we owe to him the only
information we possess regarding the electric condition of a
nerve during functional activity. The question to be deter
mined is the electric condition of a motor nerve while it is
engaged in transmitting to a muscle the stimulus which

     * The greater part of the first division of vol. ii. of the Untersuchungcn
is occupied with the subject of the nerve-current. The statement of the laws
of the nerve-current will be found at pp. 262, 263.

334           PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

induces contraction, and of a sensory nerve while it is convey
ing to the sensorium the impression produced at its peripheral
extremity. In this investigation it was necessary to produce
in the nerve that state of continuous activity which is required
for overcoming the inertia of the needle. Such a condition

may he procured by mechanical or chemical agents, or by the

transmission of interrupted electric currents.

    A segment of a nerve having been placed so that its longi

tudinal and one of its transverse sections are in connection

a
                                      a

                                          is
                                                                   aa a
                                                                      a
                                                                if,
with the electrodes of the galvanometer,                                 after the needle

has come to rest at the angle of deflection produced by the

nerve-current, the other end of the nerve be burned or crushed,

the needle will return towards zero few degrees.

    If the extremity of the nerve of rheoscopic leg be con

nected with the galvanometer in similar manner, and the

leg itself be confined in one limb of glass syphon, into which
  boiling solution of salt passed from the opposite limb, the

needle will indicate similar negative variation.

    A frog having been fastened down, its sciatic nerve laid

bare, cut across at the lower end, and turned up from the

thigh, so as to have its longitudinal and transverse sections

applied to the electrodes, the needle will exhibit the usual
Ifpositive deflection.
                        the animal be now tetanised by strych

nine, the needle will return towards zero, and continue to

oscillate, approaching zero during each spasm, and receding

from in the intervals of muscular action --that while the
     it                                                                  a is,
                                                                               it
                     is
                          is a

                                     it
                                          it
nerves are not engaged in conveying their stimulus of muscular

contraction.

     From these experiments      appears, that when motor or

sensory nerve in state of functional activity, its ordinary

electric condition  altered, as               no longer affords the same

galvanometric indications, the current derived from being

diminished.

     Electricity passed through nerve excites that condition
                             a

         PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.                              335

-which in a motor cord induces muscular contraction ; and in

a sensory, common or special, sensation. In order, therefore,

to determine the nature of the change which occurs during
the functional phase of a nerve, Du Bois Reymond had recourse

to electric excitement.

    It has already been stated that a nerve is thrown into what

has been called the electrotonic condition as long as a con

tinuous electric current passes through a portion of it. Now,

as muscular contraction is induced at the closing and opening

of the circuit, and at the movements of variation in the density

of the exciting current, and as sensation also occurs most
vividly under similar conditions, it was necessary to examine

the electrotonic state, as produced by variable or intermitting

currents. For, as a variable or alternating electrotonic state

promised the greatest resemblance to a state of continuous

functional activity, its investigation might be expected to

throw some light on the change which takes place in the
ordinary electric condition of a nerve when it is thrown into

action.

Du Bois Eeymond found that the galvanometer as distinctly

indicated positive and negative variations in the currents which

passed through when these currents were derived from theit a

              it,
                          a
                                                                      aa
                                                                       if,
extremities of segment of nerve which was in an intermit

ting, as when was in continuous, electrotonic state. When,

however, the interruptions of the exciting primary current

become very frequent, the negative variation of the derived

currents becomes more marked, and even the positive varia

tion, diminishes. It appeared probable, therefore, that by pro

ducing the electrotonic state of the nerve by rapidly alternat

ing currents, the negative condition already indicated might

be increased. It was consequently found that                                after the

needle had come to rest in the deflection by the ordinary

nerve-current from either end of the segment, rapid series of

alternating currents be transmitted through portion of the

336  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

cord from an induction-coil (in which each primary current
induces an opposite in the other wire), the needle returns to

zero.

     These experiments appear to prove that when a nerve is
completely excited or tetanised by electricity, its usual electro
motor power is diminished or in abeyance ; and as a similar
loss of electromotor power also accompanies intense func
tional excitement from ordinary agents, Du Bois Eeymond
conceives this negative electric condition to be in some man
ner related to the motor or sensory functional power of the

nerve*
     To what is the Polarisation of the Nerve, when in a state

of Functional Activity, due ?--A nerve is thrown by a current

of electricity into an electric condition apparently similar to
that in which it is during excitation by its normal stimuli.

Is its natural action due, therefore, to electricity ? Is its

natural electrotonic condition similar to its so-called artificial

condition ? Is it induced by an electric current ? Du Bois

Reymond's opinions on this subject are guardedly expressed.!

He holds the so-called nervous principle and electricity to be

similar or alike. A nerve in action is in an induced electro-

tonic state ; and exhibits a consequent amount of negative

variation of its ordinary electric current. The source of the
inducing current is not stated ; but its direction may be con

ceived as resulting, during its influence, from the direction
and extent of the rotation which occurs in one or the other of

the two dipolar molecules, of which the presumed ordinary
peripolar electromotor elements consist, and on which the

ordinary current of the nerve depends. The induced current

    * Chap. vii. of the second division of vol. ii. of the Untersuchungen.

   t See p. xv. of the preface of the Untersuchungen, in which Du Bois

Reymond states that the electricity in muscle and nerve will probably ulti

mately prove to be not the mere consequence of their organic processes and

actions, but the actual source of their activity.

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.  337

 will be more or less directly centrifugal or centripetal as
 long as the inducing current or power rotates the peripheral
 or the central dipolar molecule in each pair of double elec
 tromotor elements in the series, round an arc of from 90° to

  180°.

       The Electric Relations of Centrifugal and Centripetal

Nerves are identical.. --It would appear to be an important

 result of Du Bois Reymoud's electro-physiological researches
 that motor and sensory nerves exhibit no difference in their
 electrical relations. The electrotonic condition can be in

duced in either direction. It may consequently be inferred

 that a motor nerve is capable of conveying its mere influence
 in either direction, but effectively only when it terminates in
a muscle. On the other hand, a sensory nerve is capable of
conveying its impression both ways, but with effect only

when it reaches a sentient centre. In so far as the investiga

tion has been carried by employing electricity as the exciting
agent, Du Bois Beymond draws the following conclusion
from his experiments : " that in both kinds of nervous fibres
the innervation advances in both directions with equal
facility."*

     The Law of the Excitation of Nerves by the Electrical Cur
rent.--When a uniform current is transmitted through the
nerve of the prepared limb of a frog, the leg contracts only at
the closing and opening of the circuit. In order to keep up
the contraction, or to produce a tetanic condition of the mus

cles, the current must be variable or intermittent. The action
of a muscle is not, therefore, equivalent to the strength of the
the electric current which may be transmitted along its
nerve, but to the variations in it. The law is thus expressed

by Du Bois Eeymond :-- " It is not the absolute value of the

density of the current in a motor nerve which corresponds to
the contraction of the muscle ; but the variation in this value

                                 * UnUrsudmngen, vol. ii. p. 590.

                                                                             Z

338  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

from one moment to another, the excitation being greater the

greater and quicker the variations in a given time." * This

law is also illustrated by the so-called secondary contractions,

which are produced by bringing the nerve of the prepared
frog's limb into contact with a muscle during its contraction.

If the nerve is laid upon a muscle which is in a tetanic condi

tion, however produced, the muscles of the limb become
tetanised also. This secondary tetanus is the result of that

alternating negative variation which the ordinary muscular

   current undergoes during continued contraction.

     The nerves of sensation, like those of motion, are more

particularly affected at the closing and opening of the circuit*
and by variations in the current ; but they would also appear

to be capable of excitement by a constant current.f
     The organised being may be considered electrically as pre

senting a system of electrical currents, excited by arrangements

in the system of its fluids, textures, and organs ; the two systems

representing each other. The electric disturbances and currents

in the Microcosm are represented by similar but grander phe
nomena in the Macrocosm. These phenomena coincide in

both cases with the disposition of component parts, and rank

   with other forms of material force alternately as causes and

effects. But the organised being                    is,  moreover, subordinated

   to those indwelling psychical powers and impulses by which

it enjoys its prescribed freedom.
  t
     The Successive Opinions which lutve been entertained regard
                the Electric Organ. --Walsh concluded that
ing the Action  of

   the electricity of the Torpedo entirely due to the batteriesis i.is
                                                                     p. by
                                                                       a

                                                                                         ;
that their upper and under surfaces are capable, from state

   of electric equilibrium, of being              instantly thrown,  a mere

        * Untersuchungen, vol. p. 258.                     it       Ibid. 283.
                                                               is
          In the report, as originally printed,
   apparatus in certain fishes then given                        t
   as that related in the preceding paper,       a  description of the special electrical
   duce it. -- Eds.
                                               ;  hut, as  substantially the same

                                  it                not considered necessary to repro

                                      is

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.                        339

energy, into a plus and minus state, like that of a charged

phial ; and that the current results from a conducting medium

between their opposite surfaces being supplied naturally or

artificially. Galvani originally, Becquerel subsequently, and

latterly Matteucci, conceived the batteries to be charged by

electricity developed in the brain, or central organ of the ap

paratus. Eudolphi considered the perpendicular prisms in

Torpedo as galvanic piles, the horizontal series in Gymnotus

as trough arrangements ; but without entering into the details

of the comparison. This view of their action does not explain

the intermittent and voluntary character of the electric dis

charges. For, as Valentin has stated, the organs in the fish

cannot be complete galvanic batteries, or they would be

continually charged, and a current would follow every suit

able closure of the circuit. Valentin proposes the follow

ing theory of the apparatus. He assumes the structure of the

battery to be a series of closed spaces ; the series enveloped in

thicker, the spaces separated by thinner aponeurotic laminae ;

each space being lined by a vascular epithelium, under

which the nervous plexuses lie, and filled with fluid. He

supposes that there results from the organic or nutritive

reactions of the circulating blood, the epithelium, and the

contained fluid of each space, a certain amount of electric

force, not, however, sufficient to overcome the insulating ob

stacle opposed to it in the aponeurotic walls ; all the spaces in

the battery are, therefore, so far only insulated electrical

spaces. As soon, however, as the will of the animal deter

mines a flow of nervous force into the spaces, the organic re

actions become so much exalted that the resolved electric

force overcomes the insulating power of the laminae, and a

current is produced ; the current being confined to the series

by their thicker aponeurotic walls.* This theory, although it

may account for a sudden increase of electricity in the organ,

* " Electricitat der Thiere " in Wagner's HandwSrterbucK  .

340              PRESENT STATE OF OEGANIC ELECTRICITY.

affords no explanation of its progressive character ; the current
is not accounted for.

      The theory which most satisfactorily combines the anato-
mico-physiological as well as the electrical phenomena of the
apparatus, is that lately propounded by Professor Pacini of

Florence.* Having discovered the important anatomical fact
that the nerves are distributed on one surface only of the
electrical elements of the battery, while the vessels and nu
cleated cellular texture occupy the other ; he finds in these
structural peculiarities the condition which is wanting in
Valentin's theory to explain the progression of the electricity.
Pacini refers the electrical batteries in the fish to two forms
of structure, and two modes of action ; of the first and

simplest form, the Torpedo affords the type, of the second and
more complicated, the Gymnotus. The batteries of Malap-
teruras are probably referable to the form in Torpedo, those

of Eaia certainly to that in Gymnotus. In the Torpedo, ac

cording to Pacini, the action is analogous to that which takes
place in a thermo-electric pile, inasmuch as he conceives it
to depend upoD a peculiar dynamical difference in the condi
tion of the two surfaces of each diaphragm of this binary type
of pile. The nerve-surface and the vasculo-cellular surface
of the electric diaphragm correspond to the bismuth and
copper, or bismuth and antimony elements of a thermo-elec
tric arrangement ; the nervous influence in the former taking
the place of the heat applied in the latter. There is here

assumed, what on other grounds is highly probable, that the
electrical and nervous forces are correlative ; and here it
must be admitted that in Torpedo, as pointed out by John
Hunter,t the bulk of the nerves in relation to the batteries is

much greater than in Gymnotus, which exemplifies Pacini's
second or ternary type of animal battery. When the Torpedo,

* Sulla strultura intima delV organo elettrico del gymnoto, e di altri pesci

tleUrici, 1852.  t Phil. Trans. 1773.

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.  341

therefore, wills a shock, or when, through the reflex action
of its electrical nervous centre, a shock is induced, a sudden

and copious nervous influx flows over the under surfaces of
its electric diaphragms, the upper surfaces are thrown into
an opposite electrical condition, and a current is the conse

quence.

     Pacini refers the structure of the battery in Gymnotus to a
ternary type. This type presents a negative element, which
consists of the fibrous layer on which the nerves ramify, to
gether with the fluid which it bounds below ; a positive ele
ment formed by the ridged vasculo-cellular layer, and the
conducting inter-diaphragmatic fluid. The vasculo-cellular
layer predominating in this ternary type over the nervous,
Pacini conceives the electricity to be evolved in the organic
actions of the vasculo-cellular layer under the influence of the

nerves. In other words, the will of the Gymnotus, or the re

flex action of its electrical nervous centre, directs an influence

along the nerves of its batteries over the fibro-nervous layer,
which suddenly exciting the nutritive or other organic actions
of the highly-developed vasculo-cellular layer, an electrical
disturbance is produced, with an opposite electrical condition
of the fibro-nervous and vasculo-cellular layers of the dia

phragms, and consequently a current through the series.
Pacini compares the wide-meshed fibrous layer, on the under
surface of which the nerves ramify, to the hollow cylinder of
porous clay, which in a Bunsen's or a Grove's galvanic ar

rangement separates the negative from the positive elements.
      The Batteries of the Fish are Independent Electromotor

Structures. --From the observations of Pacini, the terminations

of the nerves appear to form important elements in the
structure of the battery. On physiological grounds, however,
it appears probable that the peculiar texture of the electric
diaphragm is itself the seat of the electromotor power. As
an ultimate muscular fibre contracts, although entirely sepa

342          TRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

rated from the nerve, it remains to be determined whether

an appreciable electric discharge cannot be procured from an
Ifisolated element of the battery.
                                       so, it may be presumed

that the force which in the form of a contraction is elicited

from a muscular fibre by the influence of a motor nerve is re

placed by electric force when the same kind of nerve influences
an ultimate element of the electric structure. The laws of the

electromotor power of the electric organ cannot be determined

by experiments on its entire mass, or on rudely-separated

portions of it. The parts must be selected and removed on

precise anatomical and physiological principles ; and as Du

Bois Eeymond has stated his intention of investigating the

electrical organs of the fish, his previous researches show that

he will be guided in his proceedings by such considerations.

   If the battery is separated from its nervous centre by

section of the trunks of all the nerves which supply              ;         will

still afford discharges                                             it,
                                                                        it
       of                            the nerves are irritated and the

different portions of the organ, even the smallest, will do sois if
            if
likewise the nerves which are distributed to them be simi
                      is
larly treated. Matteucci, who has latterly admitted that theis a

nervous centre not the source of the electricity in the fish,of a if

states that  even minute fragment of the battery of the

Torpedo irritated by spiculum of glass, will yield dis
                                       it

                                                            a

charge*

     Peculiar Character the Electricity evolved from the Bat

teries the Fish. --The nature of the force evolved from the

batteries of the fish evinced by the shock and spark, by its

influence on the galvanometer, its magnetising and heating

powers, and its chemical action. The absolute quantity of

electricity which the animal can put in circulation at each

effort enormous. For, as can decompose water, and form
     is

         it
                                   it
magnets, must greatly exceed the quantity which can be
                                       is
produced by any ordinary electrical machine. It probable,

             * Traili des Phinomhus Electro-physiologiquts, etc.

PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.  343

therefore, that the animal has the power of continuing the
evolution for a sensible time ; so that its successive discharges
rather resemble those of a voltaic arrangement intermitting
in its action than those of a Leyden apparatus charged and

discharged many times in succession. At the same time the
power is one of low intensity, so that a dry skin wards it off,
though a moist one conducts it*

    It is remarkable that the electric fishes, although affected

like other animals by ordinary electric shocks, do not appear
to feel the electric discharges which are produced by them
selves, or by other individuals of the same species.

     The Condition of the Water which surrounds the Fish at the
moment of discharge of the Electric Organs. --At the moment of
a discharge in water, the currents between the opposite surfaces
of Torpedo, or between the ends of Gymnotus, instead of being
confined to a transverse area of limited extent, as when they
pass along a wire during a discharge in air, must be diffused
through a considerable extent of the water surrounding the
fish. The entire current force of the batteries must, in fact,

be subdivided into numerous subordinate axes of force arranged
in lines which come round the margins of Torpedo from back
to belly, and along the sides of Gymnotus from head to tail.
There is therefore at the moment of discharge an atmosphere
of power around the fish which, in the language employed by
Mr. Faraday in reference to the magnetic force, may be con
sidered as disposed in sphondyloids determined by the lines,
or rather shells, of force. " The magnet, with its surrounding
sphondyloid of power, may be considered as analogous in its
condition to a voltaic battery immersed in water or any other

electrolyte, or to a Gymnotus or Torpedo at the moment when
these creatures, at their own will, fill the surrounding fluid

with lines of electric force." It is evident, therefore, that

another fish, placed so that its antero-posterior axis is in the

                    * Faraday, Researches in Electricity, vol. i. p. 101.

344  PRESENT STATE OF ORGANIC ELECTRICITY.

direction of lines of inductive action in the water, will be

affected less powerfully  by the circulating electric  *pfoowuenrd  than
                          these lines. Mr. Faraday                  that
if it were placed across

while the Gymnotus can stun and kill fishes which are in

various positions in relation to its own body, it can, moreover,

by throwing itself so as to form a coil enclosing the fish, the

                                       so concentrate its
                              it
                                               it,

                                               if
latter representing a diameter across

currents of one side as to strike motionless as by lightning.

The Torpedo would also appear, from the observations of Dr.

Davy, instinctively to elevate or arrange its margin so as to

adjust the direction of its currents to the position of the object
through which wishes to pass them. " Thus," as Mr. Faraday

observes, " the very conducting power which the water has,
     it
         it
that which gives to the moistened skin of the fish or animal

to be struck, the extent of surface by which the fish and water

conducting the charge to  it  are in contact, all conduce to

favour and increase the shock upon the doomed animal."

             * Phil. Trans. 1839.

CONFERVA ON THE SKIN OF THE GOLD-FISH.  345

 XVIL-- ON THE CONFEKVA WHICH VEGETATES
          ON THE SKIN OF THE GOLD-FISH.*

Lady Brisbane having observed that a gold-fish which had
lived for some time in a glass vase presented a very unusual

appearance, as if a quantity of cotton were attached to its

dorsal fin and tail, requested Mr. Bryson to explain the cir
cumstance. That gentleman, having seen in the Mieroscopic
Journal a notice of the occurrence of vegetables parasitic on
living animals,t at once suspected that the cotton-like substance
was a plant. Lady Brisbane kindly allowed him to remove
the fish to Edinburgh for more accurate examination. Mr.
Bryson sent it to me, with the information that the peculiar
substance had made its appearance on the animal six weeks

before.

   IThe fish had been conveyed to town in a jug of water,

but had died on the journey, so that lost the opportunity
of observing the parasite during the life of the animal.
The water had begun to be tinged with blood and colouring
matter from incipient putrefaction. The results of the

Iexamination were not, therefore, so satisfactory as could

have wished.
     The parasite, when examined under water, presented to

the naked eye a continuous mass consisting of minute filaments
about three-quarters of an inch in length and extending all
along the dorsal and posterior edge of the tail-fins. The

      * Read before the Botanical Society of Edinburgh, January 13, 1842.

        t See Ann. and Mag. Not. Hist. vol. viii. p. 229, and p. 10.

346  CONFERVA ON THE SKIN OF THE GOLD-FISH.

filaments, although individually transparent, were so close to

one another and so numerous that the mass appeared opaque.

When the lateral portions of the mass were separated along

the median line, so as to display the free edges of the fins,

these edges were observed to be shrivelled, not, as appeared

to me, by a process of ulceration, but by an irregular inter

stitial absorption. This absorption was more evident along

the bounding edge of the parasitic mass, where it presented

the appearance of a furrow, in which the parasite grew with

more luxuriance than elsewhere.

     What was the exact state of the surface to which the
I Iparasite adhered am not prepared to say.
                                                 could detect no

substance corresponding to the false membrane described by

certain observers as constituting the soil on which vegetate

those parasites which infest the air-cells of birds ; neither

Icould satisfy myself that the substance which formed the

Iinfested surface was merely the mucous covering of the fish.
  am inclined, however, to lean to the latter opinion, for two

reasons--first, because the surface exhibited the pigment cells

Iof the skin ; and secondly, because detected solitary indivi

duals attached to the broad scales of the back.

Each plant consists of a jointed filament, in some indivi

duals single, in others dividing dichotomously towards the

attached extremity, but more frequently near the summit.

The filament tapers gradually from the base to the summit.

The former is very slightly dilated, rounded and closed at the

extremity, which is destitute of appendages. The latter varies

in different individuals under different circumstances, as will

be afterwards described. The articulations are elongated,
varying in length from ten to fifty times their breadth. Basal

articulations were met with, having a breadth of the 800th of

an inch ; acute or barren terminal articulations were about the

2000th of an inch. The length of the articulations increased

towards the summit, the basal being in general the shortest.

           CONFERVA ON THE SKIN OF THE GOLD-FISH  347

Each articulation was tubular, filled with a transparent fluid

in which floated granules. Their walls appeared to be homo

Igeneous ; could detect no double membrane, but at the spot

where the neighbouring articulations were connected, the

internal surface of each appeared to leave the external surface

of the filament so as to form by conjunction the flat dia

phragms. It would appear, then, that the walls of the cells

are originally double, but have coalesced in the progress of

growth. Towards the basal extremity of each articulation,

generally close upon but sometimes little removed, a
globular transparent vesicle. This vesicle varied in size,
           I

                        I, ; it,
                                              it

                                                                   aa

                                          I
                                                                                            is
                                                                                                            ;a
directly as the diameter of the articulation.  did not observe

this vesicle in any instance exhibiting nucleus or granular

contents.  occasionally observed floating free in the fluid

of the articulation but this might have been the effect of

violence. The fluid of certain of the articulations contained

granules about the 5000th or 6000th of an inch. Others again

contained no granular matter. These granules did not exhibit

molecular motion.   on more than one occasion, observed

steady onward motion of the granules and transparent vesicle

but this appeared to depend on unequal pressure and level of

the object-plates.

     From certain spots on the external surface of the articula

tions --spots which appeared to be arranged in no appreciable

order, there sprung bundles of very numerous, cylindrical,

elongated, and transparent filaments. These were so nume

rous and so convoluted and twisted as to defy every attempt

to disentangle them in fact, they occasionally obscured alto
I
       I

                               a
                                              ;

                                          I
gether the stems or primary filaments of the plant. They

arose from all the articulations except the basal and terminal,

at least never saw them springing from the latter, although

occasionally saw them arising from what took to be the

upper end of basal articulation. They were quite cylin

drical, as thick at their free as at their attached extremities,

348  CONFERVA ON THE SKIN OF THE GOLD-FISH.

and about L 0\ 0th of an inch in diameter. In structure theyI ita

were homogeneous, apparently gelatinous, and covered with aiIs,

fine membrane.                               I

     This parasite propagates by spores formed in its terminal
articulations, which are developed into spore-cases for that
purpose. Having observed terminal articulations in all stages

Iof development, may state the changes they undergo to be

the following :--

    1. A perfectly barren terminal articulation is elongated,

spear-shaped. transparent, without granules.

    2. A terminal articulation which is destined to become a

spore-case does not elongate so much, and is from the first,

or at least from an early period of its growth, full of granules,

which give it a grey colour. It is also elongated, fusiform, and

connected to the penultimate articulation by a narrow neck.

    3. It becomes more distinctly fusiform, retaining its other

characters.

    4 The granules appear here and there to increase in size,

or at least larger granules appear diffused through the mass.

These larger granules or vesicles are more or less transparent.
The articulation now becomes cylindrical, with rounded ex

tremities and a constricted neck.

     5. The articulation increasing in dimensions, but retaining
the same shape, contains a packed mass of perfectly trans
parent globules, which are uncompressed and without appre

ciable internal structure.

     6. The fertile articulation or spore-case bursts ; that
have seen with its contents hanging together from rup
ture in its walls.

     Proceeding to observe the changes which the spore itself

undergoes, detected lying here and there, among the attached
extremities of the primary filaments, groups of spores corre
sponding in numbers and characters to those which had

seen escaping from the spore-cases.

CONFERVA ON THE SKIN OF THE GOLD-FISH.                               349

The most careful examination revealed no nuclei or con

tents of any kind in these transparent vesicles, which in this

their perfect state were about ao^oth of an inch in diameter.
     The first step in the development was an opacity in the

spore, due to the development of granules similar to those

which have been so often mentioned.

2. The vessel elongates.

3. It appears double ; that
4                                                    two-celled.

                         is
                                                is,
Both cells elongate and acquire additional cells at the

extremity, which known to be the terminal extremity by

secondary filaments appearing on it.

    A sufficient number of examples could not be met with to

trace these changes with greater minuteness, so that certain

circumstances which was anxious to detect, and to which
I

                          a

                 II

                                                     a
                                                                                          is

                                                         I
shall allude immediately, escaped observation.

        may state that met with one example of the incipient

development of dichotomous primary filament. It occurred

at the point of attachment of fertile articulation, and might

therefore be considered, in some measure, as one mode in

which the primary filament or axis of the individual con

tinued, when its elongation would otherwise have been inter

rupted by the development of the formal terminal articulation

into spore-case.
a

       I
This incipient lateral filament appeared as conical projec
                                                     ;

                                                       I
                                                                   a
                                                                          it,
                                                                                      a
                                                                                               a
tion from the side of the upper extremity of the penultimate

articulation.     could not make out the existence of dia

phragm at the base of the little cone as however as well

as the penultimate articulation, was full of granular matter,

diaphragm might have existed, although did not observe it.

A clear vesicle, such as have formerly described, was situated
I
   I

               it

                     I
at the terminal extremity of the penultimate articulation but
                                                                  ;

whether belonged to the new articulation or to the old one,

could not determine.

have been unable to determine, in satisfactory manner
                                                     a

350  CONFERVA ON THE SKIN OF THE GOLD-FISH.

the exact nature of the clear vesicle which is found in each of

the articulations. It may be the nucleus of the original cell
of the articulation ; but if it be so, it must be considered as a

barren nucleus ; having increased in size proportional to its

cell, having lost the normal appearance of a nucleus, and
having never performed the function of one. May it not, with
greater propriety, be considered as some form of the endo-
chrome, a result of development of the granules of the articu

lation ? It exactly resembles the spores of the terminal articu

lations, which, as has been already stated, originate in the
granular endochrome of this articulation.

    IThe parasitic plant have now described resembles in many

respects those found by Hannover and Stilling on the newt
and frog. As in these, the filaments swarmed with infusorial
animalcules, Monads, Bursarice, etc. Some of these doubtless
lived among the filaments while the fish was still alive ; others,
again, as the Bursarice, must have taken up their residence

there after the commencement of putrefaction. Hannover, in
Muller's Archiv, 1842, page 73, has described the develop
ment of the conferva of the frog and newt, and has mentioned

the animal-like movements of the spores. Mr. Daniel Cooper

(Mieroscopic Journal) has frequently observed a cotton-like
conferva on the gills and fins of gold-fish. From a preserved

Ispecimen, an examination of which was afforded me by Pro

fessor Balfour, am inclined to believe in the existence of

more than one species of this genus of parasitic Algae.

     CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICULI.  351

XVIII.-- HISTORY OF A CASE IN WHICH A FLUID

      PERIODICALLY EJECTED FROM THE STOMACH

      CONTAINED VEGETABLE ORGANISMS (SAR-
' CINA VENTRICULI) OF AN UNDESCRIBED

      FORM.

Mr.  , aged 19, consulted me about a stomach-complaint,

under which he had been labouring for four months, and

which had more or less resisted every attempt made for its
removal He informed me that he considered it to be water-

brash ; that it attacked him on awakening in the morning

with a feeling of distension of the stomach ; that, without

any effort of vomiting, a quantity of fluid, varying in volume

from two-thirds to a whole wash-hand basinful, passed up

from his stomach ; that after this he was quite relieved, and
experienced no further inconvenience till the evening of the

same day, when, without decided distension, sounds as of a

fluid boiling or bubbling, and proceeding from the region of

his stomach, were perceptible to himself and to those around

him ; that he slept well enough, but was generally attacked

in the usual manner next morning. Such was my patient's

own account of his case.

   IOn examining more particularly into the symptoms,

could ascertain nothing positive. His tongue and pulse were

natural ; he had no headache, nausea, or thirst ; no tumour
could be detected in the epigastrium, and no pain on pressure

was complained of in the region of the stomach. The bowels

were moved daily, and the stools were normal. His appetite

352          CASE OF SARCINA. VENTRICULI.

was not affected, and the usual articles of diet appeared to

agree with him. He was thin, but had a good complexion,

and his flesh was firm. He stated that he had formerly been

very fat, but that this had left him before the accession of
                        I was informed that one of his
his stomach-complaint.

testicles had never descended beyond the groin.

     Of the various remedies which had been tried for his

relief, prussic acid appeared upon the whole to have

exercised the greatest influence over the disease, preventing
the attacks with considerable certainty for several days in

succession.

     Being unable to make up my mind as to the exact nature
of the case, but conceiving it probable that there might be

Iulceration or some other organic lesion of the stomach,

ordered croton-oil, frictions of the epigastric region, and the
Iinternal remedies to be discontinued.
                                        also requested that

the ejected fluid might be preserved for my inspection.

   INext day found that he had had an attack in the morn

ing as usual. No new symptoms presented themselves.

   IOn examining the ejected fluid, was struck with the

truth of what had been stated to me, that it smelt like fer

menting worts, with a faint acid odour. It appeared, after

having stood for a few hours, moderately transparent and of a

light brown colour. It had deposited in the bottom of the

basin a quantity of a ropy matter, of a granular appearance ;
and on the surface was a mass of froth like the head of a pot
of porter.

   IBy a consideration of all the circumstances of the case,

was now induced to conceive it possible that this and other

cases of similar stomach-complaints might depend on fermenta

tion of the contents of the organ. Such a fermentation might
I presumed, be primary -- that
it

                                                is, is,

                                                                                                                                                    ;
                                induced by the chemical con

stitution and relative conditions of the contents of the stomach

or might be secondary --that induced by circumstances in

CASE OF SAECINA VENTRICULI.                         353

the condition of the organ standing in the relations of primary

causes of the whole complaint. But, whatever might be

supposed to be the cause of the presumed fermentation, it ap

peared to me highly probable that, if it had really taken place,

it would be indicated by the remains of ferment-vegetables in

the ejected fluid.

   IIn the meantime, till had examined the fluid more
Iminutely, merely regulated my patient's diet. Animal food

was recommended ; vegetables and malt liquors were for

bidden, and a little brandy was ordered in water for drink.

   I now proceeded to examine the fluid ejected from the
I Istomach, and in proceeding to do so, expected, if found

any vegetable form at all, to see some of the globular or

moniliform algre, which it now appears pretty certain are

concomitants of certain of the fermentations. What was my

Iastonishment, then, to find, in the first drop examined, not
Ithe vegetables was led to expect, but numerous individuals

of a form, with allies of which the zoologist is familiar ! Drop

after drop exhibited the same specific form, with a precision

Iwhich convinced me that had now to deal with an organism

which, whether animal or vegetable, was closely allied to

certain genera of Baccillarle, and much more closely to the

genus Gonitjm among the VolvociN/E.

   IBefore proceed with the history of the case, or with the

description of the organism which characterised
:                                                   may be

                       a
                                               it,

                                              it
well to state that, in addition to few fragments and shreds

of undigested food, the ejected fluid presented the following
microscopic elements --

      1st. Fecula-cells, globular, ovoidal, and kidney-shaped,
with well-marked hila of attachment. Some of these cells

were transparent and empty, others were full of starch-granules,

and reacted powerfully with iodine. These cells were at first

presumed, and were afterwards proved by comparison, to be

nothing more than the remains of wheaten bread.

2
    A

354             CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICUL1.

     2d. Much larger, more irregular, flaccid, ruptured, or half-
emptied cells, full of granular matter, which reacted with
iodine, and were recognised as fecula-cells of the potato, as

they appear after boiling.

     M. Minute shreds of muscular fibre, cellular tissue, and

fat-cells, remains of the food.

     4th, Globules or globular masses, from 500 to 100 of an

inch in diameter, apparently oily, and presumed, although as to
this no incpiiries were instituted, to be some form of the chyme.

     5th. Occasionally, but rarely, portions of bran, consisting
of the perisperm of the wheat, recognisable by its internal
surface presenting irregular-sized, ovoidal or hexagonal shallow

foveae, with included fecula-cells.

   I6th. The organisms themselves, which at once recognised

as belonging to the vegetable kingdom, and considered either
as the cause of the symptoms in my patient's case, or at least

as very remarkable and important concomitants.

   I may state that these organisms could not have been

swallowed in the water used for drink, as the water employed

by the family for that purpose was regularly passed through a
Istone filter.
                used every precaution also in ascertaining that

they could not have been introduced along with any article of

diet, and in -satisfying myself that they were not portions of

any animal or vegetable tissue.

    I now recommended a return to the use of the prussic acid.

I ascertained that it exercised a decided influence over the
Idisease. After some time, however, became satisfied that it

acted more by enabling the stomach to retain its contents, than
by any direct influence in preventing the formation of the

fluid itself.

     The case proceeded for about a fortnight without any
change in the symptoms, the prussic acid being regularly taken

at bed-time, with the effect of putting off the attacks occa

sionally for a day or two at a time.

CASE OF SABCINA YENTKICULI.                                                                  355

    I now determined to give creosote, from a belief that it

would not only act, as the prussic acid had done, in preventing
the ejection of the fluid, but that it would also put a stop to

Iits formation. This conceived it would do, whether the

disease arose from a simple fermentation of the contents of

the stomach, or from the development of the organisms as a
primary cause.

    A drop of creosote was ordered every night at bed-time.

Supper was forbidden ; a very light dinner of animal food
was recommended, and breakfast indicated as the principal
meal. Cessation of his somewhat sedentary habits, active

country exercise on foot and horseback, and attention to the

bowels were insisted upon.

    A decided improvement now took place. The attacks,

instead of recurring almost every morning, trow took place
only on the fifth or sixth morning, and latterly at intervals of
eight or ten days. The fluid ejected also diminished in quan
tity, not exceeding six or eight ounces.

     The attacks again increased slightly in frequency, and in
quantity of fluid ejected, but this was at once controlled by a

gradual increase of the dose to four drops at bed-time. It

also appeared advisable to divide the dose, so as to take two
drops in the forenoon and three or four about one hour and
a half after dinner, so as to stop the formation of the fluid.
This effect my patient felt satisfied the creosote produced, as
the bubbling or crackling sensation in the stomach usually

ceased after taking his dose.
      The bowels were now acted upon rather smartly, so as to

promote the action downwards from the stomach.

   IAt the present date have it not in my power to state

that the complaint is removed, although the attacks are much
less frequent, and the quantity of fluid diminished. The
creosote, however, has a most decided control over and will,

  am inclined to believe, ultimately cure it. The disease,
I
                                                                                        it,

356  CASE OF SARCINA VENTKICULI.

indeed, may depend on the patient's time of life, and on the
peculiarity of his constitution, and may gradually disappear
even without medicine, as a consequence of increased cor

poreal vigour.

     The Structure, Mode of Reproduction, and Development of
Sarcina ventriculi, the Parasite detected in the ejected Fluid. --
The following description is drawn up from examination of
the ejected fluid for a period of nearly two months.

     In every instance the organisms presented themselves in

the form of square or slightly oblong plates. The thickness of
an individual was about one-eighth of the length of one of its
sides. Under a moderate power the sides and angles appeared
straight and well-defined ; but under deeper glasses, the

angles were rounded, and the sides sinuous ; appearances
which resulted from the uncompressed forms of the compo

nent cells in their particular directions. The flat surfaces
were divided into four secondary squares by two rectilinear
transparent spaces, which, passing from side to side, inter
sected one another in the centre like two cross garden-walks.

     Each of the four secondary squares was again divided by
similarly arranged, but more feebly developed spaces, into the
four ternary squares.

      The sixteen ternary squares thus constituted, when ex
amined with deeper powers, were seen to consist each of four
cells, which were not separated by transparent spaces, but
simply by dissepiments formed by the conjunction of the
walls of contiguous cells.

     These sixty-four cells of which the organism consisted did
not present in perfect individuals distinct nuclei ; although
in certain instances appearances presented themselves, having
relation to the reproduction of the organism, and falling to be
described in another part of the paper.

     The individual organisms were transparent and slightly

CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICULI.  357

yellow or brown. When carefully examined under favourable
circumstances the cell-walls appeared rigid, and could be

perceived passing from one flat surface to the other as dis
sepiments. These dissepiments, as well as the transparent
spaces, were from compression of contiguity rectilinear, and
all the angles right angles ; but the bounding cells bulged
somewhat irregularly on the edges of the organism, by reason
of the freedom from pressure.

      These circumstances gave the whole organism the appear
ance of a wool-pack, or of a soft bundle bound with cord,
crossing it four times at right angles and at equal distances.

   IFrom these very striking peculiarities of form, propose

for it the generic term SarciNa*
     Perfect individual Sarcin^e, of the species now under

consideration, vary from 800 to 1000 of an inch linear
along each of their sides. They are, as has been stated,
slightly brown or yellow under a high power --under moderate
glasses they appear dark, and are defined with difficulty on
account of the frequent reflections of the light by the dis
sepiments. Iodine does not react with them, as with starch,
but tinges them deep brown or yellow. They shrivel but

slightly in alcohol. In nitric acid, even after boiling for some

time, the sixteen ternary squares retain their relative
position, but diminished and shrivelled, appearing like minute
crystalline granules arranged in a square. So persistent are

Ithose arrangements of granules in boiling nitric acid, that

at one time suspected the existence of silicious loricje, or

Iisolated raphides, but as could not detect the same forms or

arrangements in the ashes of the evaporated and calcined fluid,

I do not now believe in their existence.

     This species of Sarcina, therefore, consists of sixteen four-
celled frustules, imbedded in a square tablet of a transparent

    * Sarcinula would have been more appropriate, had not Lamarck already
applied the term to a genus of polyps.

358             CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICULI.

texture, as in the Goniums. The four-celled frustules corre

spond to the cells or globules ; the tablet to the phycomater or
gelatinous matrix of certain of the UlvacEjE.

     The generation of Sarcina is fissiparous, each individual
dividing into four. This is proved by the following circum

stances :--
     1st. Specimens are frequently met with, which, instead of

I10 ternary squares and 64 ultimate cells, exhibit 64 ternary

squares and 256 ultimate cells. Such specimens are not,

conceive, to be considered as individuals, in as much as-- 1.

Their four component squares are very loosely connected to
gether. 2. One or two of the squares may be wanting, or
two or more of these may remain attached by the angles -- an

arrangement never represented in the primary squares them

selves.

     2d. Large specimens are occasionally met with, which
have most of the characters of composite individuals -- that
                                             I
of individuals about to divide into four. Such specimens dois,

not present 256, but only 64 ultimate cells, and these, ex

hibiting appearances not easily defined, nut apparently con

sisting of four opaque spots, as each cell were about to be
                              if
divided into four parts, or were in the act of producing withinit
itself four new cells.

     Such appearances rendered      difficult to say whether
certain specimens were simple individuals or composite --single

adults, or adults about to divide each into four young ones.

         therefore conclude that perfect individual Sarcina
I               a

consists of 64 ultimate cells, but that as soon as each of thesea

again divides into or produces four new cells, the individual

becomes composite, and may forthwith divide into four young
ones, each of these again to undergo the same quaternary

division.

     Such mode of generation will account for what fre
quently observed -- two, three, or four Sakcin^e attached by

CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICULI.  359

their angles only, as in the baccillarian genera. It also

Iexplains why could never detect more than four so united.
It may account for the circumstance that the Sarcin/E were

found grouped as it were in colonies, in certain portions of

the ropy fluid, some drops containing numbers of them, others

none at all.

      Such is the structure, mode of reproduction and of de
velopment, of this species of Sargina.

     In tracing these out, it cannot but have been observed how
beautiful is the symmetry of all the arrangements -- how the
parts of the individual are arranged in the scmare --how these
parts increase in numbers in a geometrical progression -- 1, 4,
1G, 64, 256, -- and lastly, how the species propagates according
to the same law, 4 in the first generation, 16 in the second,
64 in the third, 256 in the fourth, 1024 in the fifth, and so on

with a rapidity peculiar to such a series of numbers.
     Is Sarcina an animal or a vegetable? is it one of the

infusorial Polygastrica, or a minute Alga ? In order to give

a satisfactory answer to this question, it becomes necessary to

analyse the groups to wlrich Sarcina is most closely allied.

    Tutting out of view for the present the Fkagillarle, Dia-

tomaci^e, and other gonioid organisms, the animal or vegetable

Inature of which is yet a matter of doubt, shall proceed to

Midler's genus Gonium, the genus of all others to which
Sarcina has the greatest affinity.

     The genus Gonium consists of composite polygastric ani

malcules, each corpuscle of the whole animal having, according

to Ehrenberg, the organisation of a monad, oral appendages,

visceral sacs, etc. Ehrenberg does not euumerate eye-points
among the characters of the family to which the Goniums

belong (Volvocin^:). Without coming to any decision as to
whether the red points on certain species of Gonium be really

eye-points, or merely optical illusions ,* I may state at once,

.. * It may be well to state, that the red dots do not appear in all the species,

3G0 CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICULI.

Ithat am much inclined to believe that the genus Gonium, as

at present constituted, contains both animal and vegetable
species--the former characterised by oral appendages, volun

tary motions (eye-points the latter by their simple cellule-
globular formation. Gonium pectorale (Peetoralina hebrawa,

B. St.. Vincent), Gonium punctatum, contrary to the opinion
it
of Bory St. Vincent and others, appear to be true composite
      it
           isanimals.

                 isBut Ehrcnberg has here, as in many other instances, de
cided for the animal nature of organisms in which even his
                                                  in
                                                       ?),experienced eye could not detect the characters of the family.
            the case with Gonium hyalinum, Gonium glau-
                                                     aSuch
                                                                       a
CUM, and probably with Gonium tranquillum.
                                  I
These three species appear to consist merely of cells full
                                                                  if
of chlorophylle imbedded in the square plate which corre
                                                                                                                   a
sponds to the outer envelope of the NosTOCHiN^e.

    To such forms belongs Sarcina. It exhibits no mouths,

no oral appendages, no visceral sacs, and its cells, instead of
having the gelatinous appearance so familiar to the observer

of the animal infusorials, are clear, transparent as empty,

and have that consistency of wall characteristic of vegetable

structure.

     Believing Sarcina to be vegetable, may state, in refer

ence to its characters, that they are of kind which distinguish

   from all the gonioid plants at present known. It differs

most essentially from Pectoralina hebraica of Bory St.

Vincent, which, as we have already stated, appears to be

true animal. It makes the nearest approach to Gonium

hyalinum, which with Gonium glaucum and Gonium tran

quillum, even Ehrenberg himself seems inclined to hand

over to the botanists under the generic term Gonidium.
     The generic characters of Sarcina are to be found in the

and interesting to observe, that those species in which they have not been

iletccteil are the very species  which oral appendages apparently do not exist.

CASE OF SAECINA VENTBICULI.                             361

predominance of the constituent cells over the outer coat or

lorica, in each frustule being four-celled, and in the entire

freedom of these from all coloured contents. Of the specific

characters of a single species much cannot be said.

   I define the genus thus :--

Sarcina. Plants coriaceous, transparent, consisting of six

teen or sixty-four four-celled square frustules, arranged

     parallel to one another in a square transparent matrix.
Species 1. Sarcina ventriculi, mihi. Pl. xi. Fig. 13.

Frustules 16 ; colour light brown ; transparent matrix

veiy perceptible between the frustules, less so around

the edges ; size 800 to 1000 inch. Hab. the human

     stomach.

I IAs soon as had detected the Sarcina, called upon my

friend Dr. George Wilson for an analysis of the fluid.  The

following is bis report :--

" The liquid sent me for examination was thick and viscid ;

by standing, it deposited a large quantity of ropy matter mixed

with portions of undigested food, and when filtered through

paper it had a pale brownish-yellow colour, and was quite

transparent. It still contained much animal matter in

solution, becoming opaque and flocculent when boiled, and

giving a very copious precipitate with infusion of galls. It

also precipitated nitrate of silver densely, and when evaporated

to dryness, and exposed to a full red heat in a platina crucible,

left an ash containing much chloride of sodium. It had a pecu

liar acid odour, which all who have observed compare to that
of sour beer ; it reddened litmus powerfully, and effervesced

sharply with alkaline carbonates. These remarks, and all that

follow, apply without exception to portions of liquid ejected

at various intervals during a period of four weeks.
     " To determine the nature of the acid which existed so

abundantly in the ejected matter, a pint of the filtered liquid

was distilled in a retort, till nine-tenths of the whole had

:'»G2  CASE OF SARCINA VENTBICULL

passed over. The fluid in the receiver was colourless but
opalescent, and a flocculent matter was diffused through it ;
it reddened litmus strongly, and gave, with nitrate of silver, a
precipitate insoluble in nitric acid, and soluble in ammonia.

The latter reaction seemed to point to the acid as the hydro
chloric, but as the liquid had not the odour of that acid, and
the presence of flocculent matter showed that substances not
truly volatile had been passing over with the vapour- during

Idistillation, suspected that the precipitation of the silver

salt had resulted from chloride of sodium transferred from

the liquid in the retort by a similar process of mere mechani
cal convection. To decide this point, a portion of the distilled
fluid was evaporated to dryness in a porcelain capsule, and
strongly heated ; distilled water poured upon the residue
precipitated nitrate of silver, indicating the presence of some

fixed metallic chloride.* To remove this, the liquid was
filtered from the animal matter it held in suspension, and
slowly distilled a second time in a capacious retort. The pro
duct of this distillation was colourless and transparent, and
possessed a strong acid reaction, but gave not the slightest

haze with nitrate of silver. It retained the vomit-smell, and

along with it a faint acid odour, which was not perceptible to
myself, but which others recognised, and pronounced to be

that of vinegar.

     * Berzelius has particularly pointed out the difficulty of distilling viscid
animal fluids iu retorts, without the transference of non-volatile matters, which
appear to be projected upwards by the bursting of the bubbles of vapour pro
duced during tumultuous ebullition. -- TraiU dc Chimie, tome vii. p. 616,
Ed. 1832.

     Liebig has likewise called the attention of chemists to the remarkable power
which vapours possess, of carrying along with them portions of bodies (such
as nitre, boracic acid, chloride of sodium), which in their solid form resist dis
sipation by very high temperatures. When such bodies are dissolved in
water, its vapour, even when far below the boiling point, determines their
volatilisation along with itself. -- Organic Chemistry in its Application to Agri
culture, 1st Ed. p. 111.

CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICULI.  30:?

     " To ascertain the nature of the acid, six ounces of the
twice-distilled liquid were neutralised with lime-water and

evaporated to dryness. The lime-salt was then transferred to
a tube-retort, and distilled with sulphuric acid slightly diluted.

A colourless liquid collected in the receiver, which was at

once recognised, by its odour, to contain acetic acid. This
experiment was very carefully repeated with four portions of
liquid distilled from different specimens of the ejected matter ;
the result was the same with all, an acid liquid was procured,
which all who smelt it pronounced to be acetic acid.

   I" was the more careful in repeating these trials, that

Berzelius has shown that in the analysis of animal fluids,

other volatile odorous acids may readily be mistaken for
acetic acid. He particularly notices that lactic acid, accom

panied by a chloride, may seem to be an acetate, when
moistened with sulphuric acid ; the sharp smell of the
evolved hydrochloric acid passing for the peculiar odour of
the acetic. Even so expert a chemist as Leopold Gmelin has
been deceived in this way.* But the liquid from the stomach,
the lime-water, and the sulphuric acid, were all tested and
found to contain no chloride, nor did the distilled liquid con
tain any ; moreover, the evidence of the acid being the acetic,
did not depend on the perception for a moment of a faint and
fleeting odour, when the salt was moistened with sulphuric
acid ; a drachm of liquid was obtained by each distillation, so

that the odour could be perceived and identified by many

persons. In further trial of the acid, it was ascertained, that
when digested in the cold on recently-precipitated oxide of
lead, it formed a soluble salt, having a sugary taste, and pos
sessing an alkaline reaction. The acquirement of the latter
property, depending on the formation of a subsalt of lead, has
been shown by Liebig to be distinctive of acetic acid.t

                                         * Berzelius, Op. et. loc. citat.

                  t Graham's Elements of Chemistry, p. 785.

364  CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICULI.

      " The proportion of acetic acid in the twice-distilled fluid
 was ascertained in the usual way with the alkalimeter, by
 finding the quantity of carbonate of potass required to

neutralise it. It was found by several trials, that, on an

average, an ounce of the liquid neutralised 04 gr. of the
 carbonate ; a quart (32 oz.) would therefore neutralise 12-8
gr. which correspond to 9 gr. of the hydrated (crystallisable)
acetic acid HO + C< Hj Oi.

      " The liquid remaining in the retort after the first distilla
tion was now examined and found still to be strongly acid.

This property was traced in part to the presence of a small
portion of free hydrochloric acid. The large amount of
chloride of sodium which accompanied it made it difficult of

Idetection ; nor did succeed in ascertaining its proportion.
IBut satisfied myself that it occurred only in small quantity

by the following experiments :-- Some ounces of the filtered
liquid, along with a portion of red oxide of lead, were placed
in a flask provided with a bent tube dipping into a wine
glass, containing a very weak infusion of blue cabbage. The
flask was then heated till the liquid boiled, and, by the

quantity of vapour sent through the infusion, made the latter
boil also. The cabbage was reddened, but not perceptibly
weakened in tint ; whereas, had free hydrochloric acid been

present in any quantity, it must have been deprived of

hydrogen by the metallic oxide and chlorine evolved. When
the experiment was repeated, with the addition to the flask of

a little sulphuric acid, the infusion was bleached in a few

seconds. A similar experiment was made with the substitu

tion of a solution of hydro-sulphuret of ammonia for the
vegetable infusion, with a view to convert any evolved
chlorine into muriate of ammonia. The hydro-sulphuret was

then evaporated to dryness, and nitrate of silver added; a
precipitate of sulphuret and chloride of silver fell, but when

the latter was dissolved out by ammonia, its amount was

CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICULL                       365

found to be very small. Again, several ounces of the liquid
from the stomach were boiled for some time with peroxide of

manganese, and thereafter filtered. The filtered liquid was
then tested for chloride of manganese, with caustic potash ; a
very slight precipitate of protoxide fell. As the quantity of

Ihydrochloric acid discovered in this portion of the liquid was

too small to explain its marked acidity, made careful search
for another acid, and soon detected the presence of one which

was not volatile, but was destructible at high temperatures.

Different processes were adopted for the isolation and purifi

cation of this acid, which was separated with much difficulty
Ifrom the accompanying salts and animal matter.
                                                 state the

results very briefly.
     " The concentrated liquid from the retort, which now pos

sessed a dark-brown colour and was very viscid, was evapo

rated on the water-bath till it ceased to lose weight. It

formed a gummy mass, which remained moist after many
hours' exposure to a heat of 212°, and retained unimpaired
the power of reddening litmus strongly. The mass was boiled
with successive portions of alcohol of sp. gr. 0-880, so long as
the latter acquired an acid reaction ; the greater part of the
animal matter remained undissolved, but the alcohol was

coloured dark-brown. On evaporating this solution on the

water-bath, a viscid matter was left, strongly acid to litmus,
and possessing a saline taste occasioned by the chloride of
sodium dissolved along with it. The alcoholic extract was
boiled with successive portions of sulphuric ether, recently

rectified from carbonate of potass, and ascertained to be quite

neutral. By this treatment the extract lost its acidity, which
was transferred to the ether ; but it required a large quantity
of the latter to remove it entirely. The etherial solution was
of a pale-yellow colour, and had dissolved very little of the
salts or animal matter. When the ether was vaporised on

the water-bath, there remained a thick yellow liquid, redden

3G6        CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICUL1.

ing litmus strongly. It was kept for an hour at the tempera

ture of 212° without drying up ; it could be dissolved in

water and evaporated to its original consistence many times

in succession, without dissipation of the acid ; but when left

in its most concentrated state, it absorbed moisture from the

air, and became more liquid. When exposed in a capsule to
a naked flame, it darkened in colour, the animal matter

became charred, and the whole was destroyed.
     " Leopold Gmelin and others have shown that when hydro

chloric acid is accompanied by much animal matter, it may be

entangled in so as to escape dissipation by heat. It will
           ;
afterwards be shown that the acid was certainly not the
             it,

                                 :
hydrochloric but to obviate any objection which might be

founded on this fact, several portions of the liquid were treated
in the following way -- Some ounces were concentrated by

evaporation, and boiled on protoxide of lead, till the liquid

had lost all acid reaction. By this treatment the hydrochloric

acid should be converted into the insoluble chloride of lead.

The liquid was filtered, decomposed by  aa  current of sul
phuretted hydrogen, boiled, and filtered
                                          second time. It

yielded pale-yellow fluid markedly acid, which was sub
     it a
sequently treated with alcohol and ether by the method
already described. The liquid, after the second filtration, still

precipitated nitrate of silver, for contained all the chloride
                                    a

                                        it it
                                                it

                                                                                    a

                                                                 I
of sodium originally present. Although this was no real ob

jection to the distinction of the acid from the hydrochloric,

was anxious to satisfy myself that could be procured quite
free from chlorine. With this object in view, several ounces

of the liquid were boiled with portion of carefully prepared

and crystallised sulphate of silver, till ceased to give pre
cipitate with the nitrate of the same base. A current of

sulphuretted hydrogen was then passed through the liquid, to

precipitate the excess of sulphate necessarily added, after

which was boiled and filtered. It now contained free sul

                CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICULI.                         30*7

phuric acid, and sulphates instead of chlorides ; it was digested
on oxide of lead, until it lost all acid reaction, filtered from

the sulphate of lead and excess of oxide, and submitted again
to sulphuretted hydrogen, till a precipitate ceased to fall.

After being boiled and filtered anew, it was evaporated on
the water-bath, and digested with alcohol, which left the sul

phates undissolved. The product of these operations, which

contained no inorganic acid, reddened litmus strongly.
     " Other processes were followed which need not be detailed ;

none of them yielded an acid quite free from animal matter,

nor was it ever procured in large quantity ; but it presented
Ithe same properties in whatever way obtained.
                                                                    did not

ascertain the solubility of the acid in ether, till the inquiry

was nearly concluded, so that some of the experiments here

after mentioned were made with the alcoholic solution, which

was less pure.

     "The following properties were ascertained by repeated

trials to belong to this acid. It was soluble in ether, alcohol,

and water, was quite destitute of odour, and neither volatile

nor crystallisable. When the aqueous solution was digested

on phospbate of lime prepared from bones burned to white
ness, and freed from carbonate of lime by boiling with acetic

acid, and subsequent protracted washing with water, it dissolved

a large portion of the salt ; and it acted in the same way on

the recently-precipitated phosphate. It formed a soluble salt

with oxide of silver, which strikingly distinguishes it from
hydrochloric acid. It formed soluble salts likewise with oxide

of lead, with potass, soda, ammonia, baryta, and lime ; the

last soluble also in alcohol. It sustained a heat of 300° with

out decomposition, but when the temperature was much

elevated it inflamed along with the animal matter accompany

ing and suffered destruction. It was always found, however,
it,
                                                               it,
that the animal matter gave way before for after cbarring

had occurred to some extent, water still dissolved an acid

from the mass.

368  CASE OF SABCmA VENTRICULI.

     " On comparing these properties with the characters known
to distinguish the organic acids of animal origin, they will be

found to correspond closely with those of lactic acid, which

I Iaccordingly believe the acid have been describing to be.

Hydrated lactic acid (H 0 + C( H OJ is stated by Berzelius *
and Liebigt to constitute a colourless syrupy liquid, inodorous,

uncrystallisable, and not volatile, but decomposed at a tem

perature of 480°. It forms soluble salts with all the metallic

oxides, and dissolves a large quantity of phosphate of lime.

There is no single decisive test of its presence, nor does it

present any other marked characteristics which could be

sought for in the acid under examination. One method there

certainly is by which the identity of this acid with the lactic
could have been ascertained -- an ultimate analysis namely, and

discovery of its atomic weight ; but it was impossible to put

Ithis plan in practice. Nevertheless, think the conclusion

will be admitted that the acid was the lactic.
     " Three acids, then, were found in the liquid --hydrochloric,

acetic, and lactic ; the first was present in too small quantity

to be considered a morbid product. So far as the organic

acids are concerned, it is impossible to say whether their mere

presence constitutes a morbid sign, for the statements on

record concerning the normal acids of the stomach are very

incomplete and unsatisfactory.    Dr. Prout found in the

stomachs of the lower animals no acid but the hydrochloric.}

Leuretand Lassaigne found only the lactic ;§ Schultz only the

acetic ; || Chevreul found only the lactic in the gastric juice
of dog, and in the liquid brought up by an emetic from the

stomach of a healthy man fasting. If On the other hand,

Gmelin found in the lower animals muriatic and acetic acids,

     t J* TraiU de Chimie, tome vii. pp. 612-620.
     Turner's Chemistry, p. 996.  Phil. Trans. 1824, p. 45.

     § Recherches Physiologiqwx el Chimiques, p. 115.

II Midler's Physiology, p. 564.   H Lcuret et Lassaigne, op. cit. p. 117.

                  CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICULI.                    369

and in the horse butyric acid.* Dunglisdn, who analysed the

gastric juice from the stomach of St. Martin the Canadian,

whose case has been described         b^yI     Dr. Beaumont, found

muriatic and acetic acids.t Dumas, in his Lectures onit
                                              ;
Organic Chemistry, delivered last summer (1841), stated the

normal acids to be the muriatic and lacticf
     " To perplex the inquiry still further, Gmelin admitted no

distinction between lactic and acetic acid, or, at furthest, con

ceived the former to be the latter modified by adhering animal

matter. Now that we know these acids to be quite distinct in

composition and properties, the observations of Gmelin, other

wise so high an authority, lose much of their value.     it      will

    " In the preceding summary of conflicting opinions

be observed, that whilst some chemists contend for lactic and

others for acetic acid as the normal organic acid of the gastric

juice, no one professes to have found both acids in the same

liquid, as was the case with that which have analysed. One

of these acids, then, was abnormal, but which It would be
                                                     ?

useless attempting to decide this question by an appeal to the

relative worth of the authorities quoted         it      not improbable
                                                     is

that both acids are developed during healthy digestion. Lactic
acid so abundant, free or combined, in the milk, blood, urine,
is
       is
and other parts of the body, that its existence in the stomach

almost certain. As for acetic acid,            is    much rarer con
                                                  a

stituent of animal fluids, and there can be little doubt that

lactic acid has often been mistaken for it.

    " In the meanwhile however, till new researches are made

on this subject, neither acid can be considered by its mere

presence as morbid sign.            may, however, remark, that
tt                        I
lactic acid has already been found by Dr. Graves in the liquid
               a                  i.
* Rcchcrches sur la Digestion, vol. pp. 166-67 vol. ii. p. 317.;
   Miiller, op. and loc. cit.
   Manuscript notes kindly furnished by Mr. Norton.

                              2b

370  CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICULI.

vomited by a sufferer from dyspepsia ;* and MM. Boutron and

E. Fremy, in a paper on the lactic fermentation, observe, ' It

is known that the liquid^ contained in the stomach can, in
certain' conditions, present a strongly acid reaction. Now, the
analyses made on this subject demonstrate, iu these liquids,
the presence of lactic acid.'t

     " One thing, however, is certain, and it is the main truth
elicited by the analysis -- viz. that the quantity of acetic acid
found in this case was enormous. Although we have no
account of the proportion discovered in the gastric juice or
chyme, by those who maintain its presence there, it is certain
that the quantity must be very small. Prout overlooked the
presence of an organic acid altogether, and Gmelin, the great
advocate of its existence, found only traces of it. But the

quantity of liquid ejected at once by the patient often
amounted to more than two quarts, which would contain
eighteen grains of acetic acid ; and the amount is rather
understated, for some portions of the liquid were necessarily
lost in the distillations, which, moreover, were never pushed

to dryness.

   I" am not aware of any case on record corresponding to
Ithis ; but forbear at present forming any opinion as to

whether this remarkable development of acetic acid, and the
occurrence of the curious organisms described by Mr. Goodsir,

were mutually dependent or merely coincident.
      " The liquid otherwise was not particularly examined as to

its salts or animal matter."

      Those who know the doubt which at present exists as to
the acids which are found in the stomach in health and

     * Transactions of the Association of Fellows and Licentiates of the College
of Physicians in Ireland, 1804, vol. iv. Quoted in Tiedemann and Gmelin,

vol. i. p. 167.

   t Annates de Chimie el de Physique, 3me seric, tom. xii. 1841.

          CASE OF SARCINA VENTRICULI.   371

disease, will perceive the value of the foregoing analysis.

Other questions arising out of the consideration of the case,

as well as its future progress, will be taken up and recorded

in future communications on healthy and morbid digestion
I-- subjects with which Dr. Wilson and
                                        are at present

engaged.

372  ULCERATION OF PKYER'S PATCHES

    XIX.--ON A DISEASED CONDITION OF THE
                     INTESTINAL GLANDS.*

Without entering upon the question, as to whether the
subject of the present paper constitutes a distinct species of
disease, or be merely a form of the ordinary continued fever --

Ia question which am quite satisfied will never be answered

so long as each pathologist confines the inquiry to the fever
of his own district, without connecting with it tha consider
ation of those forms of fever which occur in every separate

Idistrict of a country or continent -- shall proceed at once to
Idescribe a lesion which observed some time ago in a disease
Iwhich was led to consider as typhus or continued fever.

      On opening the abdomen of individuals who had died of
this fever, we could always recognise the diseased condition
of the internal surface of the gut by the elongated bluish
purple spots on its peritoneal surface, corresponding to the
glands of Peyer on the internal surface ; and this we could
do, even in those cases in which, from other circumstances,
the vascularity of the parts had disappeared after death.

      On laying the gut open, the patches of Peyer's glands ex
hibited, according to the standing of the case, the various

Iappearances which shall now describe.

      But before proceeding to detail the phases through which

the patches pass, from the first appearance of the disease till

Ithe establishment of the typhous ulcer, or of perforation,

      * Read before the Med.-Chir. Soc, February 1842, and printed in the
London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, April 1842.

IN CONTINUED FEVER  373

may remark, in regard to the condition of the mucous mem
brane in the neighbourhood of the patches, that it did not in
every case exhibit unequivocal traces of inflammatory action.

It might be highly congested, or it might be perfectly blood

Iless in cases of well-developed disease of these patches.
Icannot say that have often observed the mucous membrane

pulpy or softened. The villi and follicles of Lieberkuhn have

always appeared to me to be healthy. The vascularity, when
it did occur, was met with principally in the neighbourhood
of the glandular patches, and resembled in all respects that
described and figured by Dr. Bright in his report on the form
of fever lesion now before us.

     The commencement of the disease is first announced by

the smaller patches becoming slightly elevated, so as to be

hemispherical or conical, and by the more extended groups
assuming a table-like appearance, with perpendicular edges,

as if a flat plate had been placed on the mucous surface. The

colour varies, according to the case, from bright carmine red

to dark purple or black, continuous or in patches. In the

more vascular specimens, the colour is a yellowish grey, con
trasting with the dead white or greyish- white of the intestinal
surface. More closely examined the surfaces of the patches
exhibit, as usual, the follicles of Lieberkuhn and villi, diflering
in no respect from those on a healthy surface, and arranged
around the vesicles of the patch in the usual manner. An
examination of this kind must be made under water, and

when conducted in this manner the vesicles of the patch may
be seen by floating aside the membranous border and circle of
villi which surround each of them. The vesicles themselves

may thus be seen to be much distended with a yellowish
matter -- a distension which is now perceived to be the imme
diate cause of the elevation of the patch.

      In the second stage of the disease, the patches still con
tinue to rise above the surrounding surface, and to exhibit the

374  ULCERATION OF PEYER'S PATCHES

changes formerly described, in a more characteristic manner.
As the elevation increases, a change begins to take place on

the elevated surface. This change may be partial--that is to
say, it may take place sooner on some parts of the patch than
on others ; but generally it extends over the whole surface, and

is bounded by a line situated from a 10th to a 16th of an
inch from the edge of the patch. The change itself consists
in the surface beginning to alter in colour, becoming dirty-

yellow or grey, and assuming a peculiar undulating or con
torted surface, like a bit of leather seared with a hot iron.
The villi have now in a great measure disappeared, but the
orifices, or rather the circular folds or pits, in which are

situated the vesicles, are still visible. At last the confines of

the changed portion of the patch are rendered evident by a

groove apparently produced by ulceration, which, appearing
here and there on these confines, at last extends all round,

and indicates some change about to take place in the whole
arrangement of the parts.

    In the third stage, the groove just described makes its way
into the tissues ; and as it does so, the healthy but elevated

mucous membrane on its external edge gradually everts

itself, as if by the upward pressure of the matter beneath it.

"While this is going on, the edges and surface of the altered
portion become more rugged, and their former character
somewhat obscured. The altered portion, which now assumes
very much the appearance of a slough tinged with intestinal

matters, becomes more and more detached from the surface

to which it adheres. When the mass is gently raised under
water, it may be observed that its attached surface sends

processes down into the cellular membrane beneath ; and if
these processes be carefully drawn out, they will be found to

correspond each with one of the original vesicles of the patch.
When detached in this manner, they leave on the surface to

which they adhered, dimples, or rather pits, which may be

                   IN CONTINUED FEVER.                   375

recognised as being the cellulo-vascular sheaths of the patch-

vesicles.

Occasionally the free surface of the altered portion comes

away first, in the form of flocculent laminae, and the deep pro

cesses continue to be attached for some time in the cellulo-

vascular capsules, like little nodules or pellets of a rounded

or pyriform shapa

The altered portion, even immediately before detachment,

may still present on its surface traces of its original structure.

The orifices of the follicles in which the vesicles are situated

are visible here and there on the surface, and the membrane

retains sufficient consistence to bind the mass together.

    Fourth stage. --When the sloughy mass has separated, the

surface of what may now be called an ulcer appears flocculent ;

but, when examined under water with a couple of needles, a

number of foveae, the remains of the cellulo-vascular capsules,

may be observed on it. In some of these, the little pellets

of deposit may still remain attached, appearing like mustard-

seeds scattered over the surface. The edges of these ulcers

are thick and everted, and exhibit the natural structure of

the mucous membrane. In some ulcers the eversion of the

edges proceeds so far as to throw the mucous surface of the

edge completely over, so as to apply it to the surrounding

mucous membrane.

Fifth stage. --The ulcer may now heal, or proceed to per
Iforation of the gut. In the former case, granulations,
                                                         pre

sume, appear, and the reaction of these cellular elements

carries on the contraction and cicatrisation so well displayed

in some of the preparations on the table. In the present

form of ulcer, as in others affecting the mucous coat of the
bowels, it is some time before villi again make their appear

Iance on the cicatrised surface ; but these changes have not

watched or observed. When the ulceration proceeds towards

perforation, it is generally one spot of the patch which is

376                   ULCERATION OF PEYER's PATCHES

more particularly affected, the rest of the ulcer retaining its

former granulating or flocculent appearance. At this stage

of the process lymph begins to be deposited on the external

surface of the gut ; and if the patient survives the perfora

tion eight or ten hours, the lymph rounds off the edges of the
hole, and gives it that punched-out appearance so frequently

observed. The omentum may adhere opposite the incipient
perforation, and after contraction has concluded, it appears

as if it had been forced from without into the hole, an

appearance resulting from the contracting agency of the

granulations.

Having now described the changes which the patches
Iundergo in this form of disease,
                                   have to point out the

peculiar matter upon the presence of which these changes

appear to depend. The grey matter which fills the vesicles

Ior the spaces which they occupy, find to consist of that

universal element of every primitive tissue, healthy or

diseased--nucleated cells. These cells are from 2000 to 4000

of an inch in diameter. They do not in general exhibit a

nucleus in the sense in which that term is generally applied ;
that the individual cells do not present in their interior
     is,
                            a
smaller cells holding certain relations to them. These cavities

appear to contain number of granules, four, five, or six, as
far as could be reckoned. Whether these in the aggregate

are to be considered as nucleus proceeding towards thea
formation of number of young cells, or whether the appear
     is
                   a
ance to be considered as analogous to that irregular form

of nucleus and cell-contents characteristic of certain forms of

tubercle, do not know. This matter, of whatever nature
     I                                    it

                                              ;

                                                      it

                                                              is
                                                                        it
may be, appears first in the vesicles of the patches, and then

spreads out on all sides, after the manner of other purely

cellular structures, till the whole patch, before    thrown

off, appears to be principally formed of  the surface of the

mass, however, as has been stated, and certain parts of its

                IN CONTINUED FEVER.  377

interior, consisting of the somewhat altered mucous and sub

mucous tissue.

      The morbid changes which the glandulae aggregatae of the

ileum undergo during continued fever, appear, from the
Iobservations
                have just detailed, to be of the following
nature --viz. the development of cells within the constituent

vesicles of the patches to such an extent as at last to burst

them, or cause their solution ; the continued increase in the

number of the cells, proceeding from as many centres as there

are vesicles in the patch ; the conglomeration of the whole

into one mass above the submucous and under the mucous

membrane ; the distension of the latter, and the necessary
ulceration and sloughing of the mass arising from this circum

stance.

     The whole mass, as detached from the gut, is not there
fore to be considered as a slough ; that portion only which
consists of the upper halves of the vesicles and of the mucous

membrane being dead ; the greater part, consisting of the
cellular mass, being merely detached from the submucous
tissue, consists of those nucleated cells, which, at first con
fined within their generative vesicles, had at last vegetated
so much as to break their natural bounds, and become one
mass of cells, constantly increasing in numbers, except below,
where the separate centres from which they originally pro
ceeded are indicated by the processes and little pellets which
are situated in the remains of the vesicle-capsules.

   IIt will have been observed that have not employed the
Iterm " inflammation " in the course of the description have
Ijust given. Whether the changes have described originate
Iin inflammatory action or not, of this am certain, that the

ulceration and pseudo-sloughing is an immediate effect of the

distension from the submucous vegetating mass, and would

occur whether the latter were produced by inflammation or

not.

378 ULCERATION OF PEYER'S PATCHES IN CONTINUED FEVER.

    In regard to the history of this department of the morbid

Ianatomy of fever, may state that Dr. Bright has given very

beautiful representations of the sloughs and ulcere in his
Reports of Medical Gases. Louis and Chomel have referred
to the appearance of the matter which distends the glands,
and compared the process to the tuberculous. Schbnlein, in
his General Pathology, has made a general allusion to the de
posit, and to the changes which occur in the patches* Gruby,

Iin a work on the Microscopic Character of Morbid Products, t

was the first, as far as can learn, who figured and described
the cells of which the deposit consists. Finally, RokitanskyJ
has generalised the subject, and considered the matter de
posited as peculiar to typhus fever, and referable to the same
category as cancer, tubercle, etc.

     My own observations have been made without reference
to any hypothesis as to the pathology of fever.

     * Schonlein, Allgeineine und specielle Pathologic und Thcrapie, Zweiten
Thiele, 1839, p. 23.

   t Observationes Microscopies auctore Dav. Gruby, 1840, p. 44.

     + Kokitansky, Handbuch der Pallwlogischen Anatomie, band iii. p. 265.

PATHOLOGY OF KIDNEY AND LIVER.                                  379

XX.-- OBSERVATIONS ON THE STRUCTURE AND
           SOME OF THE PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES
           OF THE KIDNEY AND LIVER*

Researches into the structure of the healthy human kidney,
and into the changes which it undergoes in the granular

degeneration described by Dr. Bright, have led me to the
following conclusions :--

Without denying the existence of occasional blind extremi

ties of the tubuli uriniferi, the result probably of arrested
I Idevelopment, may state that have never seen the ducts
Iterminating in this way.
                           have observed a structure which

appears hitherto to have been overlooked by anatomists --

namely, a nbro-cellular framework, which, pervading every

part of the gland, and particularly its cortical portion, per

forms the same important part in the kidney which the cap

sule of Glisson does in the liver--forming a basis of support

to the delicate structure of the gland, conducting the blood

vessels through the organ, and forming small chambers in the

cortical portion, in each of which a single ultimate coil or
Iloop of the uriniferous ducts is lodged.
                                           believe that the

urine is formed at first within the so-called epithelium-cells

of the ducts ; and that these burst, dissolve, and throw out

their contents, and are succeeded by others which perform

the same functions. The urine of man has not been detected

Iby me within the cells which line the ducts, but have sub

mitted to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, within the last few

* Read before Medico-Chirurgical Society, Edinburgh, May 1842.

380            STRUCTURE AND PATHOLOGY

weeks, a Memoir,* in which it is proved that the urine, bile,

milk, as well as the other more important secretions in the

lower animals, are formed within the nucleated cells of the
Igland-ducts.
               believe, therefore, that the urine of man is

poured at first into the cavities of the nucleated cells of the
               I do not pretend to decide whether the
human kidney.

morbid changes in the kidneys, in the various stages of the

granular disease of Bright, originate in inflammation or simply

in congestion of the gland, but may remind the Society of

Ithose changes which, at a former meeting,-)- announced as

occurring in the vesicular glands of the intestine during

fever -- namely, the formation and progressive increase of

nucleated cells (probably aberrant forms of the epithelium

which lines the vesicles) within the vesicles of the patches,

and may now state that granular degeneration of the kidney

has a similar increase ; that it consists essentially of the

formation of nucleated cells within the uriniferous ducts ;

that these new cells were principally confined to the ultimate

loops of the ducts, but that, in advanced stages of the disease,

they may be formed even in the tubes of the pyramids of

Ferrein ; that when a single ultimate loop of the uriniferous

ducts was gorged, or distended with the increasing mass of

germinating cells, or when two or more neighbouring loops
were in this condition, the little mass constituted one of the

granulations characteristic of the milder forms of the disease ;
that when throughout the gland, or in certain portions of
               t
                                                                      it

                                                                                       it,
the germinating masses had so far distended the ducts and
loops as to cause their disappearance, and to induce absorp
tion of the walls of the little chambers of the fibro-cellular

capsule, and consequently of the uriniferous ducts, the whole
of the cortical portion of the gland, or that part of more

particularly affected, assumed the appearance presented in

* See the Memoir "On Secreting Structures, " No. XXV. of this volume.
                              See No. XIX. of this volume.

OF KIDNEY AND LIVER.                        381

Ifthe more advanced stages of the disease.  the patient sur

vive the stage last described, the kidney becomes partially or
wholly atrophied -- a change due to the contraction of fibrous

tissue, produced either from the cells which constitute the

disease or from cells resulting from effused fibrin. With the

exception of the primary engorgement of the capillary system,

and of the Malpighian corpuscles, and their subsequent dimi

Inution, have not observed any very marked change in the

vascular system of the kidney during granular degeneration

of the organ.

    In proceeding to describe certain parts of the healthy and

Imorbid structure of the human liver, may observe that very

little remains to be done in reference to this gland, since the

very admirable researches of Mr. Kiernan. In regard to two
parts of the structure, however, we are yet quite in the dark --

namely, the mode of termination of the hepatic ducts and the

connection between them and the nucleated cells of this

organ ; but have been able, after considerable difficulty, to

verify Mr. Kiernan's supposition that the hepatic ducts

terminate by a network within the lobules of the liver,

around the intra-lobular veins. But the most important

feature in my observations is the detection of the real con

nection between these ultimate ducts and the nucleated cells,

which are grouped in the form of acini on the sides of the

duct. Each acinus may consist, first, of a single cell, the

primary or germinal cell of the future acinus ; or, secondly,

of two or more cells enclosed in the primary cell, and pro

duced from its nucleus. The enclosed cells may be named

the secondary cells of the acinus ; and in the cavities of these,

between their nuclei and cell-walls, the bile and a few oil

like globules are contained, as has been already stated, in the

memoir above alluded to. The primary cell, with its included

group of cells, each full of bile, is appended to the side of the

remote ducts, and consequently does not communicate with

382            STRUCTURE AND PATHOLOGY

that duct --a diaphragm formed by a portion of the primary

cell-wall stretching across the pedicle. When the bile in the

group of included cells is fully elaborated, the diaphragm

dissolves or gives way, the cells burst, and the bile flows along

the ducts ; the acinus disappearing, and making room for a

neighbouring acinus, which lias in the meantime been advanc

ing in a similar manner. The whole parenchyma of the liver,
then, is in a constant state of change --of development,
maturity, and atrophy --this series of changes being directly
Iproportioned to the profuseness of the secretion of bile.
                                                            find

myself anticipated by Mr. Bowman in regard to one of the
morbid conditions of the human liver-- namely, the fatty liver ;
and have much pleasure in confirming that gentleman's obser

vations (Lancet, Jan. 1842), as to the fat" being deposited

within the nucleated cells of the organ, and to be considered,

in fact, as a redundancy of the oil-globules naturally existing

in these cells. As in the kidney, so in the liver, contractile

fibrous tissue may be developed, and produce partial or com

plete atrophy. Dr. Carswell had already indicated this as

existing in cirrhosis. The matter, of which the rounded

masses in cirrhosis consists, is not a new deposit, but merely

the natural tissue of the liver, altered by the pressure exerted

by their fibrous envelopes. These alterations consist in con

striction, more or less powerful, of the vessels and ducts

which pass out and in to the rounded mass, the necessary

difficulty with which the circulation is carried on, and the

bile advanced along the ducts ; and, latterly, in a change in

the constitution of the nucleated cells themselves, which,

instead of being distended with bile containing oil-like

globules, contain matter of a darker colour, and less oil.

The cells may at last contain matter perfectly black, and then

the rounded mass assumes the appearance of a melanotic

tubercle, the black cells in some instances becoming pyriform
Iand caudate.
               am inclined to believe that the forms of

OF KIDNEY AND LIVER.  383

cirrhosis and melanosis are due to the contractile tissue, as a

product of inflammatory action more or less acute. The
action of remedies, particularly of mercury, would appear to
corroborate this opinion. From the observations made on the

Imorbid anatomy of the human liver and kidney, conclude

that certain of the diseases of those organs are due to the
development of new cells and new matter within the ducts
and nucleated cells of the organs, in accordance with the
normal laws of cellular development --this cellular vegetation

at last destroying, more or less completely, the natural tissue
of the organ.

           APPENDIX TO PEECEDING PAPER

     [The following more detailed observations on the relation
of the secreting cells to the bile-ducts, and of the distribution
of the connective tissue in the liver, occur in a manuscript

essay, we believe unpublished, entitled "A General View of

the Healthy and Morbid Anatomy of the Liver." The obser
vations on the relations of the cells and ducts are especially
interesting in connection with the recent descriptions of
Hering (Schultze's Archiv, 1867) and others on this subject,
whilst the careful description of the distribution of the areolar
texture, shows how thoroughly Professor Goodsir recognised
the importance of this tissue in its relations to the pathology
of the organ. There is no date attached to the essay, but from
the appearance of the paper and ink it had evidently been

written many years ago. --Eds.]
    In the liver, as in every other gland, secretion is performed,

not by the vessels, but by the particles which form its paren

chyma. In glands generally these particles are packed in the

form of a layer on the internal surface of the fine membrane
(germinal or primary membrane) of the ducts, from their open

384  STRUCTURE AND PATHOLOGY

mouths to their blind or anastomosing extremities. In the

liver the arrangement is different, although in principle the

same. Tracing the structure of the ducts from the transverse

fissure up along the portal passages, where they accompany

the vena portae and hepatic artery on to the compressed spaces

between the lobules, and where they form a network, they

consist of a fine membrane, having vessels on its external,

compressed particles (epithelia) on its internal surface. At

the outer surface of the lobules, the fine membrane of these

ducts does not seem to enter the lobules ; only the portal

vessels, and the secreting particles, the latter being grouped

around the former, so as to leave passages continuous with

the plexus of ducts on the external surface of the lobule, con

verging, and at the same time communicating, with one

               a
                                         a

                                                                     If,
another from that surface to the centre of the lobule.                    then,

we suppose the portal vessels, which pass in at the outer part

of the lobule, the hepatic vein, which passes out at the base,

and the intermediate capillary plexus to be removed, we shall

have remaining in lobule only mass of flattened particles
so arranged as to exhibit two sets of passages --one occupied

by the vessels of the lobule, and communicating on the one

hand with the portal, and on the other with the hepatic vessels.

The other set of passages within the lobules are continuous

with the hepatic ducts, and are the ducts of the lobule itself.

The difference, then, between an extra and an intra-lobular duct

that the former possesses      fine membrane between its
is                         ;a
vessels and secreting particles the latter presents no such
            I
membrane, the particles being so arranged as to be in the

immediate neighbourhood of bloodvessels, and to leave free

intercellular passages outwards for their secretion.

     The lymphatics of the liver am inclined to believe, for
                           I

reasons which cannot enter upon at present, to take their

origin in the intercellular spaces of the lobule, to acquire

distinct walls in the compressed portal spaces between the

OF KIDNEY AND LIVER.  385

 lobules. They then pass, some along the portal passages to

 the transverse fissure, others up between the lobules to the

 sub-peritoneal areolar texture of the diaphragmatic surface of
 the gland. The ducts of the liver may therefore be considered
 as communicating directly with the lymphatic system.

      The areolar texture of the liver is of great pathological
 importance. There are two situations in which it can exist
 in this organ --the portal passages and those for the hepatic

veins. In the latter situation it is extremely limited in

 amount and very dense, connecting firmly the bases of all the
lobules to the sub-lobular veins, continuous, on the one hand,

around the trunk of the hepatic vein with the areolar texture
of the posterior region of the cavity of the abdomen ; on the
other, around the bases of the lobules with the areolar texture
of the portal canals. Lymph and pus do not appear to be de
posited in the areolar texture of the hepatic passages, for so

firmly are the lobules attached to the veins, that when the tex

ture of the organ is broken up by an abscess, the lobules
adhere, in the form of masses of parenchyma, to the branches
of the hepatic vein, the pus breaking up the texture in the
direction of the portal passages and interlobular spaces.

      The second and more important division of the areolar

texture occupies the interlobular spaces, is continuous along
these with the subserous areolar texture, and, passing along
the portal passages, is continuous with the areolar texture of

the gastro-hepatic omentum at the transverse fissure. In the

interlobular portion of this division of the areolar texture the
interlobular plexus of the portal veins and the hepatic ducts

are situated. In its continuation under the peritoneum the

branches of the hepatic artery for the serous membrane, as well

as the superior lymphatics of the liver, lie. In the portal pas

sages the areolar texture, or capsule of Glisson, contains the
trunks and branches of the vena portae, the hepatic artery, ducts,
nerves, and inferior lymphatics, also the vaginal branches of the

                                  - 2c

386 STRUCTURE AND PATHOLOGY OF KIDNEY AND LIVER.

vein, artery, and duct. This division of the areolar texture is
in certain respects the most important pathological element

of the organ. It is the seat of the more important inflamma

tions, of the effusions of pus and lymph, of chronic inflamma
tion, and of the fibrous lymph, producing cirrhosis and atrophy,
and probably of the heterologous formations, or cancers, which
attack the organ.

       ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL

                      OBSERVATIONS.*

     "Although it sluw not tlie agent, yet it sheiceth a rule and analogy in
nature, to say that the solid parts of animals are endued with attractive powers,
whereby, from contiguous fluids, they draw like to like ; and that glands have
peculiar powers attractive of peculiar juices." -- Berkeley.

     "Even herein consists the essential difference, tlie contradistinction, of an
organ from a machine ; that not only the characteristic shape is evolved from
the invisible central power, but the material mass itself is acquired by assimi
lation. The germinal power of Vie plant transmutes tlie fixed air and the ele
mentary base of water into grass or leaves ; and on these the organific principle
in the ox or the elephant exercises an alehemy still more stupendous. As the
unseen agency weaves its magic eddies, the foliage becomes indifferently the bone
and its marrow, tlie pulpy brain or the solid ivory. "--Coleridge.

     " The greater part of my share of these Anatomical and
Pathological Observations will be already, to a certain extent,
familiar to those who attended my lectures, in the theatre of
the Eoyal College of Surgeons, in summer 1842, and winter
1842-3.

     " The Memoir on the Secreting Structures is reprinted in
a modified form from the Transactions of the Royal Society

of Edinburgh for 1842, and that on the Intestinal Villi from
the Edinburgh Philosophical Journal of the same year.

Those on the Placenta and Lymphatic Glands were read in
the Eoyal Society of Edinburgh in 1843, but were not sub

     * The thirteen succeeding Memoirs were published by Macphail, Edinburgh,
1845, in an octavo volume, entitled Anatomical and Pathological Observations,
and were preceded by the accompanying preface. -- (Eds.)

388  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

mitted for publication. Abstracts of some of the others have

also appeared, from time to time, in the reports of various

Societies.
     " The observations on the healthy Structure and Economy

of Bone are, with the exception of those on the contents of

the corpuscles, an abstract of my lectures on this subject in
Ithe College of Surgeons in winter 1842-3.
                                                          have considered

this explanation necessary, in consequence of the resemblance
between certain parts of my description and those in the

admirable chapter on the same subject in Todd and Bowman's

Physiological Anatomy, drawn up from the observations of

Mr. Tomes.
     " My brother, Harry D. S. Goodsir, has added some of his

own zoological, anatomical, and pathological observations, as

confirmatory of the doctrines of Centres of Nutrition and of

Secr"etTioon.such(Noass.  XXVI.   XXXII.    XXXIII.)      the  theoretical

                          may be  inclined  to object to

views which run through and connect these anatomical details,

I would only say, that we shall be quite satisfied, on find

ing the latter correct, they will allow us to retain the former
'
                    a

                                   ;

                                        a
                                                                              '

                                                                         is
                                                                                      a
                                                                                      ;' if,
for future use feeling assured, that there                certain analogy,

constancy, and uniformity, in the phenomena or appearances

of nature, which are foundation for general rules and that

these are grammar for the understanding of nature, or that

series of effects in the visible world, whereby we are enabled

to foresee what will come to pass in the natural course of

things.' "


VoUI  Piatt IV

                     CENTRES OF NUTRITION.                                 389

XXI.-- CENTRES OP NUTEITION.-- (Plate IV.)

IBy centres of nutrition understand certain minute cellular

parts existing in the textures and organs. With many of these

centres anatomists have been for some time familiar,* but with

a few exceptions have looked upon them as embryonic struc

ftures-   I am inclined to believe in the general existence of

such centres, for a certain period at least, in all textures and

Iorgans, and to this wish to direct attention at present.

The phenomena presented by these centres incline me to

regard them as destined to draw from the capillary vessels, or

from other sources, the materials of nutrition, and to distri

bute them by development to each organ or texture after its

kind. In this way they are to be considered centres of

Igermination ; and have elsewhere named them germinal

spots-- adopting the latter term from the Embryologists.|

     The centre of nutrition with which we are most familiar,

is that from which the whole organism derives its origin --

the germinal spot of the ovum. Prom this all the other

centres are derived, either mediately or immediately ; and in
directions, numbers, and arrangements, which induce the con
figuration and structure of the being. As the entire organism

* The nuclei of the textures.

t Mr. Bowman, in his Paper on Muscle, Philosophical Transactions, 1840,
Part I. page 485. -- Cyelopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, art. "Muscle." --

Dr. Martin Barry, in the Philosophical Transactions, and most explicitly in his
t "Paper
            On  the Corpuscles  of the  Blood," 1841, Part I.   page 269,  paragraph 83.
        Trans.   Roy. Soc. Ed.                                 Structure,  and the Laws
of its Functions. "             1842.     " On the Secreting

390  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

is formed at first, not by simultaneous formation of its parts,
but by the successive development of these from one centre,
so the various parts arise each from its own centre, this being
the original source of all the centres with which the part is

ultimately supplied.

     From this it follows, not only that the entire organism, as

has been stated by the authors of the cellular theory, consists

of simple or developed cells, each having a peculiar inde

pendent vitality, but that there  in addition, division of
                                  is,
                                                       a

                                                               a
the whole into departments, each containing certain number

of simple or developed cells, all of which hold certain rela

tions to one central or capital cell, around which they are

grouped. It would appear that from this central cell all the

other cells of its department derive their origin. It the
mother of all those within its own territory. It has absorbed
                                  a
                                                       a
                                                                          is
materials of nourishment for them while in state of develop

ment, and has either passed them off after they have been

fully formed, or have arrived at stage of growth when they

can be developed by their own powers.
     Centres of nutrition are of two kinds -- those which are

peculiar to the textures, and those which belong to the

organs. The nutritive Centres of the textures are in general

permanent. Those of the organs are in most instances pecu

liar to their embryonic stage, and either disappear ultimately
or break up into the various centres of the textures of which

the organs are composed.                                          merely

    A nutritive centre, anatomically considered,
     a
               *

                                       is
                                                                               is

                                                                                                                                 a

                                                                                                            a
cell. the nucleus of which the permanent source of succes

sive broods of young cells, which from time to time fill the

cavity of their parent, and carrying with them the cell-wall

of the parent, pass off in certain directions, and under various

forms, according to the texture or organ of which their parent

forms part

* For the first consistent account of the development of cells from parent

CENTRES OF NUTRITION.  391

     There is one form in which nutritive centres are arranged,

both in healthy and morbid parts, which is frequently alluded
to in the following chapters, and which may be named a

germinal membrane* In a germinal membrane, the nutritive

or germinal centres are arranged at equal or variable distances,
and in certain directions, in the substance of a fine trans

parent membrane. A germinal membrane is occasionally

found to break up into portions of equal size, each of which
contains one of the germinal centres. From this it is per

ceived that a germinal membrane consists of cells, with their
cavities flattened, so that their walls form the membrane by
cohering at their edges, and their nuclei remain in its sub

stance as the germinal centres.
     Germinal membranes are only met with on the free

centre, and more especially of the appearance of new centres within the ori
ginal sphere, we are indebted to the researches of Dr. Martin Barry. What
ever may be said in opposition to Dr. Barry's views regarding the functions of
the blood-globules, and the structure of muscular fibre, he is yet entitled,

above all physiologists of the present day, to the merit of having kept steadily
before him in his researches the principle of the central origin of all organic

form.
     * The membranous tubes of glands on which the epithelium is situated

were described by Henle, Miiller's Archiv, 1839. Mr. Bowman (Phil. Trans.
1842) " On the Structure and Use of the Malpighian Bodies of the Kidney," etc.,
has applied to the membrane of these tubes the very appropriate name of

Basement Membrane. This membrane I consider to be a primary or germinal

membrane. The term, basement membrane, is good as involving no

hypothesis ; it is therefore a most appropriate descriptive term. I have always

considered the basement membrane, or elementary membrane of glands, as a
form of the primary cells of glands, and the source of the secondary or
secreting cells, and have therefore been in the habit of naming it primary, or
germinal membrane. Mr. Bowman considers it to be simple, or homogeneous.
This is true as far as it contains no bloodvessels, and as regards its external
or attached layer ; but as in its original condition it consists of cells, and when
perfect contains nuclei at equal or variable distances, I do not consider it ns
simply molecular. These nuclei, or germinal spots, may be certain of the
epithelial cells, which become mother-cells, between the two layers of the
membrane ; or cells belonging to the order of the nuclear fibre* of Valentin

and Henle.

392  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

surfaces of parts or organs. One surface of the membrane
is therefore attached, and is applied upon a layer of areolar
texture, intermixed with a more or less rich network of
capillary vessels. The other surface is free, and it is on it
only that the developed or secondary cells of its germinal

spots are attached. These secondary cells are at first con
tained between the two layers of the membrane, these layers
being the opposite walls of each of its component cells.

When fully developed, the secondary cells carry forward the
anterior layer, which is always the thinnest, leaving the
nuclei or germinal centres in the substance of the posterior
layer in close contact with the bloodvessels.

     Of the forces which exist in connection with centres of

nutrition, nothing very definite can yet be stated. When this
branch of inquiry shall have been opened up, we shall expect
to have a science of organic forces, bearing direct relatious to
anatomy, the science of organic forms.

ON THE INTESTINAL VILLI.  393

   XXII.-- THE STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS OF
          THE INTESTINAL VILLI.-- (Plate IV.)

Mr. Ckuikshank, in treating of the orifices of the Lacteals
and Lymphatics,* states that he and Dr. William Hunter
observed the openings by which the lacteals communicated
with the cavity of the gut in portions of the intestine of a

woman who died after eating a hearty supper. The two
preparations of the intestine on which these anatomists made
their observations, came into the possession of the College of
Surgeons in Edinburgh, as part of the collection of the late
Sir Charles Bell.

   I removed one of the villi from Mr. Cruikshank's prepara

tion, and had no difficulty in recognising what had been
described and figured by the original owner of the preparation.

IWith a low power the extremity of the villus appeared

bulbous and opaque. With a higher power observed that
this opacity was due to the existence, at the extremity of the
villus, of a number of vesicles of different sizes. The larger
vesicles were pretty uniform in size, and about twenty in
number. The smaller were of different sizes, and more
numerous, and appeared gradually to pass into the granular
texture of the attached extremity of the villus. No blood
vessels could be detected, but along the neck of the villus
distinct traces of two or more opaque lacteals were visible.
The vesicles and the lacteals, when viewed by transmitted
light, were of a light brown colour ; but when examined as
opaque objects, they stood out of a dead white appearance,

     * William Cruikshank, The Anatomy of the Absorbing Vessels of the Human
Body, 2d ed. 1790, page 56.

394  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

contrasting strongly with the semi-transparency of the

surrounding texture. Eepeated examinations of these pre
parations satisfied me that Dr. William Hunter and Mr.

Cruikshank were quite correct in describing and figuring
radiating lacteals within the villi, but that they were led into

error in describing those vessels as opening on the free surface

of the gut, partly by imperfect instruments and methods of

Iobservation, partly by the general prejudice of the period in
favour of absorbent orifices.    also satisfied myself of what

appeared highly probable from the commencement of the
observations, that the villi, when turgid with chyle, were

destitute of their ordinary epithelial covering* This circum

Istance could not avoid connecting with the fact of the

stomach throwing off its epithelia during the process of
Idigestion.
             determined, therefore, to investigate the process

of absorption of chyle in fresh subjects, as the facts exhibited

in Mr. Cruikshank's preparations indicated the probable

existence of complicated processes going on in villi during

digestion. The analogy of the vesicular bulbous extremity of

the villus, to the spongiole of the vegetable, forced itself upon

me, and the existence of milky chyle, within closed cells, led

me to anticipate an explanation of some of the phenomena

of digestion.       Three hours afterwards he was killed.

    A dog was fed.

The lacteals were turgid, and the gut was found to be full of

milky chyme, with an admixture of thin brownish fluid of a

bilious appearance. The milky matter was situated princi

pally towards the mucous membrane ; the brown fluid

occupied the cavity of the gut.

     The white matter consisted of a transparent fluid, with a

few oil-globules and numerous epithelia.

   ISome of the epithelia recognised as those which cover

the villi. They were pointed at their attached extremities,

     * This opinion was subsequently abandoned by the author. -- (Eds.)

ON THE INTESTINAL VILLI.  395

flat at the other. Many of them were single, others were
united in bundles, adhering principally by their flat or free

extremities, as if a fine membrane passed over and connected

the edges of their extreme surfaces. Occasionally these
epithelia presented a distinct nucleus ; but generally, and
whether single or in bundles, they exhibited in their interior
a group or mass of oil-like globules, which, when viewed as
opaque objects, had a peculiar semi-opaque or opalescent
appearance* Others of the epithelia, contained in the chyme,
were prismatic, single, or in columns. They were the lining
epithelia of the follicles of Lieberkuhn, and presented the
usual nuclei.

    The mucous membrane displayed the villi turgid, as if in

Ia state of erection, and as had anticipated, naked or destitute

of epithelia, except at their bases, where a few still adhered.
Each villus was covered by a very fine smooth membrane,
which, from its free bulbous extremity, passed on to its sides,
and became continuous with the germinal membrane of the
follicles of Lieberkuhn. These villi, when removed from the
 mucous membrane, and examined with a low power, were
 semi-transparent, except at their free or bulbous extremities,
 which appeared both by direct or transmitted light white and
 opaque. Under higher powers the summit of the villus,

 somewhat flattened, was observed to be crowded, immediately
 under the membrane before mentioned, with a number of per
 fectly spherical vesicles. These vesicles varied in size from
 1000 to less than 2000 of an inch. The matter in their
 interior had an opalescent milky appearance. Towards the
 body of the villus, on the edges of the vesicular mass, minute
 granular or oily particles were situated in great numbers, and
 gradually passed into the granular texture of the substance of
 the villus.

       * Is this appearance due to a partial absorption of chyle by these protec
  tive epithelia ?

396  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

     The trunks of two lacteals could be easily traced up the
centre of the villus, and as they approached the vesicular mass
they subdivided and looped. In no instance could one of
these lacteals be traced to any of the spherical vesicles, nor

could any direct communication between the structures be
detected* The bloodvessels and capillaries, with their
columns of tawny blood disks, could be seen passing in
radiating lines and in loops across the villus, immediately
under the fine membrane already mentioned. This membrane,
perceptible on the body and neck of the villus only by the

smooth surface it presented, was most distinctly traced at the
free extremity of the villus, as it passed from the surface
of one vesicle on to that of another.! The vesicles, pushing
the membrane forward, and grouped together in masses on its
attached surface, gave the extremity of the villus the appear
ance of a mulberry. When viewed on a dark ground as an
opaque object, the point directed to the light, a villus in
this condition is remarkably beautiful, the play of the light
on the surface of the highly-refractive semi-opaque and
opalescent vesicles giving them the appearance of a group of

pearls.

    In villi turgid with chyle, which have been kept for some

time in spirits, the contents of the vesicles are opaque, the

albumen having become coagulated.
     To understand the part which the vesicles of the villus

play in digestion,- it is necessary to be aware of certain of the
functions of the cell, with which physiologists are yet un
acquainted. Not only are these bodies the germs of all the
tissues, as determined by the labours of Schleiden and

Schwann, but are also the immediate agents of secretion. A

     * See Gulliver's translation of Gerbcr's General Anatomy, pp. 272 and 278.

   t Mr. Bowman, in the article "Mucous Membrane," Cydopwdia of Ana

tomy, does not admit this portion of the membrane. It certainly cannot be

detached as a separate membrane.

ON THE INTESTINAL VILLI.  397

primitive cell absorbs from the blood in the capillaries the
matters necessary to enable it to form, in one set of instances,

nerve, muscle, bone, if nutrition be its function ; milk, bile,
urine, in another set of instances, if secretion be the duty

assigned to it. The only difference between the two functions
being, that in the first, the cell dissolves and disappears
among the textures, after having performed its part ; in the
other, it dissolves, disappears, and throws out its contents
on a free surface. Now, it will be perceived, that before
a cell can perform its functions as a nutritive cell, or as a
secreting cell, it must have acted as an absorbing cell.
This absorption, too, must necessarily be of a peculiar and

specific nature. It is in virtue of it that the nutritive cell

selects and absorbs from the liquor sanguinis those parts
of the latter necessary for building up the peculiar texture

of which the cell is the germ. It is in virtue of this pecu

liar force that the secreting cell not only selects and
absorbs, but also in some instances elaborates, from the same

common material, the particular secretion of which it is
the immediate organ. And it is by the same force that
the cell becomes the immediate agent of absorption in certain

morbid processes.
     "Absorption,"* says Professor Miiller, " seems to depend

on an attraction, the nature of which is at present unknown,
but of which the very counterpart, as it were, takes place in
secretion ; the fluids altered by the secretkig action being im

pelled towards the free surface only of the secreting mem

branes, and then pressed onwards by the successive portions

of fluid secreted. In many organs, for instance in those in
vested with mucous membranes --absorption by the lymphatics

and secretion by the secreting organs, are going on at the

same time on the same surface." It appears, however, from

what is stated in the present chapter, and in the Trans. Roy.

                    * Miiller 's Physiology, page 30 -- Daly's Translation.

398  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

Soc. Ediii.* that Professor Miiller, and indeed all the physio
logists hitherto, have heen in error in supposing the forces of

secretion and absorption as of different and opposite tendencies

-- the one attractive, the other repulsive. They are both

attractive, absorption being but the first stage in the process
of secretion. Secretion, in fact, differs from absorption, not

physiologically, but morphologically.
     What has been stated in the present paper explains also

how, in the mucous membranes, " absorption by lymphatics

and secretion by secreting organs are going on at the same

time on the same surface." There is no physiological mystery

in this. It depends on a morphological circumstance. The

absorbing chyle-cells are on the attached surface of the ger
minal membrane -- the secreting epithelia are on its free sur
face ; the former are interstitial cells -- the latter peripheral ;
the former cast their contents into the substance of the
organism -- the latter into the surrounding medium.

     The primitive cell, then, is primarily an organ of specific
absorption, and secondarily of nutrition, growth, and secretion.

      As the chyme begins to pass along the small intestine, an
increased quantity of blood circulates in the capillaries of the

gut. In consequence of this increased flow of blood, or from

Isome other cause with which am not yet acquainted, the

internal surface of the gut throws off its epithelium, which is
intermixed with the chyme in the cavity of the gut. The
cast-off epithelium is of two kinds --that which covers the
villi, and which, from the duty it performs, may be named
protective epithelium, and that which lines the follicles, and
is endowed with secreting functions. The same action, then,
which, in removing the protective epithelia from the villi,
prepares the latter for their peculiar function of absorption,

throws out the secreting epithelia from the follicles, and thus

    * Trans. Royal Society, Edin. 1842, "On the Secreting Structure, and
 Laws of its Function." See also No. XXV. of this volume.

ON THE INTESTINAL VILLI.  399

conduces towards the performance of the function of these

follicles.

     The villi, being now turgid with blood, erected, and naked,
are covered or coated by the whitish-grey matter already
described. This matter consists of chyme, of cast-off epithelia
of the villi, and of the secreting epithelia of the follicles. The
function of the villi now commences. The minute vesicles
which are interspersed among the terminal loops of the lacteals
of the villus, increase in size by drawing materials from the
blood through the coats of the capillary vessels, which ramify
at this spot in great abundance. While this increase in their
capacity is in progress, the growing vesicles are continually
exerting their absorbing function, and draw into their cavities
that portion of the chyme in the gut necessary to supply

materials for the chyle. "When the vesicles respectively
attain in succession their specific size, they burst or dissolve,
their contents being cast into the texture of the villus, as in
the case of any other species of interstitial cell.

      The debris, and the contents of the dissolved chyle-cells,
 as well as the other matters which have already subserved
 the nutrition of the villus, pass into the looped network of
 lacteals, which, like other lymphatics, are continually em
 ployed in this peculiar function. As long as the cavity of

 the gut contains chyme, the vesicles of the terminal extremity

 of the villi continue to develope, to absorb chyle, and to
 burst, and their remains and contents to be removed along

 the lacteals.

      When the gut contains no more chyme, the flow of blood
 to the mucous membrane diminishes, the development of

 new vesicles ceases, the lacteals empty themselves, and the

 villi become flaccid.
     The function of the villi now ceases till they are again

 roused into action by another flow of chyme along the gut.
      During the intervals of absorption, it becomes necessary

400  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

 to protect the delicate villi from the matters contained in the
 bowel. They had thrown off their protective epithelium
 when required to perform their functions, just as the stomach
 had done to afford gastric juice, and the intestinal follicles to
supply their peculiar secretions. In the intervals of diges

 tion the epithelium is rapidly reproduced.

   IThe germinal membrane, which, as have stated, not

 only forms the outer membrane of the follicles, under the
epithelia, but also the underlying membrane of the villi,
 contains in its substance germinal centres of an oval form,
situated at pretty regular distances. From these the epithe
lium appears to be reproduced during the intervals of absorp
tion, as stated in the first chapter.

      During this process of development, the primary mem
brane appears to split into two laminae, the epithelia passing
out from its nuclei between thesa This would account for

the epithelia, particularly the prismatic and conical, adhering
by their free extremities.

      Such are the processes which would appear to take place
in the villi of the intestinal tube during digestion and absorp
tion. When considered in relation to the functions of digestion
and absorption of chyle, these processes are highly interesting.

      The labours of the chemist have now so far simplified the
theory of digestion, as to deprive the stomach of the vitalis

ing or organising powers so long ascribed to it.
     Every step in this chemico-physiological inquiry leads to

the conclusion, that the changes which the food undergoes
while in the cavity of the gut are entirely of a chemical

nature.

    If we continue, then, to apply the term digestion to that

series of processes by which the aliment is assimilated to the
matter of which the body is composed, we must divide the
series into two groups. The first group will include all those
changes which take place within the digestive tube, but ex

                 ON THE INTESTINAL VILLI.                401

terior to the organism. The second will include those which

present themselves after the alimentary matter is taken up

into the animal body, and becomes buried in its substance.

The first group of processes are mechanical and chemical in
their nature. They may be considered in a great measure as

peculiar to the animal, although even vegetables throw out

from their roots matter which, acting on some of the materials

of the surrounding soil. prepares these for absorption.

The second group of processes is common to animals and

vegetables.  In these, for the first time, are alimentary sub

stances taken into the tissues of the organism. In animals,

Ias in plants, as have already pointed out, these alimentary

substances are drawn by a peculiar force into the interior of

the cells, after escaping from which they pass on by the ab

sorbent system. The chemist has not yet informed us of the

change which the matter has undergone during its passage

from the cavity of the gut, or from the soil, into the afferent

lacteals and the sap-vessels ; but if in vegetables, as in

animals, this matter passes into the cavities of the cells of
the spongiole before it passes on to the sap-vessels, then it is

highly probable that the organising and vitalising part of the

function of digestion commences in the cells of the spongiole

and of the extremity of the villus.

The extremity of the fibril of the root of a plant elongates

by the cells added to its tissue by the germinating spongiole.

The spongiole    therefore, an active organ of growth as well
           it

                      is,
                               is
as of absorption. It to the fibril of the root, what have
                                           I
                                                II
denominated in the animal tissues the nutritive centre.

conceive     to be probable, therefore, although as to this

have made no observations, that absorption by, and elongation
of, the fibril of the root, vary inversely as one another. This

supposition founded on the assumption that the cells of the
             is

spongiole do not absorb by transmission, but by growth and

solution.

                                   2
                                       D

402       ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

     In the villi of the intestines of animals, my own obser

vations lead me to believe that absorption by growth and

solution is the process which actually takes place.

     The vesicular extremity, like the spongiole of the root-

fibril, is the primitive nutritive centre of the villus. The

villus originates in a cell. During the development of the

villus, this . spot or cell was employed only in procuring

materials for the growth of the organ. In the perfect animal

the formative function of the spot ceases ; its action becomes

periodical, active during digestion, at rest during the intervals

     that process. The same function performed, the same
ojF         is
                                is
        is  in action, and the same organ, the cell, provided
force

for absorption of alimentary matters in the embryo and in

the adult, in the plant and in the animal. The spongioles

of the root, the vesicles of the villus, the last layer of cells on

the internal membrane of the included yelk, or the cells

which cover the vasa lutea of the dependent yelk, and the

cells which cover the tufts of the placenta, are the parts of the

organism in which the alimentary matters first form part of
                                                     a

that organism, and undergo the first steps of the organising

process.

ABSORPTION AND ULCERATION.  403

   XXIII--ABSORPTION, ULCERATION, AND THE

 STEUCTUEES ENGAGED IN THESE PEOCESSES.

Evert organic cell, the most simple as well as the most

complicated, when a separate organism, or when a part of a
more highly organised being, existing as a mere magazine of
matter, or performing some of the more striking of the vital
functions, invariably exhibits a phenomenon which is ante
cedent to all others --absoiption from without of materials
for its own growth.

     The various kinds of cells in any organism differ from one
another in this respect, that they have the power, each after
its kind, of selecting and procuring from the circulating
medium, or from other sources, the sort of matter necessary
for their own growth : or they have the power of elaborating,
or of conducing to the chemical change of the matter which
is absorbed by them. In this respect, the component cells of
animals and vegetables resemble the various species of beings
of which they form parts : they have not only the power of
selecting food, but the various species out of the same kind
of food are formed of matter and of parts which are specifically
different.

    A most important circumstance in the history of cellular

phenomena is the duration of existence of a cell. Like the
various species of animals and vegetables, each species of cell
has its own average term of existence, each after its kind.
This average term is nevertheless contingent on the amount
of action which each species may, by peculiar circumstances

40-i ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

in the organism to which it belongs, be called on to perform.
This variableness in the average age of each species of cell, is
dependent on those circumstances which have been named
" nervous agency," " peculiarity of constitution," " irritability
of the parts," " morbid action," but may be studied independ
ently of these agencies. The variableness in the term of ex
istence of cells can no more be explained at present, than the
variety in the duration of the lives of species of animals and
vegetables : but the fact being known, its laws ascertained
will afford a clue to the explanation of many organic pheno

mena and processes.

    In the study of absorption, nutrition, and secretion,

attention has been directed to the vessels, as the active agents

in the performance of these processes. It is only a short

time since we have been willing to admit that the new
matter which is constantly replacing the old materials of the
frame, is selected and laid down, not by the ultimate vessels,

but by the non-vascular portions of the textures. It is only

now that we are beginning to know that secretion differs
from nutrition in its anatomical relations, and not in its
intimate nature. We still, however, retain in full force the
old belief in the active absorbent powers of the vessels, and
in the agency of the capillary and lymphatic vessels in re

moving parts and modelling the forms.

    It is not my intention to question entirely the active

agency of the veins and lymphatics in absorption and
ulceration, but merely to direct attention to the subject ; and
to point out, in some of the following chapters, a few organic
processes in which these actions appear to be functions in
dependent of the vessels, the latter to be passive agents, mere
ducts for conveying away the products of action.

    A rapidly-extending ulcerated surface appears as if the

textures were scooped out by a sharp instrument. The
textures are separated from the external medium by a thin

ABSORPTION AND ULCERATION.  405

film. This film is cellular in its constitution, and so far it is

analogous to the epidermis or epithelium. It is a peculiarly

endowed cellular layer, which takes up progressively the
place of the subjacent textures --these being prepared for
dissolution, either by the state of the system, the condition

of the part, or by some influence induced by the contiguity
of the new formation. Carrying out, therefore, the principles
at present regarded as regulating the reciprocal functions of
textures and vessels, the subjacent textures disappear in con
sequence of a disturbance of their own forces, consequent
upon the appearance of new forces residing in the cellular
layer. The disturbance and gradual annihilation of the
natural forces residing in the subjacent textures, is indicated
by the gradual disappearance of these. That new forces, not
formerly existing in the part, are developed, appears from the
formation of the cells of the cellular layer. As these appear

in rapid succession, and disappear as rapidly, the subjacent

textures also disappear, either by previous solution and
subsequent absorption by the properties and powers of the
former ; or under the peculiar circumstances of inflam
matory action by the more vigorous growth of the former,
monopolising the resources of the part, the latter dissolving
and disappearing by the usual channels of the returning
 circulation, more rapidly, but according to ordinary laws.

      From this view of the process, it appears that, so far from
consisting in a diminution of the formative powers of the

part, such a progressive ulceration is actually an increase of
 it. The apparent diminution is a consequence of the ex
 tremely limited duration of existence of the cells of the
 absorbent layer, which die as rapidly as they are formed, dis

 appearing after dissolution, partly as a discharge from the
 surface, but principally through the natural channels by which
 the debris of parts, which have already performed their allotted
 functions are taken up into the organism.

406  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

     When a portion of dead or dying bone is about to be
separated from the living, the process which occurs is essen
tially the same as that which has now been described. The
Haversian canals, which immediately bound the dead or dying
bone, are enlarged contemporaneously with the filling of their
cavities with a cellular growth. As this proceeds, contiguous

canals are thrown into one another. At last the dead or

dying bone is connected to the living by the cellular mass

alone. It is now loose, and has become so in consequence of

the cellular layer which surrounds it presenting a free surface
and throwing off pus.

    In this process the veins and absorbents act on the osseous

texture of the walls of the Haversian canals in no otherwise

than in the natural state of the part. They are mediate, not

immediate, instruments of absorption. It is the cells of the

newly-formed cellular mass, contained in the Haversian canals,
which are the immediate cause of the removal of the bone,
either by taking it up as nourishment, and substituting them
selves in its stead -- the bone being prepared for this absorp
tion in a manner analogous to that which occurs in the
digestion of food previously to absorption of it by the cells of
the gut ;* or by the active formation of the cells of the new
substance monopolising the resources of the part, and so in
ducing the disappearance of the osseous texture by the natural

channels of the returning circulation.
      The process by which a slough in the soft parts is separated

from the llving textures is similar to that which occurs in

bone.

     In this view of ulceration, there is substituted for the

hypothetical active or aggressive power of absorption ascribed
to the veins and the lymphatics, a power which is known

     * "Hence, the digestive process, instead of being confined to the stomach
and duodenum, is actually carried on without intermission, in all parts of a
living animal body." -- Prout's Bridgewatcr Treatise, page 534.

ABSORPTION AND ULCERATION.  407

to exist in the organic cell during the progress of its growth ;
and the ultimate removal of the matter from the scene of
action is ascribed, partly to the formation of discharge, partly
to the yet unexplained, but at the same time undoubted, and
in all probability passive, agency of the returning circulation.

408        ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

      XXIV.-- THE PEOCESS OF ULCEEATION IN
          AETICULAK CAETILAGES.-- (Plate IV.)

The question as to the vascularity of cartilages cannot now
excite much interest, when we know that all the textures are

in themselves destitute of hloodvessels, which are accessory
parts, carriers of nourishment, not active agents in its
deposition. We do not consider cartilage as a texture into
which no bloodvessels pass, but only as less vascular than

some of the others. In a large mass of cartilage, as in those

of the bulky mammals, or in the thick cartilages of the fcetal

skeleton, canals containing bloodvessels are found here and
there ; but in the thin articular cartilages of the adult human

subject few or no vessels can be detected.

    It is evident, therefore, that in the process of ulceration

in cartilage, it cannot be the usual bloodvessels of the part
which are the active agents.* Still less likely is it that
lymphatics, the existence of which has never been asserted in
this texture, are the absorbing instruments.

   If a thin section, at right angles, be made through the

articular cartilage of a joint, at any part where it is covered
by gelatinous membrane in scrofulous disease, or by false
membrane in simple inflammatory condition of the joint, and

if this section be examined, it will be found to present the

following appearances.

* See Mr. Aston Key's Paper in the London Mai. Chir. Trans- vol. xviii.

Tart  I.,  "On the Ulcerative Process in Joints."

ULCERATION IN ARTICULAR CARTILAGES.     409

On one edge of the section is the cartilage unaltered, with

its corpuscles natural in position and size. On the opposite

edge, is the gelatinous, or false memhrane, both consisting

essentially of nucleated particles, intermixed, especially in the

latter, with fibres and bloodvessels ; and, in the former, with

tubercular granular matter. In the immediate vicinity, and

on both sides of the irregular edge of the section of cartilage,
where it is connected to the membrane, certain remarkable

appearances are seen. These consist, on the side of the

cartilage, of a change in the shape and size of the cartilage-

corpuscles. Instead of being of their usual form, they are

larger, rounded, or oviform ; and, instead of two or three

nucleated cells in their interior, contain a mass of them. At

the very edge of the ulcerated cartilage, the cellular contents

of the enlarged cartilage-corpuscles communicate with the

diseased membrane by openings more or less extended.
Some of the ovoidal masses in the enlarged corpuscles may

be seen half-released from their cavities by the removal of the

cartilage ; and others of them may be observed in the sub

stance of the false membrane, close to the cartilage, where

they have been left by the entire removal of the cartilage

which originally surrounded them.    ,

If a portion of the false membrane be gradually torn off

the cartilage, the latter will appear rough and honey-combed.

Into each depression on its surface a nipple-like projection

of the false membrane penetrates. The cavities of the en

larged corpuscles of the cartilage open on the ulcerated

surface by orifices of a size proportional to the extent of

absorption of the walls of the corpuscle, and of the free

surface of the cartilage.

The texture of the cartilage does not exhibit, during the

progress of the ulceration, any trace of vascularity. The

false membrane is vascular, and loops of capillary vessels dip

into the substance of the nipple-like projections which fill the

410  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

depressions on the ulcerated surface of the cartilage ;* but,a
with the exception of the enlargement of the corpuscules, and
the peculiar development of their contents, no change hasit
                        it
occurred in it. A layer of nucleated particles always existsit

between the loops of capillaries and the ulcerated surface. is,
     The cartilage, where it is not covered by the false mem
                                            if
brane, is unchanged in structure. The membrane generally
adheres with some firmness to the ulcerating surface ; in other                    a
instances it is loosely applied to it ; but in all, the latter is

accurately moulded to the former.

     In scrofulous disease of the cancellated texture of the
heads of bones, or in cases where the joint only is affected,

but to the extent of total destruction of the cartilage over part
or the whole of its extent, the latter during the progress of

the ulceration, attacked from its attached surface. Nipple-
shaped processes of vascular cellular texture pass from the
bone into the attached surface of the cartilage, the latter
undergoing the change already described. The processes from
the two surfaces may thus meet half-way in the substance of

the cartilage, or they may pass from the attached, and project

through sound portion of the surface of the cartilage, like
little vascular nipples or granulations. The cartilage may
thus be riddled, or may be broken up into scales of varying
size and thickness, or may be undermined for greater or
less extent, or be thrown into the fluid of the cavity of the
joint in small detached portions, or may entirely disappear.

     On the principles already laid down, absorbents exist, as
we have reason to believe they do in the false membrane,

neither they nor the veins are to be considered as the active
or immediate agents in the absorption of the cartilage. They
certainly are not so in the absorption of the walls of the cor

     * The vascular loops described and figured by Mr. Liston are not vessels
in the cartilage, but the vessels described in the text. -- Liston. Land. Med.
Chir. Trans.

ULCERATION IN ARTICULAR CARTILAGES.  411

puscules, and this, as well as the analogy of similar processes,

Igives weight to the opinion to which have come, that they

are not the immediate instruments in the absorption of the
free surface. The cells of new formation appear to be the
immediate agents in this action. They absorb into their
substance the hyaline matter of the cartilage, the latter pro
bably not being removed at once from the spot, but merely
converted into soft cellular texture ; the process being one of
transformation rather than removal.

412  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

XXV.-- SECEETING STRUCTURES.-- (Plates IV. V.)

Malpighi was the first to announce that all secreting glands
are essentially composed of tubes, with blind extremities.*
Miiller, by his laborious researches, has brought this depart
ment of the anatomy of glands to its present comparatively
perfect condition^ Purkinje announced his hypothesis of the
secreting function of the nucleated epithelium of the gland-
ducts, but made no statement to show that he had verified it

by observation.}: Schwann suggested that the epithelium of
the mucous membranes might be the secreting organ of these
surfaces.^ Henle described minutely the epithelium-cells
which line the ducts of the principal glands and follicles, but
did not prove that these are the secreting organs. The same
anatomist has stated that the terminal extremities of certain

gland-ducts are closed vesicles, within which the secretion is
formed, and which contain nucleated cells. Henle has not,

therefore, verified the hypothesis of Purkinje, although he is
correct in stating that the terminal vesicles of certain gland-

ducts are closed.|| It will be shown, that the secretion is not

formed, as Henle has asserted, in the closed vesicles, but in

the nucleated cells themselves.

     The discrepant observation of Boehml and Krause** on
the glands of Peyer, were in some measure reconciled by

* Exercitatianex dc Strudura Viscerum, 1665.  t Isis, 1838.

t J. Miiller, De aland. Struct. Penit. 1830.

§ Froriep. Notiz. 1838.  || Midler's Ardiiv, 1838, 1839.
                                              ** Muller's Archir, 1837.
IF De Gland. Intestin. Struct. Penit. 1835.

Vol.lI  Plate V

        ' MiU. Ji


SECRETING STRUCTURES.                                     413

Henle, who referred them to the same class of structures as

the closed vesicular extremities of the ducts of compound
glands. Dr. Allen Thomson has observed, that the primitive

condition of the gastric and intestinal gland is a closed vesicle*

Wasmann described the structure of the gastric glands in the

pig ; and his description will be fully explained by the

following observations and views.f Hallman has given a
detailed account of the testicle of the ray,t which closely re

sembles that of the Sgualus cornubicus, as described in another

part of this chapter. None of the recent observations on the

development of the spermatozoa have proved that the

vesicles, in which they are formed, are the epithelium -cells
Iof the ducts of the testicle.
                                           am indebted to Dr. Allen

Thomson for directing my attention to a notice in Valentin's

Repertorium, 1841, of a Dissertation by Erdl,§ in which he

describes, in the kidney of that mollusc, cells, the nuclei of

which pass out by the duct of the gland. It does not appear,

however, that Erdl had discovered the uric acid within the

cell.ll

   If the membrane which lines the secreting portion of the

internal surface of the ink-bag of Loligo sagiltata (Lamark) be
carefully freed from adhering secretion by washing, it will be

found to consist almost entirely of nucleated cells, of a dark-
brown or black colour. These cells are spherical or ovoidal.
Their nuclei consist of cells, grouped together in a mass. Be

tween these composite nuclei, and the walls of their containing
cells, is a fluid of a dark-brown colour. This fluid resembles,

in every respect, the secretion of the ink-bag itself. It

* Proceedings of the British Association,  1840.   1839.
                                           Berol.
t De Digcstione Nonnulla, Disa. manq.
t Miiller's Arcldv, 1840.

§ De Helicis Algiroz vasis sanguiferis, 1840.

     || Mr. Bowman has shown that the fat in the fatty liver is contained in the
secreting cells. -- Observations on the Minute Structure of the Fatty Defenera

tion of the Liver, January 1842.

414  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

renders each cell prominent and turgid, and ia the cause of its

dark colour.

     The dilated terminal extremities of the ducts in the liver
Ifof Helix aspersa (Miiller) contain a mass of cells.
                                                       one of

these cells be isolated and examined, it presents a nucleus

consisting of one or more cells. Between the nucleus and the
wall of the containing cell is a fluid of an amber tint, and
floating in this fluid are a few oil-globules. This fluid differs
in no respect from the bile, as found in the ducts of the

gland.

   If a portion of the ramified glandular organ which opens

into the fundus of the stomach of Uraster rubens (Agassiz) be
examined, its internal surface is found to be lined with cells ;
between the nucleus of each of which and the wall of the cell

itself a dark-brown fluid is situated. The organ secretes a
fluid, supposed to be of the nature of bile.

     The dark-brown ramified caeca of the same animal exhibit
on their internal surfaces an arrangement of nucleated cells,
the cavities of which contain a brown fluid. These caeca are
also supposed to perform, or to assist in the performance of,
the function of the liver.

     The liver of Modiola vulgaris (Fleming) contains masses of
spherical cells. Between the nucleus and the wall of each of
these cells a light-brown fluid is situated, bearing a close re
semblance to the bile in the gastro-hepatic pouches.

     The nucleated cells which are arranged around the gastro-
hepatic pouches of the Pecten opercularis are irregular in
shape, and distended with a fluid resembling the bile.

     The hepatic organ, which is situated in the loop of
intestine of Pinna prunum (Fleming), consists of a mass of
nucleated cells. These cells are collected in groups, in the

interior of larger cells or vesicles. These nucleated cells are
filled with a light-brown bilious fluid.

     The hepatic organ, situated in the midst of the reproductive

SECRETING STRUCTURES.  415

apparatus, and in the loop of the intestine of Phallusia
vulgaris (Forbes and Goodsir), consists of a number of vesicles,
and each vesicle contains a mass of nucleated cells. These

cells contain a dark-brown bilious fluid.

     The hepatic organ in the neighbourhood of the stomach,
in each of the individuals of the compound mollusc, the
Alpidium ficus (Linnaeus), consists of nucleated cells, which
contain in their cavities a reddish-brown fluid.

     The liver of Zoligo sagittata (Lamark) contains a number
of nucleated cells, ovoidal and kidney-shaped. These cells
are distended with a brown bilious fluid.

      The nucleated cells in the liver of Aplysia punctata
(Cuvier) are full of a dark-brown fluid.

     The ultimate vesicular caeca of the liver of Buccinum

undatum contain ovoidal vesicles of various sizes. These

vesicles contain more or less numerous nucleated cells. The

cells are full of a dark-brown fluid.
    The hepatic caeca in the liver of Patella vulgata. --Each of

these vesicles encloses a body, which consists of a number of
nucleated cells, full of a dark fluid resembling the bile.

     The simple biliary apparatus which surrounds the gastric
portion of the intestinal tube of Nereis contains nucleated
cells, full of a light-brown fluid.

     The hepatic caeca of Carcinus mcenas contains cells full of
a fluid of an ochrey colour, along with numerous oil-globules.

     The hepatic caeca of Carabus catenulatus (Fabricius) contain
cells attached to their internal surfaces. Between the nuclei

and the cell-walls a brown liquid containing numerous

granules is situated.
     The kidney of Helix aspersa (Miiller) is principally com

posed of numerous transparent vesicles. In the centre of
each vesicle is situated a cell full of a dead white granular

mass. This gland secretes pure uric acid.
     The ultimate elements of the human liver are nucleated

416  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOCxICAL OBSERVATIONS.

cells. Between the nucleus and the cell-wall is a light-brown
fluid, with one or two oil-globules floating in it.

      The vesicular caeca in the testicle of Squalus cornubicus
contain nucleated cells, which ultimately exhibit in their

interior bundles of spermatozoa.
      The generative caeca of Echiurus vulgaris (Lamark) contain

cells full of minute spermatozoa.

      Aplysia punctata secretes from the edge and internal
surface of its mantle a quantity of purple fluid. The secreting
surface of the mantle consists of an arrangement of spherical
nucleated cells. These cells are distended with a dark purple

matter.

     The edge and internal surface of the mantle of Janthina
fragilis (Lamark), the animal which supplied the Tyrian dye,
secretes a deep bluish purple fluid. The secreting surface
consists of a layer of nucleated cells, distended with a dark

purple matter.

    If an ultimate acinus of the mammary gland of the bitch

be examined during lactation, it is seen to contain a mass of

nucleated cells. These cells are generally ovoidal, and rather
transparent. Between the nucleus and the cell-wall of each
a quantity of fluid is contained, and in this fluid float one,
two, three, or more oil-like globules, exactly resembling those
of the milk.

    IIn addition to the series of examples already given,

might adduce many others to prove that secretion is a function
of the nucleated cell. Some secretions, indeed, are so trans

parent and colourless, as to render ocular proof of their
original formation within cells impossible ; and we are not
yet in possession of chemical tests sufficiently delicate for the

Idetection of such minute quantities. The examples have

selected, however, show that the most important and most
striking secretions are formed in this manner. The proof of
the universality of the fact, in reference to the glandular

                             .SECRETING STRUCTURES.                                  417

structures which produce colourless secretions, cau only rest

at present on the identity of the anatomical changes which

occur in their cellular elements. This part of the proof I shall

enter upon in another part of this chapter.

The secretion within a primitive cell is always situated

between the nucleus and the cell-wall, and would appear to

be a product of the nucleus*

The ultimate secreting structure, then, is the primitive

cell, endowed with a peculiar organic agency, according to the
Isecretion it is destined to produce.
                                                                                     shall henceforward

name it the primary secreting cell. It consists, like other

primitive cells, of three parts --the nucleus, the cell-wall, and

the cavity. The nucleus is its generative organ, and may or

may not, according to circumstances, become developed into

young cells. The cavity is the receptacle in which the

secretion is retained till the quantity has reached its proper
limit, and till the period has arrived for its discharge.

Each primary secreting cell is endowed with its own

peculiar property, according to the organ in which it is
situated. In the liver it secretes bile-- in the mamma, milk,

etc.

     The primary secreting cells of some glands have merely
to separate from the nutritive medium a greater or less
number of matters already existing in it. Other primary
secreting cells are endowed with the more exalted property
of elaborating from the nutritive medium matters which do
not exist in it.

* In the original Memoir the cell-wall is stated to be the probable secreting

structure. "Now, as we know that the nucleus is the reproductive organ of

the cell -- that it is from  as from germinal spot, that new cells are formed --
I
              I

                                      it,
                                               it

                                                                        a
                                                                                 is
am inclined to believe that has nothing to do with the formation of the

secretion.  believe that the cell-wall itself the structure, by the organic

action of which each cell becomes distended with its peculiar secretion, at ths
expense of the ordinary nutritive medium which surrounds it." -- Tram. Soy.

Soc. Edin. 1842.

                              2e

418  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

     The discovery of the secreting agency of the primitive cell
does not remove the principal mystery in which this function
has always been involved. One cell secretes bile, another
milk ; yet the one cell does not differ more in structure from
the other than the lining membrane of the duct of one gland
from the lining membrane of the duct of another. The
general fact, however, that the primitive cell is the ultimate
secreting structure, is of great value in physiological science,
inasmuch as it connects secretion with growth, as phenomena
regulated by the same laws. The force, of whatever kind it
may be, which enables one primary formative cell to produce
nerve and another muscle, by an arrangement within itself of
the common materials of nutrition, is identical with that force

which enables one primary secreting cell to distend itself
with bile, and another with milk.

     Instead of growth being a species of imbibing force, and

secretion on the contrary a repulsive --the one centripetal,
the other centrifugal -- they are both centripetal. Even in

their later stages the two processes, growth and secretion, do
not differ. The primary formative cell, after becoming
distended with its peculiar nutritive matter, in some instances

changes its form according to certain laws, and then, after a
longer or shorter period, dissolves and disappears in the inter
cellular space in which it is situated, its materials passing

into the circulating system if it be an internal, and being
merely thrown off if it be an external cell. The primary

secreting cell, again, after distension with its secretion, does
not change its form so much as certain of the formative cells,
but the subsequent stages are identical with those of the latter.

It bursts or dissolves, and throws out its contents either into

Iducts or gland-cavities, both of which, as shall afterwards

show, are intercellular spaces, or from the free surface of the

body.
     The general fact of every secretion being formed within

SECRETING STRUCTURES.                     419

cells, explains a difficulty which has hitherto puzzled physio
logists --viz. why a secretion should only be poured out on the

free surface of a gland-duct or secreting membrane.
     "Why," says Professor Miiller, "does not the mucus

collect as readily between the coats of the intestine as exude

from the inner surface ? Why does not the bile permeate the

walls of the biliary ducts, and escape on the surface of the
liver, as readily as it forces its way outwards in the course of

the ducts ? Why does the semen collect on the inner surface

only of the tubuli seminiferi, and not on their exterior, in

their interstices? The elimination of the secreted fluid on
one side only of the secreting membrane --viz. on the interior
of the canals -- is one of the greatest enigmas in physiology."

Miiller proceeds to explain this enigma by certain hypotheses ;

but the difficulty disappears, the mystery is removed, when

we know that the secretion only exists in the interior of the

ripe cells of the free surface of the ducts or membrane, and is

poured out or eliminated simply by the bursting and solution

Iof these superficial cells.
         have hitherto confined my observations to the structure

and function of the ultimate secreting element, the primary
I Isecreting cell.
now proceed to state the laws which have

observed to regulate the original formation, the development,

and the disappearance of the primary organ. This subject

necessarily involves the description of the various minute

arrangements of glands and other secreting structures.

    If the testicle of Squalus eornvhicus (Gmelin) be examined

when the animal is in a state of sexual vigour, the following

arrangements of structure present themselves :--

     The gland consists of a number of lobes separated, and at

the same time connected, by a web of filamentous texture, in

which ramify the principal bloodvessels.

The lobes, when freed from this tunic, present on their

surface a number of vesicles. When the gland is dissected

420  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

under water, and one of the lobes is raised out of its capsule,
an extremely delicate duct is observed to pass from it into
the substance of the capsule, to join the ducts of the other

lobes.

     When a section is made through one of the lobes, it be
comes evident that the vesicles are situated principally on its

exterior.

   If a small portion be macerated in water for a few hours,

and dissected with a couple of needles, there are observed
attached to the delicate ducts which ramify through the lobe
vesicles in all stages of development. These stages are

the following :--1st, A single nucleated cell attached to

the side of the duct, and protruding, as it were, its outer

membrane.

    2d, A cell containing a few young cells grouped in a mass

within it ; the parent cell presenting itself more prominently
on the side of the duct.

    Zd, A cell attached by a pedicle to the duct, the pedicle

being tubular, and communicating with the duct ; the cell
itself being pyriform, but closed and full of nucleated cells.

     4th, Cells larger than the last, assuming more of a globular
form, still closed, full of nucleated cells, and situated more

towards the surface of the lobe.

      5th, The full-sized vesicles already described as situated
at the surface of the lobe. These vesicles are spherical, per
fectly closed ; that part of the wall of each which is attached

to the hollow pedicle forms a diaphragm across the passage,
so that the vesicle has no communication with the ducts of the
gland. The contents of the vesicles are in various stages of
development. Those least advanced are full of simple nucle
ated cells ; in others, the included cells contain young cells in
their interior, so that they appear granular under low powers ;
in others, the included cells have begun at a certain part of
the vesicle to elongate into cylinders, with slightly rounded

SECRETING STRUCTURES.  421

extremities. In others the cylindrical elongation has taken

place in all the included cells, with the exception of a few,
which still retain the rounded form, at a spot opposite to that
part of the vesicle in which the change commenced ; and at
the same time it may be observed, that the cylindrical cells
have become arranged in a spiral direction within the parent
vesicle. Lastly, Vesicles exist in winch all the cells are
cylindrical, and are arranged within its cavity in a spiral

direction.
     The changes which occur in the included nucleated cells

of the vesicle are highly interesting. After the nucleus of
each has become developed into a mass of cells, the parent
cell becomes, as has been stated, cylindrical. The change in
the shape of the cell is contemporaneous with the appearance
of a spiral arrangement of the included mass of cells. This
spiral arrangement is also contemporaneous with an elonga
tion of each ceil in the mass, in the direction of the axis of

the parent cell. When the elongation has reached its maxi
mum, the original mass of included cells has assumed the
appearance of a bunch of spirals, like corkscrews arranged
one with another, spiral to spiral. In particular lights the
cylindrical cell presents alternate spots of light and shade,
but by management of the illumination, the included spiral

filaments become evident ; the light and shade are seen to
arise from the alternate convexities and concavities of the
spiral filaments, combined in a spiral bundle.

     In vesicles more advanced, the wall of the cylindrical cells

has become attenuated.

     In other vesicles the diaphragms across their necks have

dissolved or burst, the bundles of spiral filaments float along
the ducts of the gland, or separate into individual spiral fila

ments. These filaments are completely developed spermatozoa,
pointed and filamentous at both extremities, thicker and

spiral in the middle.

422  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

     In the centre of the lobe, where the smaller ducts meet to

form the principal duct, there is a mass of grey gelatinous
matter through which the ducts pass. This gelatinous matter
consists of a number of cells lying between the converging

ducts, and from their peculiar appearance not presenting the
Iusual nuclei.
                am inclined to believe that they are either

vesicles which have never become developed on account of the

pressure of the surrounding parts, or that they are old vesicles

in a state of atrophy after the expulsion of their contents.

     Having now described the changes which are constantly

taking place in the testicle of this shark when the organ is in

Ia state of functional activity, must defer till a future occa

sion an account of similar changes which occur in the paren

chyma of an order of glands, of which the one already
Idescribed may be considered as a type.
                                             may state, how
Iever, that have ascertained the following general facts in
reference to glands of this order :--

     1st, The glandular parenchyma is in a constant state of

change, passing through stages of development, maturity, and

atrophy.

     2d, The state of change is contemporaneous with, and

proportional to, the formation of the secretion, being rapid

when the latter is profuse, and vice versa.

      3d, There are not, as has hitherto been supposed, two

vital processes going on at the same time in the gland, growth
and secretion, but only one -- viz. growth. The only difference

between this kind of growth and that which occurs in other

organs being, that a portion of the product
is                                           from the
                                  is
                                                         a

                                                                                               is,
                                                                                                       a
anatomical condition of the part, thrown out of the system.

     Aih, The vital formative process which goes on in gland

regulated by the anatomical laws of other primitive cellular

parts.               at first single nucleated celL From

     5th, An acinus

the nucleus of this cell others are produced. From these,

                      SECRETING STRUCTURES.     423

again, others rise in the same manner. The parent cell,

however, does not dissolve away, but remains as a covering to

the whole mass, and is appended to the extremity of the duct.
Its cavity, therefore, as a consequence of its mode of develop

ment, has no communication with the duct.

The original parent cell now begins to dissolve away, or

to burst into the duct at a period when its contents have
attained their full maturity. This period varies in different

glands, according to a law or laws peculiar to each of them.

    6th, In the gland there are a number of points from which

Iacini are developed, as from so many centres. These name

the germinal spots of the gland.

7th, The secretion of a gland is not the product of the

parent cell of the acinus, but of its included mass of cells.

The parent cell or vesicle may be denominated the primary

cell ; its included nucleated cells, after they have become

primary secreting cells, may be named secondary cells of the

acinus.

8th, There are three orders of secretions : A(1.) true secre
tion--that
         ;            matter formed in the primary secreting cell-

                 is,
cavities or, (2.) A mixture of fluid formed in these cell-
                                  aa
cavities with the developed or undeveloped nuclei of the cells

themselves and, (3.) It may be number of secondary cells
             ;

passing out entire.

In the liver of Carcinus mcenas, and other Crustacea,
                                             it
                                                         it
may be observed, that each of the follicles of which consists

presents the following structure --The blind extremity of the
                                  :

follicle slightly pointed, and contains in its interior mass
         is                                  a

of perfectly transparent nucleated cells. From the blind ex

tremity downwards, these cells appear in progressive states of

development. At first they are mere primitive nucleated cells
                                                       ;

further on they contain young cells and beyond this they
                                      ;

assume the characters of primary secreting cells, being dis

tended with yellow bile, in which float oil-globules, the oil in

424  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

some instances occupying the whole cell. Near the attached
extremity of the follicle an irregular passage exists in the
midst of the cells, and allows the contents of the cells which

bound it to pass on to the branches of the hepatic duct.
     This arrangement of the secreting apparatus may be taken

as the type of an order of glands, which . consist of follicles
more or less elongated. Growth in glands of this kind is
regulated by the following laws :--

      1st, Each follicle is virtually permanent, but actually in a

constant state of development and growth.
     2d, This growth is contemporaneous with the function of

the gland, that function being merely a part of the growth,
and a consequence of the circumstances under which it occurs.

     M, Each follicle possesses a germinal spot situated at its
blind extremity.

     Ath, The vital action of some follicles is continuous, the

germinal spot in each never ceasing to develope nucleated
cells, which take on the action of and become primary
secreting cells, as they advance along the follicle. The action
of other follicles is periodical.

     oth, The wall, or germinal membrane of the follicle, is
also in a state of progressive growth, acquiring additions to
its length at its blind extremity, and becoming absorbed at
its attached extremity. My brother, in a paper on the
" Development and Metamorphoses of Caligus," read in the
Wernerian Society, April 1842, has stated that the wall of
the elongated and convoluted follicle, which constitutes the
ovary in that genus, grows from its blind to its free extremity,
at the same rate as the eggs advance in development and

position. A progressive growth of this kind would account

for the steady advance of its attached contents, and would
also place the wall of the follicle in the same category with
the primary vesicle, germinal membrane, or wall, of the acinus
in the vesicular glands.

SECRETING STRUCTURES.  425

     6lh, The primary secreting cells of the follicle are not
always isolated. They are sometimes arranged in groups,
and when they are so each group is enclosed within its
parent cell, the group of cells advancing in development ac
cording to its position in the follicle, but never exceeding a
particular size in each follicle.

   IIn my original memoir, stated my opinion that there is

an order of glands --namely, those with very much elongated
ducts -- which do not possess germinal spots in particular
situations, but in which these spots are diffused more uni
formly over the whole internal surface of the ducts. The
human kidney is a gland of this order *

     We require renewed observations on the original develop
ment of glands in the embryo. From the information we
possess, however, it appears that the process is identical in
its nature with the growth of a gland during its state of
functional activity.

     The blastema, which announces the approaching formation
of a gland in the embryo, in some instances precedes, and is
in other instances contemporaneous with, the conical blind
protrusion of the membrane upon the surface of which the
future gland is to pour its secretion.

    In certain instances it has been observed that the smaller

branches of the duct are not formed by continued protrusion
of the original blind sac, but are hollowed out independently
in the substance of the blastema, and subsequeutly com
municate with the ducts.

     * "1 am the more inclined to believe this, from what I have observed in
certain secreting membranes. Thus the membranes which secrete the purple
in Aplyria and JantMna are not covered with a continuous layer of purple
secreting cells ; but over the whole surface, and at regular distances, there are

spots, consisting of transparent, colourless, nucleated cells, around which the
neighbouring cells become coloured. Are these transparent cells the germinal
spots of these secreting membranes ? And may not the walls of the elongated
tubes, and the surfaces of the lamina; within certain glands, have a similar
arrangement of germinal spots?" -- Trans. Rny. Soc. Edin. 1842.

426  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

    It appears to be highly probable, therefore, that a gland

is originally a mass of nucleated cells, the progeny of one or
more parent cells ; that the membrane in connection with

the embryo gland may or may not, according to the case, send
a portion of the membrane, in the form of a hollow cone, into
the mass ; but whether this happens or not, the extremities

of the ducts are formed as closed vesicles, and then nucleated
cells are formed within them, and are the parents of the
epithelium cells of the perfect organ.

     Dr. Allen Thomson has ascertained that the follicles of

the stomach and large intestine are originally closed vesicles.
This would appear to show that a nucleated cell is the original
form of a follicle, and the source of the germinal spot which
plays so important a part in its future actions.

     The ducts of glands are, therefore, intercellular passages.
This is an important consideration, inasmuch as it ranges
them in the same category with the intercellular passages
and secreting receptacles of vegetables*

     Since the publication of my paper on the secreting struc
tures, in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh

I Iin 1842, have satisfied myself that was in error in attri

buting to the cell-wall the important function of separating
and preparing the secretion contained in the cell-cavity.
The nucleus is the part which effects this. The secretion con
tained in the cavity of the cell appears to be the product of
the solution of successive developments of the nucleus, which
in some instances contains in its component vesicles the
peculiar secretion, as in the bile-cells of certain Mollusca, and
in others becomes developed into the secretion itself, as in

seminal cells. In every instance, the nucleus is directed

towards the source of nutritive matter, the cell-wall is opposed
to the cavity into which the secretion is cast. This accords
with that most important observation of Dr. Martin Barry, on
the function of the nucleus in cellular development.

         * Henle, in his General Anatomy, has made a similar statement.

SECRETING STRUCTURES.                                                     427

   I have also had an opportunity of verifying, and to an

extent which I did not at the time fully anticipate, the re

markable vital properties of the third order of secretions,

Ireferred to in the memoir to which have just alluded. The

distinctive character of secretions of the third order thata
                                        is
when thrown into the cavity of the gland, they consist of
                                              a
                                                                     is,
entire cells, instead of being the result of the partial or entire

dissolution of the secreting cells. It the most remarkable

peculiarity of this order of secretions that, after the secreting

cells have been separated from the gland, and cast into the

duct or cavity, and therefore no longer component part of

the organism, they retain so much individuality of life, as to

proceed in their development to greater or less extent in

their course along the canal or duct, before they arrive at
their full extent of elimination.

The most remarkable instance of this peculiarity of secre

tions of this order,a is  that discovered by my brother, and

recorded by him in succeeding chapter.* He has observed

that the seminal secretion of the decapodous crustaceans

undergoes successive developments in its progress down the

duct of the testis, but that  it  only becomes developed into

spermatozoa after coitus, and in the spermatheca of the female.

He has also ascertained that, apparently for the nourishment

of the component cells of secretion of this kind, quantity
                          a                               a

of albuminous matter floats among them, by absorbing which

they derive materials for development after separation from

the walls of the gland.

This albuminous matter he compares to the substance

which, according to Dr. Martin Barry's researches, results

from the solution of certain cells of brood, and affords

nourishment to their survivors. It one of other instances
                          *

                                              is
                                                       a
in which cells do not derive their nourishment from the blood,

but from parts in their neighbourhood which have undergone

                          See page 420.

428  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

solution ; and it involves a principle which serves to explain
many processes in health and disease, some of which have been
referred to in other parts of this work.

   I Iconclude, therefore, from the observations which have

made--1st, That all the true secretions are formed or selected

by a vital action of the nucleated cell, and that they are first
contained in the cavity of that cell ; 2d, That growth and
secretion are identical -- the same vital process, under different

circumstances*

    * In Mr. Bowman's elaborate Paper " On the Structure and Use of the

Malpighian Bodies of the Kidney," read in the Royal Society of London, 17th
February 1842, and in his Article " Mucous Membrane," in the Cyclopaedia of
Anatomy, written in December 1841, certain parts of the theory of secretion
are well elucidated by a reference to human structure. In my own Memoir,

read in the Royal Society of Edinburgh, 30th March 1842, I endeavoured, by

an appeal to facts in comparative anatomy, to establish secretion as a function
of the nucleated cell, and to show that glandular phenomena are only the
changes which the cellular elements of these organs undergo. Mr. Bowman's
own observation on the secretion of fat by the cells of the human liver in a
state of disease was an important and positive result ; and Professor John
Reid, with whom I had frequent conversations on the subject of secretion, and
to whom I had communicated my views on the subject a year before the
publication of my Paper, was in the habit of supporting Purkinje and Schwann's
hypothesis, by an appeal to the structure of Molluscum contagiosum, as de
scribed by Professor Henderson and Dr. Paterson in the Edinburgh Medical
and Surgical Journal, 1841.


YolJZ  Plate VII

       _ E _ ._ .:.

TESTIS IN DECAPODOUS CRUSTACKA.  429

XXVI.-- THE TESTIS AND ITS SECRETION IN THE
 DECAPODOUS CRUSTACEANS.-- (Plates VII. VIII.)

The organs of generation in the male crustacean consist of
testes, vasa deferentia, and external or intromittent organs.

    In no class of animals do these parts vary so much as in
that now under consideration. In ever}' family, and almost

in every genus, they afford generic, and in some even specific,
characters. This variableness of configuration and structure
is not peculiar to the organs of reproduction, but exists also
in the other systems --the vascular and respiratory, the
nervous and locomotive. Such a variableness is to be looked
for in a class, the forms in which pass from that of the
annelids, through the articulata, to the mollusc. Through
out all this range of form the organs and functions vary in
accordance with those in the group of animals to which the
crustaceans presenting them are analogous.

     In all the higher, or Brachyurous Crustaceans, the internal
organs of generation are comparatively most highly developed.
These organs exhibit the greatest complexity of form and
structure among the Triangulares, but in the next order, the
Cyclometopa, they are of great size. These crustaceans are
accordingly the most prolific, and in greatest demand as
articles of diet. . The Catometopa, or rather the higher forms
of that family, have these organs also very large ; this family
containing the land-crabs of tropical climates, which are used

as food.

      As we descend towards the Anomoura, the internal organs
of generation are found to give way gradually to others, which

430  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

have apparently a more important part to play in the economy ;
and in the lowest forms of the Oxystoma they are in a
minimum state of development.

    In this division (Brachyura) they occupy both sides of the

shell, lying upon the liver, and sometimes entering the folds
of that organ, and separated with difficulty from it. In
others, as Cancer and Carcinus, when in an active state, they

completely cover and conceal the liver.

    In Zeptopodium and Hyas the testis is a body of consider

able size, lying upon the upper surface of the liver, and con
sisting of irregular masses, formed by the twistings of its

constituent duct. It is covered by a delicate membrane,

which is much stronger on the body of the testis than else
where, and is analogous to the tunica albuginea in the higher

animals. The gland, extending forward, gradually enlarges,
and when it has arrived in a line with the stomach, curves

slightly inwards to the mesial plane, and terminates in a large
tube on each side, which is its duct much dilated. This large
tube, making a number of convolutions, proceeds inwards and
downwards until it meets and forms a junction with that of
the opposite side. The anastomosis is incomplete in this
division of the class. After running in contact for some

distance, the two ducts again separate, and each becoming

much smaller, terminates by opening at the base of the ex

ternal organs.

    In the Anomoura, instead of being situated in the thorax,

as in the Brachyura, the testes are contained in the abdominal
segment of the body, lying on and above the liver. They are
very small in all the animals of this section, the tubuli

seminiferi being large, and after making a few convolutions
ending in the vas deferens, which opens on the base of the
fifth pair of legs, without the intervention of an intromittent

organ. The elongated acini are confined to the lower part,
and are contained within the external tunic of the gland.


Vol.II             piat&vm

            ^s7!^

                   _.:-- ...,.,..

                                                      fl^&ji*»L--Jf?
                   ..'

TESTIS IN DECAPODOUS CRUSTACEA.  431

     In the Maeroura the testes commence on each side of the
stomach, and extend down to the middle parts of the abdomen.
In almost all the species of the section, these organs are
narrow ribbon-shapud organs, connected with one another

immediately behind the stomach by a narrow commissure ;
the vasa deferentia come off behind this commissure, and are

more distinct than in any other of the sections. In Galathea

these organs are more complicated, the tube being more

convoluted.
     The ultimate structure of the testis consists of a germinal

membrane, covered externally by the common tunic of the
organ, or by processes from it. The germinal membrane, in the
upper or first part of its course, developes from germinal spots
in its substance formative cells of a spherical shape and of

small size, which will be afterwards described. In the lower

part of the tube, the formative cells assume a peculiar linear
or spindle shape, attached by one of their extremities to the
germinal membrane, and projecting either into the cavity of
the gland-duct, as in Pagurus, or from its external surface as
in Galathea, and therefore in this case covered by the common
enveloping tunic of the gland, or by processes of it which
correspond to the areolar vascular matrix of the glands in the

higher animals.
     When the animal is getting into season, numerous small

cells are found, as just described, on the internal surface of

the seminal tube, and more particularly from that portion of
the gland which lies on the surface of the liver. As the
animal becomes stronger, these cells increase in size from the
formation of young in their interior. That these young or
secondary cells are produced from the germinal spots on the
germinal membrane of the seminal tube, from which the

primary cell took its origin, appeared highly probable, among
other circumstances from this, that after the latter had burst,

its cell-wall was smooth and regular, not broken up or rough,

432  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

as might have been expected, had the secondary cells been

formed from it. After these primary cejls have burst, the

secondary cells contained in them pass down the seminal tube,

to undergo the changes to be afterwards described.

     The spindle-shaped cells in the lower part of the seminal

tube are large primary cells, two or three generally arising

from a disc or spot in the germinal membrane. They corre

spond in every respect, except in shape and size, to the

spherical primary cells further up the tube, and like them

form in their interior young or secondary cells. These

secondary cells originate in a germinal spot or nucleus, situated

about a third from the attached extremity of the cell. In

such of the spindle-shaped cells as are quite full of secondary

cells, this nucleus cannot be seen, so that it probably dis
appears after the primary cells have become fully developed --

that have become full of young. In such of these elongated
     is,
                                     it,
                                                                           a

                                                                                          a
cells, again, as are not quite developed, with cavities not en

tirely occupied by their progeny, the nucleus may be occasion

ally seen in various stages of development, with brood of

young cells surrounding  and enclosed in membrane carried

off by them from the nucleus (Pagurus).

     These spindle-shaped primary cells of the lower part of

the seminal duct differ from the spherical primary cells of the

upper part of the same tube, principally in this, that whereas

the latter contain only limited number of secondary cells,
     a
          a
formed probably by single act of nuclear development, the

former are filled by successive broods from the nucleus.

    In Hyas, when these spindle-shaped cells project from the

external surface of the seminal duct, instead of into its cavity,

the secondary cells pass off by narrow valvular orifice in its
                               a
                                                      a
attached extremity, and are replaced by others from the

nucleus. The cell in this case has become secreting follicle,

with an active germinal spot.

The passage downwards of the secondary cells, both of the

TESTIS IN DECAPODOUS CRUSTACEA.  433

superior spherical, and the lower spindle-shaped primary cells,
is retarded in the neighbourhood of the latter by long slips or
bands, which run up the cavity of the duct and terminate by
free edges ; the direction of these bands being opposed to the
flow of the seminal fluid downwards.

     These peculiar spindle-shaped cells or acini, although
present in all the orders, are most apparent in the Anomoura

and cuirassed Macroura. In the Triangulares and succeeding

families of Brachyura, also in lower families of Macroura, from

the Cryptobranchiate genera and downwards, they are by no

means so elongated, resembling rather widened and contracted
portions of the seminal duct. The arrangement is similar in

the lower orders--as in Stomapoda, Amphipoda, and Isopoda --

the Lmmodipoda being apparently exceptions to the rule.
Neither is this structure found in Branchwpoda, Entomostraca,
Siphonostoma, and Xiphosura, in which orders the structure
of the testis would require for elucidation a separate inquiry.

     The secondary cells, as has already been stated, continue

to be developed in their progress along the seminal tube. At

the spot where they are retarded by the folds at the necks of
the spindle-shaped cells, they increase much in size, from the
increased number and size of their contained cells. After this
no great change takes place, with the exception of a thinning

of the walls. In this state they pass along the narrow part

of the duct, or vas deferens, and are thrown during coitus into
the spermatheca of the female, there to undergo the essential
change which is to fit them for fertilisation of the ova.

      That this final change can only take place in the sperma
theca of the female does not appear to be the case, for

precocious secondary cells may occasionally be found bursting
in the lower part of the seminal tube, and even as high up as
the spindle-shaped cells. The greater number, indeed, with a
few exceptions the whole of them, are introduced into the

female before bursting.

                                                       2F

434  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

     After lying in the spermatheca for some time, the wall of
the secondary cell becomes so thin that it bursts, and allows

the young cells to escape. These tertiary cells contain, and

are, the formative cells of the spermatozoa. In the higher

crustacea, Brachyura, they each contain one or more sperma

tozoa, in the Maeroura one only. The spermatozoal cells are

nucleated when they first burst from the secondary cells, and

shortly the head of the spermatozoa is found to correspond to

the nucleus.

     The seminal fluid in all the species of Macroura is very

peculiar, the tertiary cells being in all cases armed with three

long slender setae* They are oblong, and dilated at the

armed extremity. They are developed singly within their
parent cells ; sometimes, however, two may be observed in

one cell. These parent or secondary cells are oblong, and

bulge slightly in the middle. After they have remained for

some time in the spindle-shaped caeca (Galathca), the three

setae of the tertiary cell expand, and the cells begin their

descent. In the progress downwards, the unarmed extremity

acquires a small nucleated spot, and in many instances small

spherical cells are thrown off from this, which are quaternary,

and probably spermatozoal cells. In the cuirassed and digging

Macroura these tertiary cells are all armed with three setae,

many times longer than the body of the cell. In the prawn

these setae are short and truncated.

     Throughout the whole course of the lower part of the

seminal tube there may be observed durin-g the active state

of the gland, and while the seminal cells are being produced,

a large quantity of albuminous matter in small irregular
Imasses floating among the cells in an aqueous fluid.
                                                        am

induced to believe that the cells derive their nourishment

from this matter.

     In the upper part of the tube, where the cells are small

              * Von Sicbnlil in Midler's Archir, 1836.

TESTIS IN DECAPODOUS CRUSTACEA.  435

and comparatively few in number, this matter is in small
quantity ; but in the lower part of the tube, where the cells
are more numerous, more developed, and in a more active
condition, it exists in the greatest abundance. Still lower
down in the vas deferens, where the cells are in a state of

satiety, and are in fact absorbing principally their own external
wall, preparatory to bursting, it again diminishes in quantity,

and disappears.
     This albuminous matter would appear to result from the

debris of dissolved cells. It is more abundant in the

Brachyura than in the other forms of Crustacea, in accordance
with the greater abundance of seminal cells *

                                                                       H. D. S. G.

     * An abstract of more extended observations on the subject of this chapter
was published in the Ed. Phil. Journal, October 1843.

  436  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

I

     XXVII.-- THE STRUCTURE OF THE SEROUS

                                MEMBRANES.

A portion of the human pleura or peritoneum will be found

to consist, from its free surface inwards, of a layer of nucleated
scales, of a germinal membrane,* and of the sub-serous
areolar texture intermixed with occasional elastic fibres.
The bloodvessels of the serous membrane ramify in the
areolar texture.

      There is one stratum only of the nucleated scales in the
superficial layer of the serous membrane. This layer con
ceals the germinal membrane, which can only be detected
after the removal of the scales.

     The germinal membrane does not in general show the
lines of junction of its component flattened cells. These
appear to be elongated in the form of ribbons --their nuclei,
or the germinal spots of the membrane, being elongated, ex
panded at one extremity, pointed at the other, and somewhat
bent upon themselves. The direction of these flattened cells
and nuclei is the same in any one part of the membrane, this
direction being in general parallel to the subjacent blood
vessels, in the neighbourhood of which they exist in greatest
numbers. The germinal spots are bright and crystalline, and
may, or may not, according to their condition, contain smaller
cells in their interior. They are not to be confounded with

    * I stated this fact in my Paper on the Intestinal Villi, in the Ed. Phil.
Journal, July 1822. Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman, in their Physiology of
Man, have described the same membrane in the serous texture.

STRUCTURE OF SEROUS MEMBRANES.                        437

the fibres of the areolar texture, or with elastic filaments, or

with the nuclei of the capillary vessels of the subserous

texture, or with paler, ovoidal, somewhat indistinct cells,

scattered throughout that texture, and which appear to be

connected with the common areolar fibres.

These flattened ribbon-shaped scales, and bright crystalline

nuclei, which form the germinal or basement membrane of

the serous coat appear to be identical with the objects de

scribed by Valentin,* Pappenheim,t and Henle,$ and named

by the latter nucleated fibres.

   IIn inflamed or aged serous membranes, have found it

impossible to detect this membrane, or even the superimposed
scales. The germinal membrane in such instances appears to

break up into areolar texture, and to assimilate itself to the

bursae mucosae, or the ordinary enlarged areolae of the areolar

texture.

   If these germinal centres be the sources of all the scales

of the superficial layer, each centre being the source of the

scales of its own compartment, then the matter necessary

for the formation of these during their development must

pass from the capillary vessels to each of the centres acted on

by forces whose centres of action are the germinal spots ;

each of the scales, after being detached from its parent centre,

deriving its nourishment by its own inherent powers.

    I have been in the habit of considering the highly vascular

fringes and processes of the synovial membranes as more
active in the formation of epithelium, and therefore more

closely alUed to the secreting organs, than other portions of
Ifthese membranes.
                    this be the case, Clopton Havers § was

not mistaken in his ideas regarding the functions of these

               * Valentin, Repertorium, 1838.  1839.

t Pappenheim, Zur Kentniss de.r Verdauung,
           t Henle, Analmnie Allgemeine.

§ Clopton Havers, Ostcolog-ia Nova, 1691.

438  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

vascular fringes. They are situated where they cannot inter
fere with the motions of the joint. They hang into those
parts of the cavity best fitted for containing and acting as
reservoirs of synovia; and their high vascularity, and the
pulpy nature of their serous covering, tend to strengthen this

opinion.
      The phenomena attending inflammatory action of the

membranes are highly interesting. The capillaries are all on
one side of the membrane, and yet the serum and lymph are
on the other. The capillary vessels in healthy action have
no power in themselves of throwing out any of their contents.
They do not secrete in virtue of any power inherent in them
selves. Do they acquire this power during inflammation?
Or will any of the hypotheses of effusion account for the
lymph and serum being on the free surface of the serous

membranes, and so little, if any, in the subserous textures ?

   I do not see how we can, in the present state of the

science, account for phenomena of this kind by referring
them to actions of the extreme vessels. We must look for

Ian explanation, am inclined to believe, in a disturbance of

the forces which naturally exist in the extravascular portions
of the inflamed part. *

   * "The primary change," in inflammation, "is in the vital affinities,

common to the solids and fluids, and acting chiefly in that part of the system
where the solids and fluids are most intimately mixed, and are continually
interchanging particles."-- A lison's Outlines of Physiology and Pathology, page

437.

STRUCTURE OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS.  439

      XXVIIL-- STRUCTURE OF THE LYMPHATIC

                           GLANDS.-- (Plate V.)

It is now generally admitted, that the afferent communicate

in the interior of the lymphatic glands with the efferent
vessels. These glands, indeed, consist of a dense network of
lymphatics, in the meshes of which the arteries, veins, and
nerves ramify. Much difference of opinion still exists, how
ever, as to the nature of the communication between the

afferent and efferent vessels, and no definite idea is enter
tained regarding the parenchyma of these organs.

      We know that an efferent lymphatic, before it enters a
gland, consists of an external tunic of filamentous texture, a
middle tunic of fibrous texture, and an internal layer of epi
thelium.

      Immediately after the branches, into which the afferent
vessel divides, have penetrated the capsule of the gland, they
lose their external tunic. For a short distance, indeed, until
they have begun to anastomose with one another, a very thin
external tunic, accompanied by a little fat, is still observable.
This fat is continuous with the layer of adipose texture which
generally exists immediately under the capsule of the gland,
and through which the lymphatics must pass to and from the

organ.
     The branches of the extra-glandular lymphatics, then,

which pass to and from the glands, possess a very thin inter
nal tunic ; but the network of intra-glandular lymphatics
which enter into the structure of the gland itself, presents no

440  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

external coat. The external tunic of the extra-glandular

lymphatics--the afferent and efferent vessels --appears to

leave them almost entirely at their entrance and exit from
the organ, and by passing on to the surface of the gland forms

its capsule.
     This capsule is moderately strong, somewhat smooth on

its free, more filamentous on its attached surface, sending in
wards from the latter the processes already described, which
not only support the larger branches of the vessels before
they anastomose, but also bind together and strengthen the
substance of the organ. The larger trunks of the arteries and
veins, as they pass through the capsule, and plunge into the
substance of the gland, carry along with them also a certain
quantity of filamentous texture, which is derived from the
internal surface of the capsule, and is continuous with the
processes which surround the larger lymphatic branches.

     The middle or fibrous tunic of the extra-glandular lymph
atics, also begins to disappear after these vessels have pene

trated the capsule of the gland. It is still sufficiently ap

parent on the lymphatics near the surface of the organ, but
is met with sparingly towards the centre. Different glands,
however, differ in this respect ; the human intra-glandular
lymphatics appearing to me to retain more of their fibrous
tunic than those in the more granular and developed mesen
teric glands of the dog and seal.

    It however, to the changes which the internal tunic of

the intra-glandular lymphatics undergoes, that shall now
more particularly direct attention, as these have hitherto

escaped observation, and as upon them depend those appear
ances and peculiarities which are yet unexplained.

         shall first describe the internal tunic, and afterwards its

arrangement.

    If this tunic be traced from the afferent lymphatics, in

which presents the usual structure, into the branches im
I

       it is,

                                              I

STRUCTURE OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS.                         441

mediately after they have penetrated the capsule of the gland,

it is found to become thicker and more opaque. In the short

dilated anastomosing branches which form the intra-glandular

network this tunic has become so thick and opaque, that the

vessels will no longer transmit the light, and appear as if they
were stuffed full of a granular matter. When these thickened

and dilated vessels are cut, torn, or broken, so as to display

their structure, it may be observed that two parts enter into
their composition -- an extremely fine external membrane, and

a thick granular substance, which lines the membrane.

     The external membrane is extremely thin and transparent.

In its substance there are arranged, at regular distances,

ovoidal bodies, so placed that their long diameters are all in

the same direction. The distance of these bodies from one

another is somewhat greater than their long diameters. They

are imbedded in the substance, and form a part of the mem

brane. They are hollow, and contain one or more rounded
Ivesicles grouped together in their interior.
                                               have seen

portions of this membrane, after it has been acted upon by

acetic acid, present an appearance of being broken up into

flat semi-transparent scales, united by their edges --each scale

consisting of one of the nucleated ovoidal bodies, and a

portion of the surrounding membrane.

The thick granular substance which is attached to the

internal surface of the membrane just described, is composed

entirely of nucleated particles, closely packed together, and

cohering to one another. The thickness of this layer of

granular substance is so considerable as to render the vessel,

of which it is a part, almost opaque, encroaching on its cavity,

and leaving a comparatively narrow canal for the passage of

the lymph and chyle. This canal appears to be somewhat

irregular, in consequence of the greater exuberance of the

granular substance in some spots, and its deficiency in others.

This circumstance also accounts for the greater transparency

442  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

of the vessels at certain parts of their extent. The canal is

not lined by a membrane, but appears to me to be irregularly

pierced through the granular substance, the projections and

hollows of which, as well as the superficial layer of its nucle

ated particles, being freely bathed by the lymph and chyle.

     The nucleated particles are on an average about the 5000th

of an inch in diameter. They are spherical, and contain a

nucleus, which consists of one or more particles. Their walls

are very distinct, especially after being treated with acetic acid,

which reduces their size somewhat, without dissolving or

breaking them up.

The layer of particles which has now been described is

thickest in the lymphatics towards the centre of the gland.

If it be examined in either direction towards the afferent or

efferent branches, it will be found to become thinner, and, at

last, to be continuous with the layer of flat epithelium-scales

of the extra-glandular lymphatics.

The anatomical relations of the membrane, and its layer

of nucleated particles, are identical with those which charac

terise the primary cells or membrane, and the secondary or

secreting cells of certain glands. The oval vesicles in the

substance of the membrane are germinal spots or centres of
Inutrition, and the membrane is a germinal membrana
                                                       am

inclined to believe the spots on the membrane to be the

sources from which the germs of the nucleated particles of

the thick layer are derived. These spots are doubtless in a

state of constant activity in all lymphatic glands, but must

be called into much more vigorous action periodically in the
Ifmesenteric glands, during the passage of the chyle.
                                                       this

be the case, these spots must exert a force by which matter

is abstracted from the blood which circulates in the neighbour

ing capillaries, for the purpose of developing a steady succes

sion of nucleated particles.

The arrangement in the substance of the lymphatic glands

STRUCTURE OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS.  443

of this highly-developed portion of the lymphatic system of
"vessels, or, in other words, the mode in which the afferent

Icommunicate with the efferent lymphatics, have found to

coincide with the account usually given of it. The terminal
branches of the afferent form a more or less dense network

with the radicals of the efferent lymphatics. The question
Avhich has been so often agitated, as to whether cavities exist,
intermediate between the two sets of lymphatics, is not one
of much importance. Some lymphatic glands, as has fre
quently been stated, exhibit, after injection with mercury,
nothing but a mass of lymphatic vessels ; others, again, a
mass of apparently intermediate cells ; and Cruikshank cor

rectly remarks, that occasionally, when the mercury first
passes through a gland, cells only may appear, but after the
injection has been pushed a little further, vessels full of mer

cury may suddenly present themselves.*

     These various appearances may be explained by the

following facts :-- In some lymphatic glands the meshes are

elongated, in which case no force short of what is sufficient
to burst the vessels can obliterate the vascular appearance.
The intra-glandular lymphatics, like those in other parts, are
liable to be over-distended with injections, or by their own
contents, so that short vessels or rounded meshes, more

especially after great distension, assume the appearance of

globular cavities.
     There is another apparently cellular appearance, which is

not met with in the human lymphatic glands, but in some of
the lower mammals, which is produced by another cause-- the
partial or entire obliteration of some of the meshes, so as to

produce cavities more or less extended, with bars or threads

passing from wall to wall, the lymphatics opening into them.
This is the conversion of a network of lymphatics into cavities

     * Cruikshank, The Anatomy of the Absorbing Vexieh of the Human Body,
page 82.

444  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

and connecting threads, by a process of absorption similar to

Ithat which have to describe as occurring in the placental

decidua*
     The external surfaces of the intra-glandular lymphatics

are closely applied to one another. They are strengthened
here and there by fibrous bundles, the remains of the middle
tunic. These fibres are most distinct towards the surface of

the glands, and at the angles formed by the junction of one
lymphatic with another ; and when viewed in thin sections
seem to form arches inclosing circular or oval spaces, like the
fibrous matrix of the human kidney.

     The description usually given of the arrangement of the
bloodvessels in the lymphatic glands is sufficiently correct.

IThe ultimate capillaries, as have observed, do not ramify in

the substance of the germinal membrane of the intra-glandular
lymphatics, but are merely in contact with its external surface.

In this respect they resemble the ultimate ducts of the true

secreting glands.

The capillary network which surrounds the intra-glandular

lymphatics is as fine as that which supplies the ultimate

secreting ducts, and for the same purpose in both, to afford

matter for the continued formation of secreting epithelium on

the internal surface of the germinal membrane.
IThe structure
                    have described affords, in my opinion,
satisfactory evidence --

1. That the lymphatic glands are merely networks of

lymphatic vessels, deprived of all their tunics but the internal,

the epithelium of which is highly developed for the per

formance of particular functions.

2. That these peculiar lymphatics are supplied with a fine

capillary network, to supply matter for the continual renovation

of the epithelium.

                          * See page 457.


VolJI  Plate VI

STRUCTURE OF HUMAN PLACENTA.  445

     XXIX.--THE STRUCTURE OF THE HUMAN

                  PLACENTA.-- (Plates V. VI.)

  I. -- OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE TUFTS AND VILLI OF THE

                                                 PLACENTA.

                1. -- Of the Configuration of the Tufts.
A placental tuft resembles a tree. It consists of a trunk,

of primary branches, and of secondary branches or terminal
villi, which are attached as solitary villi to the sides of the
primary branches, and to the extremities of the latter, in which
case they generally present a digitated arrangement. The
villus, when solitary, is cylindrical, or slightly flattened, or
somewhat club-shaped ; when digitated, each division may be
much flattened, or is then generally heart-shaped. The
digitated villi are only solitary villi grouped together at the
extremity of a primary branch.

            2.-- Of the External Membrane of the Tufts.
     The trunk, the primary branches, and the terminal villi of

the tuft are covered by a very fine transparent membrane,
apparently devoid of any structura This membrane may be
described as bounding the whole tuft, passing from the trunk
to the branches, and from these to the villi, the free extremities
of which it closely covers. Its free surface is smooth and

glistening--its attached surface is somewhat rough*

    * Professor Reid, " On the Anatomical Relations of the Bloodvessels of the
Mother to those of the Foetus in the Human Species. "~Ed. Med. Surg. Journal,

1841, page 7.

446  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

     3. -- Of the External Cells of the Villi.

     Immediately under the membrane just described is a layer

of cells* They are flattened spheroids, slightly quadrilateral

in outline, from the manner in which they are packed together.

When a tuft is viewed in profile, under compression, its edges

exhibit the appearance of a double line, which leads the

observer to suppose that its bounding membrane is double,

with the cells just described situated between the two laminae.

In the space between the two lines, the nuclei of the cells may

be seen in the form of dark oval spots, and the septa formed

by the walls of contiguous cells are also visible.

    At variable distances the space between the two lines

widens out into a triangular form, the base towards the external

membrane, the apex towards the centre of the villus. This

wider space is produced by a larger group of cells, which ap

pear to be passing off from a spot in the centre of the mass.

IThe groups of cells am now describing are germinal spots.

They are the centres from which new cells are constantly

passing off, to supply the loss of those which have disappeared

in the performance of their important function.

   As in the case of the intestinal epithelium, I am inclined

to believe that a fine membrane lines the internal aspect of the
Ilayer of cells.
                  have not been able to isolate it ; but the very

sharp outline in a profile view of a villus confirms me in my

belief of the existence of such a membrane.

            4.-- Of the Internal Membrane of lhe Villus.

     When a villus, under gentle compression, is viewed by
transmitted light, there is perceived under the structures
already described, and immediately bounding the blood

    * Mr. Dalrymple, " On the Structure of the Placenta." -- Med. Chir. Trans.

London, vol. xxv. pnges 23, 2-1.

         STRUCTURE OF HUMAN PLACENTA.   447

vessels, and other parts to be afterwards examined, a

membrane finer and more transparent than the external

membrane, but strong and firm in its texture. This membrane

is most distinctly seen when it passes from one loop or coil

of the bloodvessel of the villus on to another. It separates

very easily from the internal surface of the layer of external
Icells.
         am not disposed to believe that it is attached to this

layer, but am of opinion that the spaces which frequently
exist between them, even in villi which have undergone no

violence, are due to the presence of a fluid matter, the nature

of which will be afterwards considered. Be this as- it may,

pressure very easily separates this membrane from the external

cells --the latter invariably remaining attached to the external

membrane, the former continuing in every instance closely

rolled round the internal structures of the villus, and following

them in all their changes of position.

                  5.-- Of the Bloodvessels of the Tufts.

     Within the internal membrane, and imbedded in structures

to be afterwards described, are situated the bloodvessels of

the tuft. These vessels are branches of the umbilical arteries

and veins.

    In the trunk of the tuft, the artery gradually diminishes
and the vein increases in size. In some of the primary
branches the same relation holds. In others of the primary

branches, and in all the villi, the vessel retains the same mean

diameter throughout. This species of bloodvessel, although
it cannot be considered as either artery or vein, cannot never
theless be denominated, in precise anatomical language, a

capillary. It differs from artery and vein in retaining

throughout the same mean diameter ; and from the capillary,
properly so called, in its greater calibre, containing four or six

blood-discs abreast. It is also peculiar in exhibiting sudden

constrictions and dilatations, like an intestine.

448  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

     These changes in form are most remarkable at the spots

where the vessel makes sudden turns, coils, or convolutions.
Like a capillary, however, this vessel may divide and again
become single, and may send off a division to a vessel of the

same kind. All such divisions and anastomosing vessels,

however, preserve the same mean diameter, and are in this

respect distinguishable from arterial and venous branches.

     As regards the general arrangement of the vessels, it may
be observed that --

     1. One vessel may enter a villus, and, returning on itself,
leave it .again.

     2. Two vessels may enter a villus, may anastomose, and
leave it in one or two divisions.

     3. One or more may enter, may each separate into two
or more divisions, which may reunite and leave the villus as

they entered.
     Many other modifications occur, but the general rule is,

that one vessel enters and leaves the villus without dividing.
     As regards the particular arrangements of the vessels

within the villus, we recognise those leading varieties :--

      1. The simple loop, a vessel turning closely on itself.
      2. The open loop, a vessel turning on itself, but leaving a
space within the loop.
      3. The wavy loop, resembling the first, except that the
vessel is wavy instead of being direct.
      4. The wavy open loops.

      5. The contorted loop, the contortion being generally at
the extremity or sling of the loop ; the limbs of the loop

being straight or wavy as the case may be.
      6. The various modifications which arise from combina

tions of the five foregoing forms, in single, double, triple, or
quadruple or anastomosing loops. The most common forms
are the simple and contorted loop. The simple loop and the
wavy loop are found in cylindrical villi. The open loop and

           STRUCTURE OF HUMAN PLACENTA.  449

the wavy open loop, occur in the flattened and heart-shaped

villi. The contorted and other varieties of loops exist in the

club-shaped and tuberose villi*
ItLastly,
           must be stated as a fact first recorded and

represented by Professor Weber, confirmed by the observations

Iof Mr. John Dalrymple, and to the accuracy of which can

testify, that the same peculiar vessel, or umbilical capillary,
may enter and retire from two or more villi before it becomes

continuous with a vein.

                6. -- Of the internal Cells of the Villus.

      Within the internal membrane, and on the external

Isurface of the umbilical capillaries, are cells which have

 named the internal cells of the tuft. When the vessels are

 engorged, these cells are seen with difficulty. When the
vessels are moderately distended, and the internal membrane

separated from the external cells by moderate pressure, the
cells now under consideration come into view. They are best
seen in the spaces left between the internal membrane and the
retiring angles formed by the coils and loops of the vessels,
and in the vacant spaces formed by these loops. These cells are
egg-shaped, highly transparent, and are defined by the instru
ment with difficulty ; but their nuclei are easily perceived.
They appear to be filled with a transparent highly refractive
matter. This system of cells fills the whole space which

     * Mr. Dalrytnple, in his paper on the Placenta, in the Med. Chir. Trans. ,
has described with great accuracy the manner in which the foetal vessels ramify

and coil in the tufts of the placenta. I am indebted to Mr. Dalrymple for

specimens of his injections of the placenta ; and to Dr. John Eeid, for a portion
of a placenta injected by Professor Weber of Leipsic, and have satisfied myself
of the accuracy of the descriptions given by these anatomists. My own obser
vations have been made on the unprepared placenta. The drawings of the
foetal vessels in Dr. Reid's paper are plans, as the only point he was anxious
to establish was, that the villi terminated in blunt extremities unconnected by
cellular or other textures, the foetal vessels returning upon themselves. -- Reid,
in Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal.

                                                       2o

450  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

intervenes between the internal membrane of the villus and
the vessels, and gives to this part of the organ a mottled

appearance.

                 II.--OF THE VILLI OF THE CHORION.

     Without entering at present into the question as to the

manner in which the villi of the chorion take their origin, I

may state, that as soon as they are distinctly formed, they
present a structure which has to a certain extent been repre
sented and described by Raspail,* Seiler.t and others.

     The substance of the tufts consists of nucleated cells.
These cells are of different sizes. The smaller are situated,
some in the interior, others in the spaces between the latter.
The cavities of the larger cells are full of a granular fluid.
The surface of the tufts is bounded by a fine but very distinct

membrane, which, when minutely examined, is seen to consist
of flattened cells united by their edges.

     The free extremity of each villus of the tuft is bulbous.
The cells which constitute this swelling are arranged round a
central spot. They are transparent and refractive, apparently
from not containing the same granular matter as the cells of
the rest of the villus and tuft. However short a villus may
be, it invariably presents a bulbous extremity, with the
peculiar cellular arrangement already described. Here and
there, on the sides of the stems of the tufts, swellings of a
similar structure may be seen. Each of these swellings is
the commencement of a new villus or stem, which, as it

elongates, carries forward on its extremity the swelling from
which it arose.

      These groups of cells in the bulbous extremities of the
villi of the chorion, and in the swellings on the sides of their

* Raspail.        Chemie Organiquc.

t Sciler.        Gebarmutter und das Ei des Menschen in den ersten Schwanger-

scJiaflsmonatm.

STRUCTURE OF HUMAN PLACENTA.  451

stems, are the germinal spots of the villi. They are the active
agents in the formation of these parts. The villus elongates
by the addition of cells to its extremity, the cells passing off

from the germinal spot, and the spot receding on the extremity
of the villus, as the latter elongates by the additions which

it receives from it.
     The bulbous extremities of the villi of the chorion, are not

only the formative agents of these parts, but are also all along,
but principally after the villi have become well developed,
their functional agents also. They are to the ovum what the

spongioles are to the plant --they supply it with nourishment

from the soil in which it is planted.
     Up to a certain period of gestation, the chorion and its villi

contain no bloodvessels. Bloodvessels first appear in these
parts when the allantois reaches and applies itself to a certain
portion of the internal surface of the chorion. The umbilical
vessels then communicate with the substance of the villi, and
become continuous with loops in their interior. Those villi in
which the bloodvessels do not undergo any further develop
ment, as the ovum increases in size, become more widely
separated, and lose their importance in the economy. The
villi, again, in which vessels form, in connection with the
umbilical vessels, increase in number, and undergo certain
changes in the arrangement of their constituent elements, so
as to become the internal structures of the tufts of the

placenta, as described in the first part of this Memoir. The
villi of the chorion always retain their cellular structure. As
the bloodvessels increase in size the cells diminish in number ;

but are always found surrounding the terminal loop of vessels
in the situation of the germinal spot The fine membrane,
which was formerly described as bounding the villus of the
chorion, always remains at the free extremities of the villi of
the placenta ; but on the stems and branches of the latter it
coalesces with the contained cells.

452  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

     The conversion into fibrous texture of the membrane and
cells of the stems and branches of the tuft of the chorion,

forms the tough white fibrous trunk and branches of the tufts
of the foetal portion of the placenta ; in each of which runs a
branch of the umbilical arteries and vein ; and the fine mem
brane of the villi of the chorion, with its contained cells and
terminal bloodloops, still persistent at the extremities of the
villi, are the internal membrane, the internal cells, and the

bloodloops described in the first part of this Memoir.

      in.--OF THE MATERNAL PORTION OF THE PLACENTA

     The mucous membrane of the uterus presents on its free
surface the orifices of numerous cylindrical follicles arranged

parallel to one another, and at right angles to the surface. In

the spaces between these follicles the bloodvessels form a
dense capillary net-work.

     From the observations of Professors Weber and Sharpey,*
it has now been ascertained, that when impregnation has
taken place, the mucous membrane of the uterus swells, and
becomes lax, that its follicles increase in size, and secrete a
granular matter, and that the capillaries increase in a propor

tional degree. " In a uterus," says Dr. Sharpey, " supposed

to have been recently impregnated, and in which the vessels
had been minutely injected with vermilion, the lining mem
brane, or commencing decidua, appeared everywhere pervaded
by a net-work of bloodvessels, in the midst of which the
tubular glands were seen, their white epithelium strongly con

trasting with the surrounding redness." It must have been

from a uterus in this condition that Von Baer took the sketch
of the structure of the commencing decidua, which has been
copied by Wagner in his Icones Physiological. Von Baer and
Wagner, however, have mistaken the enlarged follicles for

                                 * Miiller's Physiology, page 1574.

STRUCTURE OF HUMAN PLACENTA.  453

papillce, and have represented the capillary loops in a manner
Imuch too formal.
                   have examined a uterus which was in a

state described by Dr. Sharpey. There was a well-formed
corpus luteum in one of the ovaries ; the decidua had appeared
on its internal surface, and presented in the most distinct and

beautiful manner the orifices of the follicles, and the vascu

larity of the interfollicular spaces. The follicles, bounded by
their germinal membrane, were turgid with their epithelial
contents. The interfollicular spaces in which the capillaries
formed a net-work with polygonal or rounded meshes, was
occupied by a texture which consisted entirely of nucleated
particles. This is the tissue represented by Von Baer and

Wagner, described by them as surrounding what they supposed
to be uterine papilla, and considered by them as decidua. The

free surface of the uterine mucous membrane was covered by

a membrane which appeared to me to be continuous with the
germinal membrane of the follicles.

     Dr. Sharpey has not described this interfollicular sub

stance, as his attention appears to have been chiefly directed
to the follicles. As, however, it is to this interfollicular sub

stance, as much as to the enlargement of the follicles them

selves, that the mucous membrane owes its increased thickness,

it appears to me worthy of being recorded.

    A uterus in the condition which has just been described,

is said to be lined with the decidua, consisting, as has been
stated, of an interfollicular cellular substance, and of an ex

tended net-work of capillary bloodvessels.
     About the time at which the ovum reaches the uterus, the

developed mucous membrane or decidua begins to secrete,

the os uteri becomes plugged up by this secretion, where it
assumes the form of elongated epithelial cells ; the cavity of
the uterus becomes filled with a fluid secretion, the " hydro-
perione " of Breschet, and in the immediate neighbourhood of
the ovum, the secretion consists of cells of a spherical form.

454  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

The cells which are separated in the neighbourhood of the

Iovum consider as a secretion of the third order. They have

passed off from the uterine glands entire, and possess a power

peculiar to the third order of secretions, the power of under

going further development after being detached from the ger

minal spots or membrane of the secreting organ.
    From what has now been stated, it appears that the

decidua consists of two distinct elements ; the mucous mem

brane of the uterus thickened by a peculiar development, and

of a non-vascular cellular substance, the product of the uterine

follicles. The former constitutes at a later period the greater

part of the decidua vera, the latter, the decidua reflexa. This

view of the constitution of the decidua, clears up the doubts

which were entertained regarding the arrangement of these

membranes at the os uteri, and entrances of the Fallopian

tubes. It is evident that these orifices will be open or closed,

just as the cellular secretion is more or less plentiful, or in a

state of more or less vigorous development. It also removes

the difficulty of explaining how the decidua covers the ovum,

a difficulty which cannot be reconciled with the views of Dr.

Sharpey, who is obliged to suppose the deposition of lymph,

which is only the old view of the constitution of the decidua.

     When the ovum enters the cavity of the uterus, the cellu

     it
                              a it,
lar decidua surrounds                and becomes what has been named

the decidua reflexa, by continuation of the same action by

which had been increasing in quantity before the arrival of

the ovum. The cellular decidua grows around the ovum by

the formation of new cells, the product of those in whose

vicinity the ovum happens to be situated.

    At this stage of its growth, the ovum with its external

membrane, the chorion, covered by tufts, the structure and

functions of which have been described in the second part of

this Memoir, imbedded in substance which consists
     is
                                      a

entirely of active nucleated cells. The absorbing cells of tho

           STRUCTURE OF HUMAN PLACENTA.             455

tufts are constantly taking up either the matter resulting from
the solution of the cells of the cellular decidua, or the fluid

contained in these cells. The ovum is now deriving its

nourishment, not from the supply which it took along with it

when it left the ovary, but from a matter supplied by the
Iuterus.
           am, therefore, inclined to look upon the cellular

decidua as representing, in the gestation of the mammal, the
albumen of the egg of the oviparous animal. They are both
supplied by a certain portion of the oviduct, and they are

both brought into play after the nourishment supplied by the

ovary is exhausted, or in the course of being exhausted. The
difference between them consists in this, that in the mammal

the albumen is applied to use as quickly as it is absorbed ;

whereas, in the oviparous animal, after being absorbed, it is
Ikept in reserve within the chorion till required.
                                                    have also

been in the habit of considering the uterine cotyledons of the
ruminant and other mammalia as a permanent decidua vera,

and the milky secretion interposed between them and the

foetal cotyledons as decidua reflexa in its primitive and

simplest form.

   I Ihave been thus particular in the explanation of what

believe to be the nutritive function performed respectively by

Ithe chorion and decidua, as upon it shall have to found my

views regarding the actions of nutrition in the fully developed

placenta.

     When the ovum has arrived at a certain stage of its growth,

the absorption and circulation of nutritive matter by the

agency of cells alone is no longer sufficient. At this period,

the ovum has approached the thickened mucous membrane,
or that portion usually described as decidua serotina. About

the same time, the allantois bearing the umbilical vessels
applies itself to the internal surface of that portion of the
chorion opposed to the decidua serotina; and the villi of that

portion become vascular, as formerly described. The vessels

456  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

of the decidua enlarge, and assume the appearance of sinuses
encroaching on the space formerly occupied by the cellular
decidua, in the midst of which the villi of the chorion are

imbedded.    This increase in the calibre of the decidual capil
laries goes  on to such an extent, that finally the villi are
completely
             bound up or covered by the membrane which

constitutes the walls of the vessels, this membrane following

the contour of all the villi, and even passing to a certain

extent over the branches and stems of the tufts. Between

this membrane, or wall of the enlarged decidual vessels, and
the internal membrane of the villi, there still remains a layer

of the cells of the decidua.

    From this period, up to the full time, all that portion of

decidua in connection with the group of enlarged capillaries

and vascular tufts of the chorion, and which may now be

called a placenta, is divided into two portions. The first

portion of the decidua, in connection with the placenta, or

forming a part of  situated between that organ and the
I

                    it it it,

                               is
                                      is

                                                    it

                                                                                        a
wall of the uterus. This the only portion of the placental

decidua with which anatomists have been hitherto acquainted,

and shall name the parietal portion. It has gelatinous

appearance, and consists of rounded or oval cells. Two sets of

vessels pass into  from the uterus. The first set includes

vessels of large size which pass through for the purpose of

supplying the placenta with maternal blood for the use of the

fetus. These may be- named the maternal functional vessels
of the placenta. The second set are capillary vessels, and

pass into this portion of the decidua for the purpose of

nourishing it. These are the nutritive vessels of the placenta.

     The account given by Mr. Hunter of the manner in which

the functional vessels of the placenta pass through this

portion of the placental decidua  is  still doubted by many,

notwithstanding the more recent of Mr. Owen's* dissections,

     * Owen. ralmcr's Edition nf John Hunter's Works, vol. iv.

STRUCTURE OF HUMAN TLACENTA.                               457

Iand the observations of Dr. Reid*  have dissected the

vessels of an unopened uterus at the full time in the manner

adopted by Mr. Owen, by opening one of the large veins over

the spot to which the placenta was attached. Introducing a

Iprobe as a guide, slit open the vein with a pair of scissors,

and repeated the same process with the probe and scissors
Iwhenever a branch entered the vein already opened.
                                                           gra

dually passed through the wall of the uterus. In my progress,

I occasionally found that when the probe was pushed along

an unopened vein, its point appeared at another opening ; and

Ias approached the internal surface of the wall of the uterus,

these anastomoses of the veins became more numerous, the

spaces which they inclosed presenting the appearance of

narrow flat bands. At last, in introducing the probe under
the falciform edges of the venous orifices, it was found to

have arrived at the placental tufts, which could be seen by
raising the edges of the falciform edges. Having passed over

the falciform edges, the venous membrane suddenly passed
to each side to line the great cavity of the placenta. The flat

Ibands which have just described as the spaces inclosed by

anastomosing venous sinuses, became smaller, and, on enter

ing the cavity itself, the bands were seen to have assumed
the appearance of threads, which passed in great numbers
from the vascular edges of the venous openings, and from the
walls of the cavity of the placenta on to the extremities and
sides of the villi and tufts of the placenta. The whole mass
of spongy substance, that is the whole mass of tufts, was in
this manner perceived to be attached by innumerable threads
of venous membrane to that surface of the parietal decidua
of the placenta which was covered by the venous membrane.

IOn proceeding deeper into the substance of the placenta,

perceived that, throughout its whole extent, villus was con
nected to villus, and tuft to tuft, by similar threads of

* Reid. Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, loc. cit.

458  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

venous membrane. Sometimes the apex of one villus was
connected to the apex of another. In other instances the

threads connected the sides of the villi. On minute examina

tion these threads were found to be tubular, and the mem

brane of which they were formed was seen to be continuous

in one direction with the lining membrane of the vascular

system of the mother, and in the other with the external

membrane of the tufts of the placenta, and passing from one

tuft, or set of tufts, on to another, so as to form the central

containing membrane of the bag of the placenta. These

threads, as well as their cavities, are somewhat funnel-shaped

at each extremity. The funnel-shaped portions of the cavities

of threads, and, in some instances, the whole length of the

tube, were found to be full of cells, which were continuous in

the one direction with the parietal decidua of the placenta,

and in the other with the external cells of the placental villi.*

     This observation led me at once to perceive the real signi
Ification of the external cells of the placental tufts.
                                                         saw

that this great system of cells was a portion of the decidua,

all but cut off from the principal mass by the enormous

development of the decidual vascular network, but still con

nected with it by the minute files of cells which fill the

cavities of the placental threads.

     This system of cells, the external cells of the villus, with

the external membrane, are portions of the decidua, and, un

like the other elements of the placental tufts, belong to the

Iorganism of the mother. These cells, with their membrane,

name the central division of the placental decidua, to dis

Itinguish it from the other portion formerly described, and

which have already called the parietal division of the

placental decidua

     1. My observations have confirmed the statements of

      * These are the reflections of the venous membrane of the mother, de
scribed by Dr. Reid.

STRUCTURE OF HUMAN PLACENTA.  459

Professors Weber and Sharpey as to the mode of formation of
the decidua vera ; but have led me to attach more importance
to the interfollicular substance, and to the secreted or non
vascular portion of the decidua.

     2. The placenta, as has long been admitted, consists of a
foetal and of a maternal portion intermixed. But the mater
nal portion, instead of consisting of a part of the vascular
system of the mother only, includes the whole of the external
cells of the villi.

     3. The external membrane of the placental villi is a por
tion of the wall of the vascular system of the mother, continu
ous with the rest of that wall. through the medium of the
placental threads and lining membrane of the placental

cavity.

     4. The system of the external cells of the placental villi
belongs to the decidua, and is continuous with the parietal
division through the medium of the cavities of the placental
threads. This portion of decidua has been named the central
division of the placental decidua, and the threads decidual

bars.

     5. The function of the external cells of the placental villi
is to separate from the blood of the mother the matter
destined for the blood of the foetus. They are, therefore,
secreting cells, and are the remains of the secreting mucous
membrane of the uterus.

      6. Immediately within the external cells of the placental

Ivilli there is a membrane which have named the internal

membrane of the villi. This membrane belongs to the system
of the foetus, and is the external or bounding membrane of
the villi of the chorion.

      7. Inclosed within the internal membrane of the placental
villi is a system of cells, which belong to the system of the
foetus, and are the cells of the villi of the chorion. These are

the internal cells of the placental villus.

400  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

      8. The function of the internal cells of the placental villi
is to absorb, through the internal membrane, the matter secreted
by the agency of the external cells of the villi.

     9. The external cells of the placental villi perform, during
iutra-uterine existence, a function for which is substituted in
extra-uterine life the digestive action of the gastro-intestinal

mucous membrane.

     10. The internal cells of the placental villi perform, during
iutra-uterine existence, a function for which is substituted in
extra-uterine life the action of the absorbing chyle-cells of
the intestinal villi.

     11. The placenta, therefore, not only performs, as has
been always admitted, the function of a lung, but also the
function of an intestinal tube.

STRUCTURE OF BONE.                                        401

XXX.-- THE STRUCTUKE AND ECONOMY OF
                                BONE.

A texture may be considered either by itself, or in con

nection with the parts which usually accompany it. These

subsidiary parts may be entirely removed without interfering

 with the anatomical constitution of the texture. It is essenti

ally non-vascular, neither vessels nor nerves entering into its

intimate structure. It possesses in itself those powers by

which it is nourished, produces its kind, and performs the

actions for which it is destined, the subsidiary or superadded

parts supplying it with materials which it appropriates by its
own inherent powers, or connecting it in sympathetic and

harmonious action with other parts of the organism to which

it belongs.                           these characters    more
                                                          bone
    In none of the textures are       A well-macerated

distinctly seen than in the osseous.

is one of the most easily made, and, at the same time, one of

the most curious anatomical preparations. It is a perfect

example of a texture completely isolated, the vessels, nerves,

membranes, and fat, are all separated, and nothing is left but

the non-vascular osseous substance.

The osseous texture of a fresh bone, considered in this

way, consists of two parts, a hard and a soft. The hard part,

composed of earthy salts, deposited in a cartilaginous matrix,

has already been carefully examined by anatomists. The

soft has not yet attracted attention, in consequence of the

manner in which it is isolated, divided into small portions,

and concealed in the cavities of the osseous corpuscles.

462  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

      The hard part of the osseous texture, considered in a long
bone, presents four surfaces, all communicating with one an

other, a periosteal or external, a medullary or internal, a
Haversian or intermediary, and a corpuscular or canalicular.
The periosteal surface communicates with the Haversian in
three ways : by those Haversian canals which open in it ; by

the canal for the medullary artery gradually subdividing and

diminishing till it breaks up into arterial Haversian canals ;

and by the more numerous canals for the veins, principally
met with at the extremities of the bone. The medullary
surface is to be considered as a portion of the Haversian, '

having been formed by the enlargement, and subsequent
blending of neighbouring Haversian canals into medullary

cavities and cancelli. The canalicular or corpuscular surface
forms the walls of the innumerable corpuscles and canaliculi,
and communicates by the latter with the Haversian, medullary,
and less freely with the periosteal surface.

     The compact osseous substance, in which the corpuscles
and their canaliculi are situated, is not homogeneous in

texture. It consists of cells filled with bony substance,

ossified or calcified primordial cells.
     The soft part of the true osseous texture is not con

tinuous like the hard, but is divided, as has been stated, into
as many portions as there are corpuscles in the bone. Each of
these portions consists of a little mass of nucleated cells of

great transparency. They do not appear to extend along the
canaliculi, but to be confined to the cavity of the corpuscle.

      These two parts, the hard and the soft combined, con

stitute the true osseous texture. They differ from one an
other only in this, that the cells of the one are ossified, those
of the other retain their original delicacy and softness. The

Imasses of soft cells in the oorpuscles, am inclined to

consider as the nutritive centres, germinal centres, or germinal
spots of '..he texture. These centres are the source of all the

                STRUCTURE OF BONE.                              463

hardened cells, each of them being the centre of all those

comprehended within the range of its own canaliculi. Each

of these soft germinal masses is the centre of attraction for

the proper nutriment of bone, and is the active agent in with

drawing this from the vessels, and appropriating  it,partly for

                                                         a
the nourishment of the hard cells, each of which has centre

of attraction within itself, but more probably for the formation

of new calcigerous cells, as the old cells dissolve and their

debris falls back into the returning circulation. The canali
                                      a
                                                  ,
culi are undoubtedly the principal channels for the passage

of nutriment from the capillaries to the calcigerous cells and

germinal centres. They are necessary in hard texture, and

like similar canals and fissures in certain hard cells in vege

tables, only appear at late stage in the development of
             it
bone. Each osseous corpuscle has its own system of canali-
                  is a
culi, these extending for the purpose of communicating withis
                                   a
others, to the confines of its own territory that
                                            ;                   to the

                                                     it

                                                           is,
boundaries of the space which was at one time contained

within the sphere of the primary cell of which was the

nucleus.

The accessory parts of the osseous texture are the vessels,

nerves, membranes, and oil. For my present purpose
                                            a

                                                           it

                                                                      is
only necessary for me to allude to the membranes, as one of

them, the periosteum, has been held to play most important

part in the formation and economy of bone.

The periosteum                      not so important an element in the

constitution of bone as has usually been supposed. In the

adult bone,  nothing more than the fibrous sheath of the

organ, similar to the bounding or limiting membrane of other

organs, and in which the vessels ramify sufficiently to anasto

mose with those of the comparatively few Haversian canals

which open on the external surface. In the foetus    it         much

                                                          is

more vascular, the external surface of the bone being at that

period actively engaged in growth.

4C4  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

     There exists in every true bone a membrane or layer of
much greater importance, and infinitely more extended than
the periosteum. Between the bloodvessels and the walls of
the Haversian canals there is a layer of cellular substance.
This cellular substance is the product, its cells being the
descendants of the corpuscles of the cartilage or matrix in

which the bone was originally formed. It forms a blastema,

originally produced round each cartilage corpuscle by
development into a linear series perpendicular to the
ossifying surface : each of the secondary cartilage corpuscles
remaining as centres, or the sources of new centres of
nutrition of the future bone, their progeny forming the
cellular mass which becomes enclosed in the capsules of com
pact primary bone. When these capsules have opened into
one another to form the Haversian canals, a process similar
to the mode of development of gland ducts and capillaries,
the cellular mass surrounds the vessels in their course, and

separates them from the walls of the canals.
     That this cellular layer plays an important part in the

economy of bone, appears probable from the prominent
position it holds in its development, and from the intimate
connection of the Haversian canals with all the morbid changes
of bone. Its existence, great extent, and probable powers,
cannot be overlooked in any question regarding the economy
of bone in health or disease.

     The cellular mass, just described, fills the cancelli, or en
larged Haversian chambers, of foetal bones, and, in this

situation, has not been overlooked by former observers. In

adult bones, it is in the medullary cavity, cancelli, and, to a
certain extent, in the larger Haversian canals, replaced by fat

cells.

     On the surface of young and vigorous bones 1 have

observed numerous cells, flattened, elongated, and more or less
turgid, belonging doubtless to the system of Haversian cells.

                  REPRODUCTION OF BONK.                         46o

XXXL--THE MODE OF REPRODUCTION AFTER
   DEATH OF THE SHAFT OF A LONG BONE.

The question at issue regarding the source of the new osseous

substance in regeneration of the shaft of a long bone, is thus

stated by Professor Syme.* "Whether the periosteum, or

membrane that covers the surface of the bones, possesses the

power of forming new osseous substance independently of any

assistance from the bone itself?" and the Professor has de

tailed some very ingenious experiments, which satisfied him

that this membrane does possess the power of producing new

osseous texture.

The first experiment consisted in exposing the radius of a

dog, and removing an inch and three quarters of it along with
the periosteum ; and in the other leg removing a correspond
ing portion without the periosteum. In six weeks the cut

extremities of the radius, from which a portion had been taken,

together with the periosteum, had only extended towards one

another in a conical form, with a great deficiency of bone

between them, and in its place merely a small band of tough

ligamentous texture. In the other, where the periosteum had

been allowed to remain, there was a compact mass of bone,

not only occupying the space left by the portion removed,

but rather exceeding it.

The objection to this experiment                    that  cannot be
                       I
                                                        is,
                                                          it

                                                                          it
                                                                                      is
performed accurately.              have satisfied myself, that

    * Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin. vol.  xiv. page  158.  "On the Power of the
Periosteum to form New Bone."
                                   2h

466  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

impossible to separate the periosteum from a dog's radius

without removing along with it minute longitudinal, fila

mentary, or ribbon-ahaped portions of the surface of the bone ;

more particularly, as may be conceived, when performed in

the manner which under the circumstances would be adopted,

by slitting it up in front, and detaching it transversely before

separating the portion of bone. It remains to be proved that

it is not from these minute shreds of bone that the regenerated

portion of the shaft has derived its origin.*

    In the other part of the experiment, in which the
periosteum as well as the bone was removed, it was not to be

expected that complete regeneration should have taken place,

inasmuch as the bounding or limiting membrane of the organ

had been removed, and the surrounding textures were allowed

to collapse and unite. Even under these unfavourable cir

cumstances, the cut extremities of the bone had lengthened

themselves out in a conical form.

     The two subsequent experiments, by the insertion of tin

plates, though highly ingenious, differ in no essential particular
Iffrom the first, and are liable to the same objections.
                                                                         a

section had been made through the denuded shafts, new bone

would have been found deposited in their interior, just as it

had been at the cut extremities in the first experiments.

     The careful examination of numerous bones, the shafts of

which had died, and were in progress of replacement by a

substitute in the form of a shell, has satisfied me that in no

instance do we ever see a new shaft, without at the same time

observing portions of the old shaft ulcerated to a greater or

less extent --the ulcerated portions invariably corresponding

in the early stages to the scales of new bone in the periosteum.

Whenever the old shaft is entire, its periosteal surface pre

senting the natural appearance of a macerated bone, the part

corresponding to this in the new shaft is formed of bone which

     * Baly. Note in his Translation of Miiller's Physiology, page 471.

REPRODUCTION OF BONE.                                  467

is seen to be shooting, in the manner peculiar to this mode of

regeneration, from a point corresponding to an ulcerated

portion of the old shaft. So striking is this peculiarity, that
it will at once recur to those who have had an opportunity of

observing new shafts in an early stage of formation ; as well

as the remarkable contrast between the smooth hard portions

of the dead or dying bone and the nodulated scales lying in

the separated periosteum, alternating with the former, and

concealing from direct view the rough or ulcerated portions of
the dead shaft. In those instances in which the shaft has

died, with the exception of a ring or small portion at each or

one end, close to the epiphysis, the new bone shoots in

stalactitic masses in the longitudinal direction, their course,

direction, and magnitude, corresponding to the forms of the

rings or portions of ulcerated bone in the old shaft. This is

an unfavourable form of necrosis, in consequence of the

difficulty encountered by the extremities of the new shell in

meeting in the centre, and the length of time required for the

process of regeneration. This form has also given rise to a

mistaken view of the source of the new bone in necrosis, a
Ibelief that it is derived from the epiphysis.
                                                have never seen

an instance in which the epiphysis supplied the new shaft,

Iand have had occasion to point out that the specimens on

which such opinions were founded are in fact exemplifications

of the formation of the new, from a ring or portion of the old
shaft close to the epiphysis. An epiphysis is a distinct part,

and has no greater tendency to supply the losses of the

principal mass of the bone to which it belongs than the femur,

fibula, or astragalus, to supply the loss of a tibia.

Another remarkable peculiarity, arising from the circum

stance of the new bone invariably shooting from spots

corresponding to ulcerated portions of the dead shaft, is met

with in instances where one side of a dead shaft is not

ulcerated, and the other side, or a portion of has undergoneit,

468  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

that process. In such instances, the new bone proceeds from
points corresponding to the ulcerations, and shoots in the
form of arches across the smooth portion of the old bone,

meeting from either side, and giving rise to new processes

which ultimately enclose the whole. In instances of this sort

regeneration is effected with difficulty, and there is a tendency
in the old shaft to ulcerate out on the side on which it has

supplied no osseous centres of regeneration.
     The death of the entire shaft of a long bone must be a

very rare occurrence. In a case of this kind, the shaft would
be found lying loose in a cavity formed by the epiphysis at

each end, and the separated periosteum on the sides. The
bone itself, although its surface might be opened up by in
flammation, would present no ulceration or actual deficiency

Iof substance. In a case of this kind, believe no regeneration

whatever would take place. The epiphyses have no tendency

to assist ; and the periosteum has separated without a single

portion of the shaft from which new bone might be produced.
     In the majority of instances of what is incorrectly named

death of the entire shaft, ulcerated portions or deficiencies of the

surface will be met with ; and in the periosteal sheath, scales
Iof new bone corresponding to these will be perceived.
                                                        have

observed the process by which these ulcerations are produced,
and have already described it in the chapter on ulceration.

     The first appreciable inflammatory changes in bone occur
within the Haversian canals. These passages dilate or become

opened up, as may be seen on the surface of an inflamed bone,

or better in a section. The result of this enlargement of the

canals is the conversion of the contiguous canals into one

cavity, and the consequent removal or absorption of all the
osseous texture of the part. This removal of the substance

of the walls of the Haversian canals is not to be explained by

pressure arising from effused lymph, understood either in a

mechanical sense, which is inapplicable to actions of this

                 REPRODUCTION OF BONK.                            469

kind, or in the Hunterian sense in which it is employed, as aa it
mode of expression for an action, the details of which haveis
                                                                                    it,
not been recognised.a is
     By the enlargement of neighbouring Haversian canals, andit

the consequent removal of all the osseous substance of a poris
tion of bone, an ulceration is produced, or a piece of dead or
              ;
dying bone is separated from the living organ. A stratum of
                                                               ;
what, in the language of surgical pathologists, is named

granulations, divides the dead from the living, and ultimately

casts the dead off, by assuming a free surface towards
throwing pus into the inter-spaca

     When the entire shaft of bone attacked by violent in
flammation, there generally time, before death of the bone
takes place, for the separation, by the process just described,
of more or less numerous portions of its surface. When the
entire periosteum has separated from the shaft, carries with

   those minute portions of the surface of the bone. Each of

these covered on its external surface by the periosteum, on
its internal by layer of granulations, the result of the
organised matter which originally filled the inflamed Haver
sian canals the gradual enlargement and subsequent blending
of which ultimately allowed their contained vascular contents
to combine with the layer of granulations just described and
to form the separating medium between the dead shaft and

its minute living remnants. These minute separated portions,
after having advanced somewhat in development, appear, when
carelessly examined, particularly in dried specimens, to be
situated in the substance of the periosteum, and have been
adduced by the advocates of the agency of that membrane in
forming new bone, as evidences of the truth of their opinions.

    In proportion to the equal manner in which these living

portions of the old shaft are arranged over the whole internal
surface of the periosteum, will be the facility and consequent
rapidity in the formation of the new shaft. The shape of the

470  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

new bone will also depend very much upon the same circum
stances ; for, if the centres of formation of the new shaft are

separated from one side only of the old bone, then an un

shapely mass of new bone is thrown out on the same side,

for the purpose of strengthening the part during the time

necessary for shooting across the bridges of bone which are to

supply that side of the new shaft, for the formation of which

no osseous centres had been separated. Every possible modi
fication, resulting from these principles, may be observed in

looking over series of necrosed long bones.

    A remarkable fact in connection with cloacae
                             a                                    that they
                                                             is,
are almost invariably opposite smooth or unaltered portion

of the surface of the dead shaft. They result from the pus

thrown off from the granulating internal surface of the new

shaft making its way to the exterior by those parts not yet

closed, in consequence of having been opposite to portions of

the old shaft, which had not afforded separated osseous

centres. After the new shell has gained its full strength the

cloacae, like sinuses of the soft parts, are prevented from closing

by the continued flow of the pus. The situation of cloacae
                             is
determined by circumstances in the death of the old, and keptis

open by the continued flow of the secretions of the new shaft.

     As, therefore, has been found impossible to separate the
     it
             it
periosteum in living animals without detaching shreds of bone
along with -- as in necrosis of the shafts of long bones, por

tions of the old osseous texture may be detected in the

periosteal sheath opposite ulcerations of the dead shaft --and

as consistent with what  is  at present held regarding the

powers of capillary vessels, and the origin of the textures, we

are compelled to assent to the doctrine that periosteum does not

possess an independent power of forming osseous substance.

     The participation of the periosteum in the office of regene

ration --an important principle in surgery -- not denied in

this conclusion.


Vol.K       PlaU IX

an jszsthj  Awiiwg 3B

REPRODUCTION OF PARTS IN CRUSTACEA.  471

  XXXII.-- THE MODE OF REPRODUCTION OF LOST

        PARTS IN THE CRUSTACEA.-- (Plate IX.)

 That all the species of crustacea have the power of regene
 rating parts of their body which have been accidentally lost,
 is a fact which has been long known. The particular manner
 in which these new parts are developed, and also the organ
 from which the germ of the new part is derived, has never
yet been sufficiently examined or properly explained.

    If one or more of the last phalanges of the leg of a

common crab be seriously injured, the animal instantly
throws off the remaining parts of the limb close to the body.

It has the power of doing so, apparently for two purposes ;

to save the excessive flow of blood which always takes place
at the first wound, and to lay bare the organ which is to
reproduce the future limb. As soon as the injured limb has
been thrown off the bleeding stops, the reason of which will

be explained hereafter ; but if the animal is unable, from

weakness or other causes, to effect this, the haemorrhage

proceeds to a fatal termination.

    It is apparently in the organs of locomotion only that

the power of reproduction resides. That it does not do so in
all parts of the body --in the higher crustacea, at least -- is
proved by experiment, and is also apparent from the circum
stance of many species being obtained with the body and
other parts very much maimed, and which have to all
appearance been so for a considerable period. Wounds of the
body in general prove speedily fatal, if they penetrate deeply,

472  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

but if otherwise, a cicatrix only is formed, which remains

until the casting of the shell, when the new shell takes on

all the characters and appearance of the old one, before it met

with the injury. When the animal is weak and unhealthy,

and in that state meets with any severe injury of a limb, it

is unable to throw it off at the usual place, and consequently

very soon dies from loss of blood ; but when strong and

vigorous, it is enabled to throw the injured limb off with

little apparent pain or exertion. It is a well-known fact,

that these animals can throw off their limbs when seized by

them, and also from several other causes, to which it is

unnecessary to allude at present.

     When the crustacean does throw off a limb voluntarily, it

will be found on examination that this is always effected at

one spot only, near to the basal extremity of the first phalanx.

This part of the phalanx is very much contracted for the

length of half-an-inch, or a little more, in the common edible

crab. The whole of this portion is filled with a fibrous,

gelatinous, glandular-looking mass ; the organ which supplies

the germs for future limbs. On looking closely into the
surface of this body, we find that it is divided into two

unequal parts, by means of a transverse line. The basal or

proximal part of this body is the smallest. On tracing this

line towards the shell we find that it runs into as were,
                                                it,

                                                      a it
and forms, instead of one line, two by which means very
                                          is ;
thin ring formed, and this ring also found to run com
is a
        is                                                  of
                 is

                                 a
                                      is
pletely round the limb, being marked externally by means

thin band of small scattered hairs. By dissection this line

can be traced into the substance of the organ of reproduction,

and found in this way to be the exact spot where the limb

     generally thrown off. Through the long axis of this, and

near to one edge, small foramen exists for the transmission

of the bloodvessels and nerve. The microscopic structurea

this gland or organ                                    of
                                          extremely beautiful. When thin

               REPRODUCTION OF PARTS IN CRUSTACEA.             473

transverse section is made, and placed under the microscope,

it is found to present the following appearances :-- The

foramen, for the transmission of the vessels and nerves, which

was distinctly seen with the naked eye, is obscured on

account of the pressure arising from the glass plates, but its
situation can be still distinctly made out near to one edge
of the section, and also within a thick fibrous-looking band,

which, when traced, is found to surround a considerable

extent of surface. The space contained within this band is

also found upon examination to be much more transparent

               it,

                             a
than that beyond and to contain numerous small cells, all

of which have nuclei or nucleoli within them. These cells

appear to be suspended in thickish transparent liquid. The

thick fibrous band, mentioned above, composed of greatis
                                                            a

many fibres, all of which run almost parallel to one another.

Beyond this band, and occupying the remaining space between

and the shell, lies confused mass of large primitive cells
it             a

            ;or blastema. The shell membrane, covered by the shell,
encircles this, -- thus the whole structure of the leg at this

part consists of, 1st, the foramen for the transmission of the

vessels and nerves the fibrous band, with the semi-liquid
               ;
                                   ;
mass containing small cells the blastema of larger nucleated

cells and, lastly, the shell membrane, covered by the shell.

    In reference to the fibrous band here mentioned, farther

observations have proved  it          to belong to very peculiar
                                                         a

system of vessels, which are very generally distributed

throughout the body of the animal. They ramify very freely

over the membrane lining the carapace, throughout the ovaries,

liver, intestinal canal, and on the bloodvessels of the organs

of locomotion. In the latter, they are arranged at regular
intervals, and run parallel to one another. They run in this
manner, until that part of the leg reached about half an

inch beyond the reproductive gland, when they terminate by
                                      I
means of blind extremities.                      is
                                      have not yet made out the

474  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

exact relative anatomy of this very peculiar system of vessels.
or in what manner those running in the longitudinal direction
of the leg are connected with the circular one which sur-
rounds the foramen at the point of fracture, but immediately
after the animal has thrown off the injured limb, the raw
surface becomes covered with these vessels. Before the

separation, the vessels had been partially empty ; but imme

diately on the separation taking place, they became so

distended as to become visible to the naked eye. In all the

observations made, it was generally found that these vessels

presented a radiated appearance on the newly made surface,
running from the circumference to the circular one sur
rounding the situation of the germ. The greater number also

appeared to terminate at the circumference by means of

blind extremities. A dark circular disc was seen at the

extremity of many of these cul-de-sacs, which had all the
appearance of a germinal spot. When these vessels were
first seen, they were thought to be connected with the re
productive gland alone, but after further observations, this

appeared to be incorrect; and, as already mentioned, theii

relations are so extensive and complicated as to require much

Imore time for their elucidation than have had since they

came under my observation. It is evident, however, they

perform some important function in the economy of the
animal, but whether it is connected with the reproduction of
lost parts or not, is a question to be decided by future obser

vation.

     Immediately on the limb being thrown off, a quantity of
blood escapes, which is soon stopped by the retraction of the
vessels. After this takes place, we see the small open foramen
for the passage of the artery and nerve, which becomes closed
almost immediately by means of a slight film which spreads
over the whole of the exposed surface. When this surface is

examined some hours after the loss, we find that the small

REPRODUCTION OF PARTS IN CRUSTACEA.              475

cavity of the foramen is slightly filled up with a body resem

bling a nucleated cell. This cell is the germ of the future
leg, and very shortly increases in size, so as gradually to push

out the film alluded to above, which is now become a thick

strong cicatrix. During the time that this is going on, the

whole of the exposed surface had become tense and bulging,

but this gradually decreases round the circumference as the

central nucleus increases in size, which it does at first longi

tudinally, and then transversely. As it increases in size, the

cicatrix, which still surrounds it as a sac, becomes thinner and

thinner, until it bursts, when the limb, which has hitherto

been bent upon itself, becomes stretched out, and has all the

appearance of a perfect limb, except in size.
     In the lower crustacea, and even in the lower Macroura,

we find the power of regeneration more extended ;-- a limb

broken off at any part of its phalanges will grow. The mode

of reproduction in the lobster is peculiar, and differs from the

higher Crustacea. Instead of the young limb being folded

upon itself, as we found it in the Brachyura, it is quite

extended, although apparently enclosed in a sac.
    As far as my observations have yet gone, it appears to me

that the germinal cell is derived from one of those which are

nearest the central opening on the raw surface. This cell,

following the ordinary course of development, by the nucleus

breaking up into nucleoli, which in time become parent cells,

each of which again undergo the same process. This proceeds

for several stages, all the less important cells dissolving and

serving as nourishment to the central or more important ones,

until the number of centres are reduced to five, the number of

joints required, which, by a constant process of a similar nature,

assume the form of the future leg.  H. D. S. G.

476  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

XXXIII.-- OF THE ANATOMY AND DEVELOPMENT
OF THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA*-- (Plates VI. X. XL XII.)

     I. --OF THE ACEPHALOCYST.

The acephalocyst, or simple hydatid, consists of a vesicle com
posed of several membranes containing a quantity of fluid, in
which the young hydatids float, and from which they ap

parently derive nourishment.
     Although found in all parts of the body, these animals are

nevertheless more strictly confined to the liver, which appears
to be their natural habitat.

    In examining an acephalocyst from without inwards, there

is met with, first, the natural tissues of the infested being

slightly condensed, the condensation being greatest near the

hydatid, and becoming gradually less as the distance increases.

The next part met with in the dissection inwards, is a strong

fibrous membrane, of considerable thickness, with numerous

bloodvessels. This forms a sac for the hydatid. During tie

earlier stages of growth, hardly a vestige of this can be seen ;

for being formed of the condensed tissues of the infested

animal, it becomes perceptible only after the parasite has
Itattained some size.
                       is highly vascular, and forms a cushion,
to which the external surface of the hydatid is applied. I"

tins way, a steady supply of the blood, or of debris of the

textures of the infested animal, is close at hand, from which

the hydatid may extract nourishment. This membrane is

best seen in aged hydatids, or in those in which the process

     * Read before the York Meeting of the British Association, 1844.

YolJT       Plai, X

v--ixs:.;:


                     THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.           477

of obliteration has commenced, and in such can easily be de

monstrated by dissection. In such aged individuals also it is

found to be so intimately attached to the external membrane

of the hydatid, as to appear to form one membrane with it ;

whereas in younger individuals a considerable space inter

venes.

The external coat of the hydatid is gelatinous and slightly

fibrous in appearance, and presents no structure.

The middle membrane appears to be of the nature of a

germinal membrane, is much thinner, and more delicate than

the external membrane. In this membrane numerous cells,

in various stages of growth, take their rise, and project inwards

into the cavity of the hydatid, carrying the next membrane

along with them.

     The internal membrane does not appear to be continuous
over the whole internal surface ; but observed only where it

is reflected, as has been just stated, over the surface of the

germinal cells. It may, therefore, be considered as that por

tion of the middle or germinal membrane which has been

carried inwards by the rise of the germinal cells in the sub

stance of the former membrane.

    A small clear cell or vesicle, jutting from the internal

surface of the second membrane, is the first vestige of the

young hydatid. At first this vesicle is colourless, but as it

increases slightly in size, it becomes opaque, and also carries

        a

                  it
                                                   it,

                                                                        it
                                                                         it
the internal membrane inwards before which in time, as

the young hydatid becomes more pedunculated before becoming

free, almost covers  entirely. Vestiges of this membrane

may be seen attached in shreds to the vesicle, even after

has attained considerable size.

    In all the hydatids which have already become independent

animals, with their external coat still gelatinous, and are still

enclosed within the cyst of the original acephalocyst, may

be observed that one side presents shreds of membrane

478         ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

attached to it ; but that the other is quite free and almost
transparent. This transparent part was that originally
attached to the parent or germinal membrane ; and the shreds

are consequently the remains of the internal membrane of the

parent. Shortly before the young hydatid separates from theit,
germinal membrane of the parent, smaller cells are seen with
in which increase in size along with it. These are another
generation of hydatids, and the fourth in the series have
                                            I
been describing.                                       is I
     About this period in the process of development, there may
                                                                I to a
be seen in some forms of hydatids of the tertiary growth,

dark irregular flat nucleated spot, which always occupies the
same place, immediately opposite that of attachment. This

spot visible only before the separation.    am inclined
     is is
consider this spot as the first appearance of the pedicle, or

what generally termed head in the class. This species
                     ;
denominate AcephcUocystis armatus. This appearance merely
the nucleus or central cell, from which all the others are proa
                                         a
duced thus illustrating that the pedicles of Caenurus and
     ;

Cysticercus are analogous to this nucleus, both being repro
ductive organs --in the acephalocyst being
                                            reproductive
                                            a
                                                         a
                                                                    of
organ only, in Caenurus and Cysticercus being chiefly repro

ductive organ with slight adaptation for the purposes

prehension.

   If the small cells which are seen in the tertiary hydatids

are the young, they must be the first of those which are after

wards seen attached to the germinal membrane, for have not
                                            it

                                                         aI
met with secondary hydatids enclosing separated young indi

viduals. It only after the hydatid has obtained nidus, or
     if
separate habitat of its own, that begins to throw off its
                 is
young from the germinal membrane, and those only which

had been formed during the tertiary and secondary periods.
Thus, the original hydatid buried deep in the textures
                                            is
                                                                 is

                                                                                                     of
the infested being, or from other causes    prevented giving

THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.               479

exit to its young (for it is by the dilatation caused by the
young within it that the parent sac gives way), it soon becomes

unable to extract proper nourishment from the infested being,

the young within it become decomposed, and the whole animal

degenerates either into a firm cicatrix, or, as is most general,
Iinto a fatty cretaceous matter.
                                  have in many instances

found this matter forming upon the external coats of young

secondary hydatids, which were confined, as above stated, in

old and degenerating parent sacs. In general this cretaceous

matter originates in the internal and germinal membrane of

the parent sac ; these two membranes in old hydatids being

always thick, gelatinous, and homogeneous, like pure gelatine.

This thick gelatinous membrane presents no trace of the two

membranes of which it originally consisted ; it is generally

about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and lies in the most

dependent part of the cavity, quite loose and detached from

the external coat It presents no trace of young vesicles or

hydatids, but has upon its internal surface a number of white,

opaque, fatty looking spots of all sizes. Similar spots, but of

much smaller size, are also to be seen in the substance of the

membrane, and when examined by the microscope, present a

peculiar cellular network. As these spots become larger, they,

from being quite smooth, become rough and nodulated, each

of the cells being apparently filled with the peculiar fatty

substance. As this mass increases in size, it becomes more

cretaceous, and sends out branches in all directions, so as in

time to fill the whole cavity of the hydatid, which, as this
process is going on, shrinks up very much, so that it meets

the fatty matter, and enables the process of filling up to be

more speedily completed. Shortly before the cavity is com

pletely filled up, the fatty matter begins to lessen in quantity,

being probably absorbed by the cretaceous matter gaining the

preponderance. In this way more or less of the whole mass

is absorbed, so that ultimately nothing is left but a small

480  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

quantity of cretaceous matter which becomes very much

condensed.

     The middle membrane then appears to play the most im
portant part in the economy of the hydatid ; the external
membrane acting only as an organ of defence.

     Of this peculiar form of animal three species have been
determined, the characters of which are derived from the
structure and appearance of the germinal membrane. In
Acephalocystis simplex, the lowest of these forms, the whole
structure of the animal is much more homogeneous, trans
parent, and gelatinous, than that of the two higher forms ; the
cyst is not divided into separate parts, and the young are
developed promiscuously throughout its internal surface.

     In Acephalocystis armatus, the young are developed from
a true germinal membrane, each of the young arising as a
separate cell, and afterwards throwing off internally successive

broods of young independently. It is also distinguished from

the other species by the teeth which it possesses during the
period of its attachment to the parent germinal membrane
These teeth are generally exactly opposite the spot of attach

ment, are quite straight, barbless, and form an irregular
circlet, somewhat similar to that of Caenurus and Cysticercus.
They are lost as soon as the animal leaves the germinal
membrane and becomes free, and not the slightest vestige of
them can be seen, even upon the shreds of membrane alluded
to above, which at one period formed the internal membrane
of the parent sac.

    In the Medical Gazette for Nov. 22, 1844, p. 268, there is

an abstract of a paper read before the Eoyal Medical and
Chirurgical Society of London, by Erasmus Wilson, on the
" Classification, etc., of Echinococcus hominis." There can be no

doubt that the Echinococcus here described by Mr. Wilson,

and the Acephalocystis armatus, are both one and the same
species. The bodies described by Mr. Wilson as the

THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.                 481

eehinococci, and which are attached to the internal surface of

the membrane, are merely the young acephalocysts either of
the secondary or tertiary stages of development. They will
be, as already fully described in this paper, of the secondary

generation, if found growing from the walls of the original
containing sac, and tertiary if found growing from the walls

of those sacs floating free in the fluid contained within the

original sac. This animal is an acephalocyst, and not an

echinococcus. Bremser, in the atlas of his work, On the

Intestinal Worms of Man, calls it an echinococcus, but upon
false grounds, for the proper definition of echinococcus, he
says, at p. 294 of his work alluded to :*-- "M. Eudolphi dis
tingue les hydatides en vivantes et en non vivantes ; il regarde

l'echinocoque provenant des intestins des bisulques (Echi
nococcus velerinorum) comme une hydatide vivante, par la
raison que Ton trouve dans le liquide qu'elle contient les ec-

hinocoques, proprement dits, c'est-a-dire, des petits corps mi-

croscopiques, pourvus de quatre sucoirs et d'une couronne de

crochets." The animal described by Mr. Wilson is also
referred to in the same abstract by Dr. Budd, " who examined

seven hydatid tumours which had been for many years in the

Museum of King's College," when he found appearances

exactly similar to those described by Mr. Wilson. It is more

than probable that the animals here alluded to by Dr. Budd

Iare similar to that have called Acephalocystis armatus, which,

if the case, from the want of suckers, cannot be an Echi

nococcus, being merely a transitory stage of the acephalocyst.

IFor have examined great numbers of these animals, pre

served in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons in
Edinburgh -- a collection particularly rich in preparations of

Ithese animals -- and in no instance have been able to make

* Traiti Zoologique et Physiologiquc mr Us Vers hiicstinaux de THmnme,

par M. Bremser. Traduit de l'Allemand par M. Grundler. Revu et augmente

do Notes par M. de Blainville.  2i

482  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

Iout the slightest vestige of suckers.  had made out the

existence of teeth, and was anxious to determine whether or

not the animal was allied to the cephaloid hydatids.

     The next form of Acephalocystis is one presenting a

structure peculiar to itself, and which at once distinguishes it

from the others. The external membrane is gelatinous and

delicate ; the germinal one is more fibrous, and is so slightly
attached to the external one as to float in the contained fluid.

When a small portion of this germinal membrane is placed

under the microscope, its free or internal surface presents the

following appearances :-- 1st, A fibrous texture forming the

basis of the membrane ; 2d, A series of large irregular ovoid

vesicles, arranged in irregular rows. The fibrous texture sur

rounds the vesicles, and thus presents a peculiar appearance

of ramification of a very regular form. Each of the vesicles
contains one or more dark spots containing nucleoli --these

spots are the young hydatids.*

                    ii. --of astoma.-- (Plate XI.)

     Adoma acephalocystis is an animal very nearly allied to

Acephalocystis.f It was found attached to the peritoneum

of an old subject, generally by means of a broad basis, but
very often by a slender pedicle. The sac, composed of three
membrar es, of more or less delicacy, was very strong, and the
membranes were easily separable from one another. They
were all more or less composed of fibrous texture, and, as in
the Acephalocystis, the external appeared to serve as a means
of defenci , while the two inner were devoted to nutrition and

   I* This species have named Acephalocystis Monroii, after Dr. Monro, to
Iwhom am indebted for the opportunity of examining the species, and from
whom also I .have received much valuable information regarding hydatids

generally. A very beautiful figure of A. Monroii is given in Dr. Monro's wort
on The Morbid -Anatomy of the. Stomach and Gullet.

   t Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, No. clxi., p. 14.

VoUt            PlattXI

RT>S GoeZrtrBX


THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.                                                               483

generation. The young cells, after acting for a time as the
organs of nutrition, become free and independent animals after
having thrown off young cells internally, which in their turn
act as organs of nutrition to their parent until they are fit to

become independent animals themselves. The particulars
relative to the peculiar mode of development of this -nimal

will be adverted to more at length when we come to treat of
that function in Diskostoina ; in the meantime a few remarks

on the external character of the animal may be useful.

    It was of a greenish yellow colour when taken from its

habitat, and varied in size from a millet seed to that of a
middle-sized orange. The smaller specimens were all spheri

cal, and very much corrugated ; the larger were quite smooth

and botiyoidal -- the first of which appearances arose apparently

from the distension caused by the young ; the second, from
the young within it increasing irregularly in size. When a
section was made of an adult specimen, the interior was found
to consist of an immense number of young in various stages
of advancement, and all of them apparently having their

origin from the inclosing sac, either immediately or mediately.
Along with these the interstices contained a great quantity of
gelatinous matter, which appeared to be the assimilated food,
analogous to the pabulum of the seminal cells already spoken
of in another paper.

III. --OF DISKOSTOMA.* -- (PLATE XI.)

Diskostoma acephalocystis is another animal belonging to

the Cystic Entozoa, and very similar in many respects to the

preceding genera ; it   however, more complicated in its
a
           is,structure than either.

                                                                        p.
Diskostoma was met with in great numbers in the peri

toneal cavity of middle-aged man. About six or eight

* Transactions oj the Royal Society, Edinburgh, vol. xv.,                   564.

484  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

gallons were taken out of the abdomen after death, all of
which had been apparently generated in the course of a few
months. * Like Astoma they varied very much in size, bui,
with very few exceptions, were all regularly globular and of
a bright straw colour, hanging, when undisturbed, from the
surface of the abdominal cavity like the ova in the active
ovarium of the common fowl. The sac consisted of two de

monstrable membranes, the most external of which was rather

complicated.
     The basis of the membrane itself was fibro-gelatinous, and

having a number of discs scattered at irregular intervals over
its surface ; these discs were connected with one another by
means of numerous tubuli, which also ramified freely through
the membrane. These were probably the organs of nutrition.

The next membrane was much more delicate, and was thai

from which the gemmules arose. In some instances there
was the appearance of a third membrane, but it was most

difficult of detection. The greater mass of the body was com
posed of the gelatinous matter already alluded to as occurring
in Astoma.

     The function of generation in all these lower Acephalocysts
is very interesting. In all of them the young cells or gem-
mules arise frdm the middle membrane of the sac. In Ace-

phalocystis and Astoma the young cells act at first as organs
af nutrition, and after a time become themselves independent
animals. This is probably the case in Diskostoma also, but

it could not be determined with certainty. The mode of de
velopment of the young in Astoma and Diskostoma is some
what different from that already described as taking place in
Acephalocystis. There appear to be two modes of generation,
namely, one for the enlargement of the original group, and
another for the formation of new groups in other parts of the
peritoneum. The first of these modes proceeds in the Astoma,

    * See Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for October 1814, p. 1.

                                THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.                485

is isfrom the animal becoming so distended, in consequence ofa     it,
     the increased size and number of the young within thatis
     bursts when the young are exposed, and the parent sac, which           it a it
                             a
        now useless, absorbed, the progeny in the meantime becom
     ing attached to the peritoneum* The external membranes inifit
     Diskostoma spread over the, as yet, uninfested portions of theit
     peritoneum, and give origin to number of cells from thea
     attached surface, each of which, becoming parents, graduallya;
     increases in size, from the addition of new matter within the
                                                                   is
     young cells. These young cells are the germs of the future
     animals. The other mode of development, or that intended
     for the formation of new groups, similar in both animals.
     The young or secondary cells, bursting from their formative
     cell, by some means escape from the parent sac, and so gain
     situation at some distance from the original group, where they
     become attached, in time throw off young cells, and thus be
     come the origin of new set.

          Relative to the mode of reproduction in these animals,
        found that in Astoma, and the higher cystic entozoa, the
     numbers proceeding from one parent may be unbmited,
     whereas in Acephalocystis, generation ceases with the quater
     nary series of young, unless this series, or the gemmules of
     some of the preceding, escape from the original sac and are
     able to form nidus in any portion of the liver, or other
     organ yet uninfested. For appears necessary to the exist
     ence of the common hydatid that be completely enveloped
     in the tissues of the infested being. To ensure this normal
     habitat, then, the animal must escape during the period of its

     gemmule existence from the parent but, as most generally
     happens, the parent hydatid be so deeply buried as not to
     allow free rupture of its coats within certain period, decom

     position ensues as already described, and so existence

          * See Preparation  in Museum  of  Royal College  of  Surgeons, Edinburgh,
     No. 2244.

486   ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

terminated ;-- on the contrary, the parent hydatid be so
near surface, or from other causes, as during its increase in
     a
                     if,

                                                                                      a is
size to rupture, then the young escape, and so form new and

altogether independent animals. As the hydatid                                              by no

means of unfrequent occurrence in the liver and other internal

organs, this limitation of the increase appears to be benefi

cent law of nature, for the purpose of preventing the fatal

termination which the rapid increase of these animals would

infallibly produce. In Diskostoma we have an instance of

this rapidity of reproduction, which happily appears to be of

rare occurrence.

    It may be well to state here also the opinions to be deduced

from the changes which take place in the germinal membrane
Itof Acephalocystis, and the other acephalic entozoa.
                                                                                            has

been already fully described in what manner the function of

reproduction in these animals                   stopped, namely, in con
                                     I
                                            is
sequence of the thickening of the germinal membrane. After

having made out this fact, was led to infer that many

instances of the stoppage of cellular formations at certain

periods of life might be traced to similar changes taking

place in the germinal membrane of the formative organ, and,

with the view of determining this point, examined the testes of

several old men, after the fecundating power had in all

probability passed away, when the germinal membrane in

almost all cases had become thicker and quite different from

what  generally seen in young males, change which (as
*

      is
                                          it

                                                                     a

                                                                          a
we have attempted to describe) had taken place in the

germinal membrane of hydatids.*

     The stoppage here alluded to, in the function of reproduction of these

animals, may be also greatly assisted, and the degenerating process made more

active, in consequence of the thickening of the external membrane preventing

the absorbing cells extracting from  sufficient supply of nourishment.


YolM  Piatt M

THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.  487

           iv. --of sphairidion.*-- (Plate VI., Fig. 1G.)

     Sphairidion acephalocystis is an animal allied to Acephalo-
cystis, chiefly from its acephalic character, but also from its
reproductive organ being enclosed within the centre of its sac.
This reproductive body or membrane is exactly similar to
the pedicle of the Cysticercus, with the exception of its being
entirely buried in the body of the animal, consequently also
it is neither furnished with teeth nor suckers. There is no
separate absorbent apparatus in the sac of the animal, and
this part of its body appears to be composed of one membrane
only, which is analogous to the external membrane of the
sac of Acephalocystis. The cyst of this animal at first
appears .to be composed of three membranes, but a little
examination proves the outermost to consist of peritoneum
only, the two others being similar to the analogous membranes
of the cyst of Cysticercus rattus, namely, an external for
defence, and an internal for absorption of nourishment.

     This animal was found attached to the intestines of the
Balearic Crested Crane (Balearica pavonia, Vigors) beneath
the peritoneum.

             V.-- OF OENTJRUS.t-- (PLATES VI., XII.)

    The next animal we have to describe is Cainurus. It is

in the species belonging to this genus that the first vestiges
of extremities are perceived, to which form of structure we

are led through Diskostoma --the discs described in the latter

being without doubt analogous to the pedicles of the

Caenurus.

      Ccenurus cerebralis, an animal frequently found in the
brain of the sheep and other ruminants, has been long known

      * SipaiplSiov, a globule.

    t Transactions of the Royal Society, Edinburgh, vol. xv. p. 564.

488  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

to naturalists. This animal is composed of a double sac
from the external surface of which proceed a number of small

bodies, termed pedicles. These pedicles are contained between
the two membranes of the sac, project at right angles from
its surface, and are armed at the extremity with a double
circle of teeth.

      The sac of the Crenurus is composed of two membranes,
the outermost of which acts as an organ of defence, the
internal, containing a layer of absorbent cells, acts along with
the larger cells contained in the pedicles as organs of
nutrition. The natural size of a pedicle is about the one-

eighth of an inch in length. It is divided into two parts, the

basal and distal. The former contains the absorbing cells
already spoken of, which, after a time, become themselves
independent pedicles. The cells within the pedicle are
arranged regularly in the form of concentric circles, each cell
as it becomes a parent forming a centre. The latter, or distal

portion of the pedicle, contains very few, if any, of these

cells, but bears on its extremity a double series of bent
barbed teeth, which enable the animal to attach itself firmly
to the infested body. Four suckers are also placed at regular
intervals round the sides of this portion of the pedicle.

      When one of the smaller cells escape from the pedicles
and obtains a situation between the layers of the parent sac,
it shortly commences to take on a new action, the nucleus
enlarges and presents a clear spot in the centre. As this
spot increases in size, the nucleus becomes irregular on its
edges, and shortly becomes nodulated, the nodules after a
time are thrown off as separate cells, a central cell occupying
the place of the clear central spot.*

     This is the termination of the first stage of the develop

     * The great similarity which exists between the development of this animal
ami the maminilerous ovum, as described by Dr. Martin Barry, will lie
noticed by all observers.

THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.  489

ment of the ovum, after which the nucleus of the central cell

undergoes a similar process, the cells proceeding from it

pushing out nearer to the circumference those of the previous
generation. Thus we have a great series of centres, round

Iwhich all the other cells are arranged in circles. This have

termed the discoidal period of development.
     After numerous circles have been thus formed, the cells

nearest the circumference, and, of course, those first formed,

become parents, and consequently centres ; but a few of these

gaining the advantage, dissolve the more peripheral cells and
absorb them, thus becoming principal centres. As soon as
this change in the development has taken place, the mode of

growth, hitherto discoidal, becomes vertical, or at right angles
to the sac, and so proceeds until the pedicle becomes perfect.

     There is still another animal belonging to this series, and

which requires to be noticed in this place. It is nondescript,

and its characters resemble so much both those of Acepha-

Ilocystis and Caenurus that have not yet been able to decide

with precision to which genus it belongs. It has certainly

more of the characters of the Caenurus than Acephalocystis,
although many also connect it most intimately with the

Ilatter. In the meantime, however, have placed it along

with Caenurus, and from its habitat called it C. hepaticus.

In all its more important characters, it is very similar to the

C. cerebralis.

               VI. -- OF CYSTICERCUS. -- (PLATE XII.)

      Cysticercus is distinguished from Caenurus by its sac

having only one pedicle ; it is also always contained in a cyst,
which, in some .cases, is formed from the compressed textures
of the infested animal, while in others it consists of two mem
branes, viz., one similar to that mentioned, and another, sui

generis, and belonging entirely to the parasite. The pedicle
of the Cysticercus is exactly similar in its structure to that of

490        ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

the Crenurus, with the exception of the cells, which are not

arranged so regularly. The sac is also composed of two mem

branes, each having structures exactly similar to that of the

Caenurus.                  animals composing this genus      of
                           in consequence of the difference  of
   I have divided the

Entozoa into two classes,

structures met with in the cyst. Those species, in which the

cyst is only composed of one membrane, derived from the

compressed tissues of the infested being, have been placed

near to the Acephalocysts ; and those in which the cyst con

sists of two membranes already described, compose the other

division.

     The Cysticercus ccllulosus is an example of the first of these

divisions. In this animal the cyst is very vascular, i.e. more

so than the surrounding textures, so that in this respect it is

quite similar to the analogous structure in Acephalocystia
As an example of the animals belonging to this division of the

genus, there is another species which appears to be nonde

script. This Cysticercus was found in the Museum of the

Royal College of Surgeons, but unfortunately the jar was not

Ilabelled, so that am uncertain from what animal it was got.

It is enclosed in a cyst formed by the omentum alone ; these

cysts are pedunculated, and although quite continuous with
the healthy portion of the membrane, it is so puckered and
constricted at the pedunculated portion as to be quite im

permeable, so that the enclosed animal can obtain no nourish

ment from without, except through the portion of omentum

forming the cyst. The cyst is very vascular, and generally

contains a quantity of thin granular looking matter (probably

the matter intended for the food of the enclosed animal). The
double circlet of teeth in this species is remarkable for their

great length. In many specimens which came under my

notice numerous small globular bodies were observed, sur

rounded externally with hooked spines, and attached to the

        THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.                  491

internal surface of the cyst, apparently by means of the spines.

These bodies, although the intermediate stages between them

Iand the young gemmules could not be seen, considered to be
Iyoung Cysticerci in an advanced stage of growth, and was

led to do so because they were often observed on the free

surface of the omentum, attracting and puckering it together

in folds, evidently the commencement of the process for the

formation of a cyst, and in many instances they had completely

enveloped themselves. It has not yet been decidedly made

out in what manner the gemmules escape from the body of
Ithe Cysticercus, but from the observations
                                             have made, it

appears that they must first escape from the pedicle where

they are formed into the sac, and then from the sac to the
Icyst.
        am led to this supposition in consequence of having

observed on several occasions the sac of the animal ruptured,

and great numbers of the globular spined bodies attached to

the inner surface of the cyst. How they escape from the cyst

I have not been able to determine.

Those Cysticerci having the cyst composed of a double

membrane, do not differ in any other particular from those of

the preceding division of the genus. The best example of this

peculiarity of structure exists in a species found in the liver

Iof the rat, and which have denominated Cysticercus rattus.

The specific characters are given in the synopsis at the end of

the paper.

    In all the details, then, we find a great similarity between

Camurus and Cysticercus, with this exception, that the latter

is simple, whereas the former, like all the other Acephalocysts,

is a compound animal. Why the pedicles of Caenurus should

all become attached to the same sac, is a fact, the cause of

which it will be impossible to determine with any degree of

certainty ; probably, however, it arises from the difference of

strength in the sacs of the two animals ; the greater strength

of that of Caenurus preventing the escape of the young gem

492 ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

mule from between its membranes.  The mode of formation

of the sac is also a point interesting to the physiologist, and

one deserving consideration. In Acephalocystis and the other

allied genera, the original gemmule, shortly after it has become

an independent animal, begins to swell out and be distended
from the accumulation of new matter within it. This new

matter is drawn into it by means of the young internal cells
which have just been formed, and which have a power, in
herent in themselves, of attracting and assimilating nourish

ment from without. The cells referred to here are the young

germs of future hydatids, and which afterwards, as already

explained, become independent animals ; but, at the same
time, there is in many cases also another series of cells, whose
only function is to act in this way, and throughout the term of

their existence : these have been termed absorbent cells.
Now, these cells drawing in the nourishment in this way

cause the expansion of the original cell-wall, so that the en
largement of these bodies resembles a process of dilatation.

This, then, appears to be the explanation of the peculiar forms

assumed by the Caenurus and Cysticercus, as well as the
different species of acephalocysts ; that it is so can be proved

from Sphairidion acephalocystis, an animal very nearly allied
to Camurus, and being a connecting link between the acephalic

and cephalic hydatids ; for in this animal we find that portion

of its body analogous to the pedicle of Cysticercus, not exserted,

as in the latter animal, but situated in the centre of the body,
where it forms the attracting point for the nourishment

absorbed, which accordingly dilates the external and con

taining sac.                                                             that the sacs of

   IWhat wish to be inferred from this
;

                                                                    is,
Acephalocystis, Caeiiurus, and Cysticercus, are analogous

organs and that the pedicles of these two latter animals are

analogous to the reproductive nucleus, which may be observed

during certain early stages of the development of Acephalo

THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.  493

cystis, as well as the reproductive and absorbing nucleus of

Sphairidion.
     Species of Cysticercus have been found in almost every

part and cavity of the human body. In the brain, eye, lungs,
liver, in the walls of the intestines, and in the muscles. In
the present state of our knowledge, it is impossible to say

how these animals gain such habitats as the eye, etc. This
is a question, however, which has been the cause of much

discussion.

               VII. -- OF THE HIGHER CYSTIC ENTOZOA.

      Besides those already described, there are many other forms
of entozoa of the higher orders, which are inhabitants of cysts
similar to these of Cysticercus ; we have examples of this
occurring in the Nematoidea, Cestoidea, and Acanthaccphala,

etc. As examples of the worms alluded to, I may instance

Trichina spiralis, Gymnorhynchus horridus, and a small filaria
inhabiting the livers of some fish, but, as far as can be made
out, not hitherto described by any author. As another ex
ample, too, of these peculiar forms, may be mentioned, a very
interesting animal which.will be afterwards described, namely,
Ncuronaia Monroii.

     The cysts of all these worms have similar structures to
those of Cysticercus, namely, an external membrane composed
of compressed cellular texture, and an internal membrane con
taining absorbing cells, through which the contained animal

obtains nourishment.

    In the descriptions of the Acephalocysts already given, it
will be remembered how the animal died in consequence of

the thickening and hardening of the external membrane of the

cyst, preventing the absorption of nourishment from or through

it ; so in like manner do these higher Cystic Entozoa --Trichina
--die from a similar cause. In many cases where the subject

is infested with Trichina, it is found on examination, that with

494  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

few exceptions almost every specimen is converted into the
hard cretaceous matter spoken of ; many, at the same time,
presenting all the intermediate stages of decay. Gymno-
rhynchus presents us with a very curious habit dependant
upon this mode of structure, and which enables the animal to
avoid the death from which all its co-geners suffer. This

Ispecies, which have fortunately had an, opportunity of ex

amining in its natural habitat, but which has been already
described by my brother (Edinburgh Philosophical Journal,
vol. 31), inhabits the liver of the sun-fish iu great numbers,

and from its peculiar structure is enabled to move slowly

through the organ it infests. If the cyst of this worm is

carefully examined, it will be found that the inner membrane,
containing the absorbent cells, is covered anteriorly with a very
thin layer only of the external membrane, so that it is enabled
to absorb the nourishment from the external textures in great
abundance, which thus enables the animal to move forward as
well as obtain a supply of food ; as we trace the cyst back
wards, the external membrane will be found to become thicker

and thicker, as also more impermeable, until we reach the tail
of the animal, after which it becomes a mere cord. This cord

can be traced for a great distance, becoming less and less per

ceptible, until it is lost altogether, and the course only marked
by a simple line of a darker colour than the rest of the textures.

It will be observed that the external membrane of this animal

presents analogies similar to that of Acephalocystis ; for in
stance, the cephalic portion of the membrane is so thin as to

be hardly distinguishable, being thus analogous to the young

hydatid.

    In regard to the cyst of these worms, it has been long a

question how far it is a part of the enclosed animal Professor
Owen* holds that it is merely condensed textures of the

     * Owen, "Description of a Microscopic Eutozoon infesting the Muscles of
the Human Body." -- Transactions of the Zoological Society, vol. i. p. 322.

              THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.                          495

infested being, and Dr. Knox* again, that it belongs essentially
to the parasite. My brother, in the paper already alluded to,
says, regarding the cyst -- " May we not suppose them to be
parts of the original ovum, within which the animal was formed,
and within which it passes its term of existence." From ob

servations made on the development of the Acephalocystic

Ientozoa, it may be safely stated, think, that the above state

ment is correct, for Acephalocystis must be considered as an
enlarged ovum ; but Sphairidion perhaps is the best example
of this peculiar mode of formation, the "inserted pedicle" being
analogous to the confined Trichina or Gymnorhynchus -- for
we must look upon the inserted pedicle as the active animal.

In Cffinurus, also, the pedicles are contained within the ex

ternal membrane of the sac.

   I shall finish these observations on the Cystic Entozoa,

with the following account by my brother John, of Ncuronaia

Mowroiui (Plate VI., Fig. 7 ; Plate XI, Figs. 2,
                                               '
" The observations of Pacini on the peculiar bodies which
              I                                      7.)I
                       '
                                     \
are appended to the digital nerves, induced me to direct my

attention to the spheroidal bodies,' described by the second

Monro, as existing on the surfaces of the brain and nerves of

the gadidae.  accordingly examined the spheroidal bodies                      p. 'I

in the haddock, and found that they were entozoa, referrible

to the family Distoma, and enclosed in cysts.              described

these curious parasites at meeting of the Anatomical and
p.J
                                               short abstract was published
 t

      J.

                 I

                                       of a a
Pathological Society, and

in the Monthly Journal                       Medical Science. Till lately,

had supposed that was the first to observe the true nature

     * Knox, Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal.of
        Monro, Observations on the Structure and functions the Nervous System,

     59.

        Pacini, Nuovo Giornale dri Zetterate, March and April 1836,
109. Henle and Kolliker, Uebcr die Pacinischen Kurj,erchcn an den
Nerrcn des Menschen und der Sdugethicrc.

496  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

of these 'spheroidal bodies,' when Dr. Allen Thomson

ascertained that Dr. Sharpey was in the habit of mentioning
Ithem in his courses of lectures in the University College.
Iaccordingly wrote Dr. Sharpey on the subject, and
                                                    arn

indebted to that gentleman for the following interesting

accounts of what has been already recorded regarding this
entozoon :--

   I" When was in Berlin some years ago, the late Professor

Eudolphi remarked to me in conversation, that he thought it

not unlikely the little bodies discovered by Dr. Monro 2d, on

the nerves of the cod, haddock, and other allied fish, would

turn out on examination to be entozoa ; and he suggested

Ithat should take an opportunity of inquiring into the point

Ion my return to Scotland. Accordingly, in the autumn of

1836, 1 examined these bodies in the haddock or whiting,

Ireally forget which, but think it was the former, and found

that each of them was a little cyst, containing a Distoma,

which could be easily turned out from its enclosure alive.

IThe specimens examined were from the membranes of the

brain.
     " This observation was made in Edinburgh, and on going

Ito London soon after, mentioned the fact to Mr. Owen ; and
I have been accustomed to take notice of it in my lectures

ever since, suggesting at the same time that it would be well

to search for them, or for analogous parasites, in the nerves

of other animals, as it was not likely that thegadus tribe of

fishes should be the only example. Indeed, unless my me

mory deceives me, some one has met with something of the

same kind in the nerves of the frog ; and Valentin has seen

the eggs of Distoma in the vertebral canal of a fcetal sheep.

IWhen learned that the oval bodies, which all must have

seen in the cellular tissue of the palm of the hand and fingers,
Iwere connected with the nerves,
                                  at first imagined they

                   THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.                497

might be entozoa (having been led to make just the converse

of your conjecture), but Mr. Marshall, formerly of our mu
seum, having examined these ' Pacinian ' bodies two or three

years ago (quite independently of any suggestion from me),
I found nothing to confirm this conjecture on his showing me
Itheir structure.
                   have since seen Henle and Kolliker's me

moir, which includes the substance of Pacini's observations.

   I" Kudolphi, as far as know, never examined the structure

of the spheroidal bodies of Monro ; and the only notice of

Ithem which have met with in his writings (to which he did

not refer me) is in his Historia Naturalis Entozoarum, vol. ii.
part ii. page 277, when, under the head of ' Dubious Entozoa,'

he enumerates an object described and figured by Eathke,
under the name of ' Hydatula Gadorum,' which that observer

found in the pia mater of the Gadus morrhua and G. virens,

often in great numbers, and which appeared to be a vesicle

containing a worm. The nature of the parasite was doubtful,

but supposed in some degree to resemble that of a Cysticercus,

and hence the name applied to it by Eathke, but Eudolphi
denies that it is a Cysticercus, though he does not know to

what genus to refer he adds an Cucullanus?'"
                   it,
                                   '
                                                  is
This entozoon, as stated by Monro, found in great num

bers in the gelatinous substance which surrounds the brain,

spinal cord, and semicircular canals, in the cod, haddock, and

whiting. They are also very numerous in the larger branches

of the nerves, and particularly on those of the pectoral and

caudal fins. In the former situation they are suspended in

the gelatinous fluid by fibres of areolar texture and by blood
vessels in the latter they lie embedded in the substance of
;

                                          2

                                                                 ;

                                                                        a

                                                                                                                                         ;
the nerve, the ultimate fibres of which are spread in bundles

over the surface of the cysts.

The cysts are produced spheroids, somewhat flattened

their long axis measures about one-fourth of line.

They consist of three tunics an external, which appears

                                K

498  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

to be derived from the areolar texture of the infested animal,
and of a middle or internal belonging to the parasite.

     Upon the surface, and in the substance of the external
tunic, the bloodvessels of the nerve can occasionally be seen,
and recognised by their contents. One or two vessels may

thus be observed coasting along the cyst, accompanied by
single nerve-tubes, or by bundles of these, or by a mass which
completely incloses and conceals the cyst. The second tunic
is a fine transparent- membrane, which lines the first, and has
in its turn its internal surface covered by an epithelial layer,
which is the third tunic of the cyst. The epithelia are flat,
irregular in shape, and somewhat opaque. The third, or in
ternal layer, formed by them, breaks up under the pressure of
the glass plates, so as to present rents or fissures passing in

various directions over it.

     The cyst, in addition to the worm, contains a small
quantity of fluid, in which oil-like globules of various sizes

float.
     The worm is a Distoma, oblong, dilated in front, tapering

slightly towards its posterior extremity. The mouth, longi
tudinally oval, and rather pointed posteriorly, is surrounded
by the usual suctorial disc. The acetabulum is situated at
the junction of the anterior and middle third of the animal,
and can be protruded from the surface of the body.

      On the anterior edge of the acetabulum a minute pore is
situated, and communicates with a sac, to be afterwards

described.

     At the posterior extremity of the animal another orifice is

placed, which forms the outlet of the large chyle-sac, and
apparently also of another sac, to be afterwards alluded to.

      The integument of the two anterior thirds of the body is
closely covered with short slightly-curved spines, directed

backwards. These spines are largest round the suctoriai
mouth, and on the posterior part of the body are gradually

THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.                                499

replaced by minute tubercles or dots. Under this spiny or

cuticular layer, the integument is muscular, the fibres being

principally transverse, and so arranged that the animal appears

to be made up of a series of rings, as may be observed along

its edges, when examined by transmitted light.

From the anterior extremity to the acetabulum the integu

ments are so opaque, from the dense covering of spines, that
Itthe internal structure of the animal cannot be detected.
                                                            is

probable, however, that the oesophagus terminates, as in the

Ifamily Distoma generally, in two blind intestinal tubes.
Ihave failed in detecting an arrangement of this kind ; but

have observed about the middle of the animal, and along the

sides of its posterior half, a sort of cellular structure, which

may, probably, belong to the digestive system, as in Distoma

clavatum described by Professor Owen*

    A large sac, evidently connected with the digestive system,

opens externally by the minute orifice at the posterior part of

the animal. This sac, in every individual, is full of a matter,

which, by reflected light, is of a chalky whiteness, and de

scribed by Monro, and conjectured by him to be of a cretaceous

nature. Examined by transmitted light, it is seen to consist

of numerous spherical globules of variable size, and resembling

the matter which fills the chyle-cells of the intestinal villi.

The larger sac in which this matter is contained varies in

shape, but it generally passes up from its outlet for about a

third of the length of the body of the animal, then takes an

acute bend to the other side, and passing forwards in a curved
direction, ends in a dilated blind extremity between the

acetabulum and the mouth. It is the " sigmoidal " or " ser

pentine body " of Monro. This sac is evidently the " cisterna

chyli."

   It does not communicate directly with the digestive

    * Owen, "On the Anatomy of Distoma elavatum:"  Trans. Hoy. Soc.

vol. i.

500 ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

system, as in the apparently analogous receptacles in Distoma

Iclavatum, nor, as far as could see, with the vascular system ;
Ihut have seen it discharge its contents by the posterior

orifice, in the manner described by Nordman in Diplostomum

volvcns*

From the movements of the walls of this receptacle, or

from contractions of the animal itself, an active motion of the

particles of its contents is occasionally observed. The move

ments occasionally resemble very much those produced by-
cilia. This sac is apparently a secreting organ, and is pro
bably the only arrangement by which feculent matter is re
moved from the body of the animal. The food of an animal,
living as this does in a cyst, is already digested by the walls

of its cyst. Its food, therefore, yields no mechanical feculent

matter, and its intestinal tube requires no anus. The only

outlet which such an animal requires is for chemical feculent
matter, which in all animals is the product of secretion, and
principally of the lung, gill, or kidney. This sac, may, there

fore, be considered as a respiratory organ or kidney.

     There is another sac, very uniform in shape and size,
situated at the posterior part of the body. This sac is

elongated, extending from near the outlet of the "cisterna

chyli," forward about a fourth of the length of the animal.

Its posterior extremity is funnel-shaped, and appears to me,
Ialthough
           have failed in tracing it distinctly, to open

externally along with the "cisterna chyli." It appears to

possess circular fibres, which constrict it slightly at regular

distances. The three anterior fourths of its wall are so thick

that the cavity appears linear. This thick part of the wall

exhibits an arrangement of fibres or particles perpendicular

to its surface. The thick portion terminates by forming a

curved projection into the thin posterior part of the organ,
the whole arrangement resembling the projection of the

          * Nordman, Micrographische Bdtriige, p. 38, hft. 1.

THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.  501

human os uteri into the vagina. This organ, in its relations
and structure, appears to be the analogue of the cavity
described by Professor Owen, as opening into the posterior
orifice of Distoma clavatum, and supposed by him to be a

respiratory organ.

    A pyriform sac, communicating with the exterior by the

pore in front of the acetabulum, and two large, with occa
sionally two smaller globular masses, would appear to be the
analogues of the reproductive organs. The pyriform sac
always contains highly refractive oil-like globules, but larger
than those in the chyle-receptacle. The two larger globular
masses are very constant, and, as well as the two smaller,
contain a mass of particles apparently nucleated. From the

Itwo larger, have only been able to see faint traces of what

appeared to be ducts passing in the direction of the smaller
masses, and towards the neck of the pyriform sac. Whether

these convoluted bodies be ovaries or convoluted oviducts,

and the pyriform sac a uterus ; or whether the former be
the testes, and the latter the female organ, as in the arrange
ment described in the other Distomas ; or whether they be

Ireproductive organs at all, have failed in satisfying myself,

in consequence of the delicacy of their texture, and the com
paratively dense integument of this part of the animal.

     This Distoma possesses a vascular system forming a net
work throughout the body. The two principal trunks, as in
the other genera, passing along the sides of the body and
being most apparent at its posterior third.

                                         I. ACEPHALOCYSTIS.

[~ Completely buried in the textures of the infested animal ;
young only consisting of three membranes ; adult of four, the
external one belonging originally to the infested being.
Nourished by epithelial cells, which are contained in one of the

502  ANATOMICAL AND PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

membranes composing the sac. Generated by means of cells

arising from a germinal membrane. Internal cavity filled with

a watery fluid.

                 1. --Acephalocystis simplex (Mihi).

     Parent sac quite transparent, with the membranes indivisible and the
germinal cells very minute.

                 2. --Acephalocystis monroii (Mihi).

     Parent sac transparent and gelatinous ; germinal membrane intersected by
membranous bands, which form flattened compartments, in which are large
cells containing unequal numbers of young cells. Each of the young is
marked with one or more dark spots.

                                8. -- Acephalocystis armatus (Mihi).

    Parent sac opaque, membranes distinct, germinal membrane composed of
a soft granular matter, in which the germs arc arranged irregularly ; they are
globular and armed with an irregular circlet of teeth at the part opposite that
of attachment.

                 II. ASTOMA (MIHl).

     Not buried, but attached by means of a pedicle, which
becomes very slender as the animal increases in size. Young,

globular and corrugated ; adult, botryoidal and smooth ; epithe
lial cells; with some appearance of tubuli in external coat.

Young remain and increase in size within the membranes of the
parent, till she bursts, when they become attached to the

peritoneum.

                 4. --Astoma acephalocystis (Mihi).

     Botryoidal, that part of the interior not occupied with the young filled
with a yellowish gelatinous matter.

                              IIL DISKOSTOMA (MIHl).

      Peduncular. Whole group covered by a disk bearing
tubular membrane.

                         6. --Diskostoma acephalocystis (Mihi).       greenish

   Globular interior filled with gelatinous matter, of a transparent
ellow colour.

                     THE CYSTIC ENTOZOA.                        503

                                 IV. SPHAIRIDION (MIHI.)

     S. Animal enclosed within a cyst which is composed of two
membranes. Sac single, containing the pedicle or reproductive
body in its centre, and presenting a number of concentric
coloured rings. Hab. Peritoneum of Crested Balearic Crane.

                     V. CjENURUS RUDOLPHI.

       Sac  double, armed with numerous clusters                 of toothed
pedicles.     Epithelial cells in the sac. Germinal             cells in the
pedicles.
              Buried.
                              6. -- Cctnurus hcpalicus (Mihi).

     Sac botryoidaL opaque and thick ; pedicles internal, small, suckers

obsolete ; teeth barbless, small, irregularly bent, and forming one irregular
series. Gregarious. Infests the liver of man.

                                 7. -- C. cercbralis (Rudolphi).

     Sac globular, transparent, thin, pedicles with four or five acetabula.
Teeth thirteen, about three times as long as the breadth of the disc from
which they arise. Infests the brain of sheep and other ruminants.

                                VL CYSTICERCUS.

Animal enclosed within a cyst provided with a single pedicle.
1. Cyst formed from the infested animal

                     8. -- C. neglectus (Mihi).

      Cyst formed from omentum of infested animal. Pedicle about three times
the length of sac, head rounded, teeth twenty-one in number, very long,
slender, and bent at the extremity, barbed on bent edge. Bab. unknown.

     2. Cyst formed  by parasite, as well        as from textures of
nfested being.           9.--C. rallus (Mihi).

      Cyst small, globular, and transparent pedicle, not very long, teeth short,
sickle-shaped, being curved throughout their whole length.

                     vn. ECHINOCOCCUS.

                                                 H. D. S. G.

504  DESCRIPTION OF AN ERECTILE TUMOUR.

XXXIV.--DESCRIPTION OF AN ERECTILE TUMOUR*

This tumour occurred in the foot of an infant five months
old, which was amputated by Mr. Syme. A fine injection of
size and vermilion having been thrown into the arteries of the -
foot, the skin assumed a red tint, except where it was so
attenuated as to display the peculiar bluish colour of the

subjacent diseased mass.

    It was then cut longitudinally into two portions. A gush

of venous blood reduced its size very considerably. By means
of a gentle stream of water, the rest of the contained blood
was washed out, all pressure being avoided.

     The two halves were theji laid in a basin of spirit, and by
means of a syringe that fluid was forced into the diseased
mass, so as to distend the whole almost to its original size.

     After having been hardened, fresh longitudinal sections
were made, avoiding all pressure, and the structure was
examined.

     The venae saphenae, plantar, and posterior tibial veins were
much enlarged, and had undergone a peculiar change, which
consisted of increased bulk of the fibrous fasciculi of their
coats, and of longitudinal and oblique foldings of the parietes,
due partly to the fasciculation partly to actual involution.

     About the centre of the foot the veins broke up into the
general cellular arrangements which constituted the disease,
the saphense forming a sort of central cavity on the dorsum,
the plantar a much larger cavity or central areola in the sole
of the foot.

     The diseased mass itself consisted of areolae, which de-

                   · Comiack's Monthly MedicalJmirnal, ]845, p. 342.

DESCRIPTION OF AN ERECTILE TUMOUR.                                                               505

creased in size from the central venous cavities to the surface  a

of the skin, and to the deep limits of the disease, these limits                      it
being defined by the internal membrane of the venous system,                                it,
-which was continuous through all the areolae.

     The diseased mass had not displaced the surrounding .tex
tures, but had caused them to disappear before as in certain

malignant growths and ulcerations --bone, ligament, muscle,

and fat having equally failed in resisting its progress, the skin
alone standing out against its advance, and along with the
venous membrane forming the limit of its superficial position.

     The areolae of which the mass consisted were elongated
from the central cavities towards the limits of the disease,

being more elongated the nearer they were to the centres.
The peculiar form of the areolae was due to the radiated direc
tion of the bars and imperfect laminae which separated them,
these being thicker, stronger, more elongated, and more sepa
rated from one another around the central cavities than near

the circumference, where they were shorter, firmer, and much
more numerous.

     The bars and imperfect laminae consisted of fibrous tex
tures exactly resembling that of the tendinous ligaments, and
aponeuroses with numerous germinal centres.

     The bars and laminae were all covered, and consequently
they contained areolae, lined by fine membrane, consisting of
tesselated epithelium, and continuous with the lining mem
brane of the venous system, at the central cavities or diseased
terminations of the saphenae and plantar veins.

     In many of the bars and laminae small arteries were

situated, and one of these was traced nearly to the termination

of the anterior tibial on the back of the foot. It was not

ascertained how the arteries terminated, but was presumed
that they passed by small oblique orifices into the venous
areolae, as the curling arteries of the human placenta pass into
the venous areolae of the decidua.

506  DESCRIPTION OF

XXXV.-- DESCRIPTION OF A CONGENITAL TUMOUR
                          OF THE TESTIS*

This tumour was removed by Dr. James Duncan from a boy-

eight years old. When the tunica vaginalis was cut into, a
considerable quantity of matter mixed with hairs was evacu

ated. The tumour possessed the following characters :--A

mass of an irregular ovoidal form, about the size of the last

joint of the forefinger, appeared to be the testis, so much
altered in texture as to present no trace of its original

structure.

    It consisted almost entirely of fibrous texture, inclosing

fat-cells in its areolae, and, at variable distances throughout,

small tubercular masses of a light yellow tough substance, of

a granular aspect, resembling some forms of scrofulous deposit.

     Near the reflection of the tunica vaginalis, on the surface

of the testis, two club-shaped projections were attached,

covered by a layer of a substance resembling the ordinary

itintegument, with a quantity of fatty cuticular debris upon

This portion of integument somewhat suddenly became con

tinuous with the surface of the tunica vaginalis.

     On the surface of the club-shaped projections, and at the

angle of reflection of the tunica vaginalis, numerous long hairs

were attached by bulbs. These hairs, of one-half to three-
fourths of an inch in length, were conical, pointed, and of two
kinds, some having their conical pulp-cavities prolonged in the
form of canals, full of cells to their extremities ; others were,

with the exception of their conical pulp-cavities, solid.          were
     The integumentary membrane in which the hairs
                       * Northern Journal of Medicine, June 1815.

A CONGENITAL TUMOUR OF THE TESTIS.  507

implanted, resembled in all respects the ordinary skin of the
surface of the body.

    A few hairs appeared to arise from the general surface of

the tunica vaginalis.

    In the substance of the club-shaped projections, but par
ticularly in the larger of the two, where it adhered to the

mass of the testis, there were irregular masses of soft cartilage,
presenting all the ordinary characters of the corpuscles of

that texture, and a few vascular canals.

     In some places this cartilage had been converted into bone,
in which were visible irregular Haversian canals and numerous

corpuscles and canaliculL

      One portion of bone resembling a sand-glass measured
half-an-inch in length.

  598 THE CURVATURES OF THE ARTICULAR SURFACES, ETC.

 XXXVI. -- ON THE CUEVATUEES OF THE ARTI-
         CULAE SURFACES, AND ON THE GENERAL
        MECHANISM OF THE HUMAN HIP-JOINT*

 In consequence of the vague and unsatisfactory manner in
 which anatomists and physiologists have until lately exam
 ined the mechanism of the joints, it appears to have been

  assumed as self-evident that the cartilaginous surfaces of the
. head of the thigh-bone and of its socket must be spherical

 If, however, the outlines of the transverse and antero-posterior
 curvatures of the head of the femur be attentively followed
 by the eye against the light, it will be at once observed that
 they are not arcs of circles. The transverse curves as seen from
 the front or back of the bone are two in number, one above,

 the other below the fossa for the ligamentum teres, and they
 increase in rapidity as they approach that fossa.

       The transverse curves are also two in number, and may be
 observed by looking at the outline of the head of the bone
 from the inner side, holding it so that the ridge extending

 from it to the lesser trochanter may be perpendicular. If the

 line of the ridge be then traced upwards to the outline of the
 articular surface of the head of the bone, it will be found to
 intersect that outline at the point of osculation of the two
 curves of which it consists. This point is a cusp directed
 upwards, and the two curves increase jn rapidity as they
 extend down to the front and back of the articular margin-
 On examining the articular surface, the eye will now be able

      * This memoir ought to have immediately followed that on the Mechanism
 of the Knee-joint, but the manuscript from which we print was unfortunately
 overlooked until the greater part of this volume had gone to press. -- Ens.

THE CURVATDRES OF THE ARTICULAR SURFACES, ETC. 509

to trace this cusp to a ridge extending across from the neck

of the bone to the fossa, dividing the surface into an anterior
Ifand posterior area.
                       the eye be carried along two series of

lines diverging from the upper angles of the fossa, the one

series outwards and forwards on the anterior area, and the

other outwards and backwards on the posterior area, and with

a convexity on each line towards the ridge corresponding to

the curvature of that part of the surface on which it is traced,

each series will be found to close with the anterior and

Itposterior margins of the fossa for the ligamentum teres.

will also be observed why the transverse lines of curvature

increase in rapidity from above downwards.

The cartilaginous surface of the acetabulum consists of

three areas situated respectively on the pubic, iliac, and

ischial portions of the cavity. They are more or less dis

tinctly separated in the dry or recent bone by depressed lines.

The marginal terminations of these lines are indicated at the

brim of the cavity by the three notch-like hollows of the edge,

that between the ischial and iliac at the middle of the

posterior margin ; that between the iliac and the pubic on

the upper margin at the outer side of the ilio-pectineal

eminence ; that between the pubic and ischial by the fossa

and notch of the lower part and margin of the cavity. These

three notches, with the three intermediate wave-like projec

tions, produce an undulating form of margin in the macerated

bone. The three projections are respectively formed by the

upper part of the iliac, the lower part of the ischial, and the

anterior part of the pubic portion. The margin of the arti

cular surface on the head of the femur is also undulating.

It sweeps outwards opposite the front and back of the great

trochanter, and slightly below opposite the lesser trochanter,

and therefore recedes inwards opposite the upper margin of

the great trochanter, also before and behind the ridge which

connects the head to the small trochanter. In the erect

510 THE CURVATURES OF THE ABTICULAE STJBFACES, AND

position, that is when standing on both feet, the hip-joint
being in full extension, the posterior area of the head of the
femur is in close contact and congruent with the ischial area
of the acetabulum, the undulation outwards of the posterior
margin of the articular surface of the head of the femur
occupying the broadest part of the ischial surface of the
acetabulum ; while the undulation inwards of its upper part

occupies the notch in the margin of the acetabulum, between
the ischial and iliac portions of the cavity.

    In semi-flexion of the hip-joint, the anterior area of the
head of the femur is congruent with the iliac area, this

broadest or projecting portion occupying the undulation of
the former, which extends outwards on the front of the neck
of the bone ; while the inward undulations on each side of it

occupy respectively the acetabular notches between the
ischial and iliac, and between the iliac and pubic portions
of the cavity.

      The anterior border of the femoral pit is the thread of this
screwed area, and curves more rapidly as it approaches the
posterior angle of the attachment of the lig-teres. The area

itself is the rolling surface. It is a right-handed screw in the
right hip, a left in the left. It therefore screws the head of

the thigh bone out of the socket in flexion, but screws it
against the iliac area, advancing its superior external angle or
apex against the outer or projecting marginal portion of that
area. During the action of this area the ilio-femoral ligament'
is slack ; when completed the pubic and ischial portions of the

capsule become tense and act as the tightening arrangements
of the combination.

     In complete flexion the lower portion of the postenor

area of the head of the femur, which occupies the cotyloid
 fossa during semi-flexion, is applied and rests upon the puDlC
 area ; the posterior undulation outwards on the femur which
 occupies the ischial projection in full extension, now occ«pies

        THE GENERAL MECHANISM OF THE HUMAN HIP-JOINT. 511       is
                                                                     is,
the pubic projection, and the pubic notch is occupied by the
posterior inferior inward undulation.                                                                                                ;

    In complete extension, as in standing erect on both feet,                                                  it a

the posterior area of the head of the femur is congruent with                                                                                a
the ischial area of the acetabulum, and with the superior                                                                                       is a
internal portion of the iliac area ; being screwed backwards,                                                                                                          a
upwards, inwards, and forwards, by the action of the extensor
muscles of the hip, and by the tightening of the successive                                                                                                                                                                ;
fasciculi of, and ultimate tension of, the entire ilio-femoral

portion of the capsule. During extension, the thigh passes
backwards and outwards, rotating outwards at the same time.

It to use the current nomenclature, combination of ex

tension, abduction, and rotation outwards. These movements
are the necessary accompaniments of the movements already
described between the posterior femoral, and ischial articular
areas. The movements of these two areas in extension are
such that the male or femoral area advances by combination
of rolling and gliding along the female or ischial, apex towards

apex, and base towards base, until the opposite convex and
concave surfaces become congruent throughout, and the joint

   screwed home in extension. If portion of the inner wall

of the acetabulum be removed, so as to display the respective
movements of the areas under consideration, the most pro
minent portion of the femoral area will be observed to
advance inwards and forwards, as advances laterally along
its action of rotation. The head of the femur thus, during
extension, screwed, and therefore forced into the acetabulum
from without inwards, and from behind forwards. The
posterior border of the femoral pit constitutes the proper
thread of this screwed area its superior more rapidly curved
portions at the posterior extremity of the attachment of the
lig.-teres advancing during the movement forward and inward.
The area itself constitutes the rolling surface. This area, with
the ischial and deeper portion of the iliac, constitutes right

512 THE CURVATURES OF THE ARTICULAR SURFACES, AND

handed screw combination in the right, a left-handed in the

left hip.            teres. --When the posterior                                              area is
     The ligamentum

screwed home, the round ligament is quite slack and folded

over on itself forwards ; the posterior angle of its femoral

attachment having revolved over and in front of its anterior,

while the posterior area is screwing off, that performing the
      is, it
                          is
                                it

                                           is
                                                                                 is,
first half of flexion, by screwing and rolling backwards, down

wards, and onwards, the ligamentum teres gradually tightens,

so that when the shaft of the thigh bone has passed so far

forwards and inwards as  when the foot comes in contact

with the ground in the step, when the trunk has inclined

slightly forward to the same side over the head of the thigh

bone, becomes quite tight, flattened out, and lodged in the

cartilaginous fossa below the femoral pit, and bounded on each

side by the screwed anterior and posterior borders of that

groove. The joint now in mid flexion (or mid extension),

that  the posterior femoral area, and the corresponding

cotyloid area are about to break contact, and the anterior

femoral and corresponding area to come into action. When

this takes place the ligamentum teres again gradually

slackens, folding backwards with its anterior angle of femoral

attachment revolving over the posterior. In extreme flexion

when the lower part of the posterior area of the head of the

femur passes across the non-cartilaginous fossa of the acetabu

lum and rests on the pubic area, position which can only be
      a
                                          a
assumed along with extreme abduction, the ligamentum teres
folds still further backwards and inwards. As the hip joint

is  essentially hinge joint, the ligamentum teres represents

the internal lateral ligament, as the capsular                                        is      modified

                                                                                           a

external lateral ligament. The fossa for the femoral

attachment of the ligamentum teres lies in the line of oscu

lation of its two areas and, therefore, like the internal lateral
                     ;

ligament of the hock-joint in the horse, becomes tense at mid

TOE GENERAL MECHANISM OF THE HUMAN HIP-JOINT. 513

action. The anterior and posterior bands of this ligament are

reciprocally related to the anterior and posterior areas of the

femoral head, and of the acetabulum, as the ilio-femoral and

pubo-ischial femoral are.

    On the Movements of the Hip-Joint. --The movements of

the elbow and ankle-joints take place in an anterior and a

posterior conical screw combination in each joint. These com

binations are both dexiotrope or both scoeotrope in each joint,

according to the side to which the joint belongs. The axes

of the fundamental cones lie more or less obliquely across the

joint, one in front of the other --the apices of the cones

pointing, the one outwards, the other inwards. The so-called

movements of flexion and extension in these joints -- that is,
presumed movements in the same antero-posterior plane --are,

in fact, movements of flexion and extension produced by

combined gliding and rolling along one conical helicoid course

in the anterior half, and along a second in a reverse direction

in the posterior half of the articular path. As, however, the

axes of rotation of both screw combinations are so nearly

coincident with the axes of the presumed hinge movement,

the actual variation from such a movement is not at first

obvious. For the same reasons the movements are princi

pally screwing or gliding, with a minimum of rolling ; the

gaping, therefore, is comparatively slight. It is evident that

the path described by a point in either of the segments of the

limb, between which the joint is placed, must be a double

helix -- that  is,two conical helices, corresponding respectively
                                             2
to the anterior and posterior screw combinations of the jointL

oscultating with one another. It must also be evident from

the double-threaded form of the screwed surfaces of these

joints, and the peculiar configuration of their opposite arti

cular surfaces, that they do not admit of the movements

technically termed adduction, abduction, and rotation.

The anterior and posterior screw combinations of the knee

514 THE CURVATURES OF THE ARTICULAR SURFACES, ETC.

joint differ from those in the elbow and ankle in their axes
being nearly perpendicular to the horizontal plane of the
joint, that of the anterior being directed with its vertex
upwards and slightly backwards and outwards ; that of the
posterior upwards and slightly forwards and inwards. The
shallow transverse curvatures of the rolling areas of the male
elements, and the wavy convex form of the corresponding
curvatures of the female elements, would appear to render
lateral and circumductory movements of the knee-joint

possible. It will be found, however, that throughout the

whole extent of its double helicoid movements, it only permits
of eversion and inversion of the toes at the stage beyond semi
flexion ; these movements, due to the action of the biceps and
semi-membranous being again excluded when the joint is

flexed home.
      The hip-joint, from the ball and socket form assumed hy

its combined anterior and posterior screw combinations, is not
only capable of pursuing its fundamental double helicoid
path, but also of performing the so-called adduction, abduc
tion, and circumduction movements in all parts of its course,
but more particularly towards the close of flexion.

                        INDEX TO VOL. II.

Absorption, nature of, 397 ; and ulcer          tures and movements of the acting

   ation, and the structures engaged in         facets of, 246-264 ; on the curvatures

   these processes, 403-407                     of the, 508-514

Acephalocyst or simple hydatid, 476-482 ;   Artist, how he might draw better pro

   Acephalocystia annatus, 478, 502 ;           portioned figures, 214-218

   A. simplex, 480, 502; A. monroii,        "A  stoma acephalocystis, 482,   502
                                                Axial" couple," meaning     of, 258
   482, 502

Acetic acid in fluid which contained Sar-   Azalea, electric current at time of flower

    cina ventriculi. 370                        ing, 315
Acids found in stomachs of animals, 368,

   309                                      1! \i:it (Von) on morphological character
                                                of supra-a'sophageal ganglion, 86, 87
Acting facets of articular surfaces, their
                                            Bacillary layer of the retina, 265 ;
   curvatures and movements, 246-264            Gottsche nnd Hannover on, 268 ; its

Alpidium. Jicus, hepatic organ of, 415          morphological relations, 271
                                            Balearica pavonia, entozoon in, 487
Amaryllis, electric current at time of      Ualwna mysticctus, tooth-germs in foetus

   flowering, 315                               of, 54
                                            Barry (Dr. Martin), paper on the cor
Anatomical and pathological observa
                                                puscles of the blood referred to, 389 ;
   tions, 387-503                               development of cells from parent

Anatomy, the study of, to be advanced           centre, 391
                                            Basement membrane of Bowman, 391
   by ascertaining the accurate shape,      Batteries in Gynmotus, 291, 292 ; in
   form, and proportion, geometrically,
                                                Malapterurus, 293, 294 ; of the fish
   209                                          independent electromotor structures,

Anemone, electric descending current at         341, 342

   time of flowering, 315                   Battery in electrical fishes, 289, 299,

Annulosa, eye how acted on, 280                 304, 305

Anuulose type of organisation, on mor       Baxter on electrical currents during
                                               secretion and respiration, 300 ; on the
   phological relations of nervous system      electric relations of mucous membrane,

   in, 73-87                                    320, 322 ; of gland, 321
                                            Beauty of proportion in human body,
A iwmoura (Crustacea), organs of genera
                                                Hay on, 215
"   tion in.  430       meaning of, 258     Becquerel on electricity in vegetables,
   Antaxial   couple,"
                                               referred to, 308, 318
Aphotogenic rays, 278                       Bell, Anatomy of Teeth referred to, 33,
Aplysia punctata, liver of, 415 ; secre
                                                35 ; note in Palmer's edition of
   tion from mantle, 416, 425                   Hunter' b works quoted, 21
                                            Berzelius on difficulty of distilling viscid
Apple and pear, electrical current in          animal fluids in retorts (note), 362
   fruit of, 315                            Bilharz (Dr.), on the electric organ in
                                               Nilotic Malapterurus,,294
Aplenjx, nasal fossa;, arrangement of,      Biology, how its study has been pro
                                                moted, 205, 206
   153

Arm in well-made man straight, 218
Arnold, paper in Salzburg Journal, 1831,

   referred to, 11, etc. ; on formation of

    milk-tooth sacs, 51, 52
Articular cartilages, the process of ulcer

   ation in, 408-411 ; couple, what Pro

   fessor Goodsir means by the term,

   247 ; surfaces, memoir on the curva

516                                  INDEX.

Birds, centrum of pre-sphenoidal sclero Carp, interorbital space m, 1 57
   tome in, 149-154 ; from size of organs Carswell on cirrhosis of liver, 3S2
   of vision, have great development of Cartilage, nature of, 408
                                              Cams, view of the morphology of nervous
    principal frontal, 156                      system in annulosa, 79; division of
Birth, state of teeth at, 23

Blake, Structure and Formation of Teeth       skeleton, 102

   referred to, 21, 33                        Cassowary, olfactory chambers of, 153

Blastema announcing formation of a Catacentric sclerotome, 110
   gland in embryo, 425
                                              Catametopa have large generative organs,
Blastoderma, the first form after com
                                              429

   mencement of development, 73               Cell (central), origin of others, 390

Blennius viviparus, Rathke on cartilagi Cells, various kinds of, in animals and
   nous streaks at the basis of head in
                                              vegetables, 403

   embryo, 186                                Cell-wall does not separate and prepare

Blumenbach on the enclosure of bullets        secretion, 426
   in ivory, 58
                                              Cement of elephant's tusk, exogenous
Bone : how dead or dying bone is sepa
                                              growth of, 59
   rated from the living structure, 406 ; Centres of nutrition, 389-392
   the structure and
"  Bones of Bertin,"  economy   of,  461-464  Centrifugal and centripetal nerves, their
                      158, 163                   electric relations are identical, 337

Bowman, paper on muscle referred to, Cetacea, substance in pulp-cavities of
   389 ; fat deposited in liver, 382, 413 ;   teeth, 62
   on basement membrane, 391 ; paper Changes in pulps and sacs at various
   on the structure and use of the Mal-       stages till the eruption of the wisdom-

   pighiau bodies of the kidney referred      teeth, 26-43

   to, 391, 428 ; on mucous membrane, Chemical -action, cause of electricity in
   396, 428
                                              vegetables, 318

Braehyvra (Crustacea), organs of gener        Chemistry, mechanics, and other physical
   ation in, 430, 435                            sciences, how the knowledge of them

Brain in crustacea, its position, 80 ; in         was advanced, 206, 208

    insects, annelids, and mollusca, 81       Child at birth, development of pulps and
Brcmser, Intestinal Worms of Man,                sacs of teeth in, 23 ; between four and
                                                 five years old, sac and pulp of teeth
   quoted, 481                                   in, 25, 26 ; six years old, 26

Bright, figures of ulceration of Peyer's

   patches, 378                               Chyle, absorption of, in fresh subjects,

Brisbane (Lady), sends gold-fish with         394
   parasitic conferva on it to Mr. Bryson, Cirrhosis of liver, 382
    345
                                              Claudius on Corti's membrane, 2S3-2S6
Briicke and Hannover on the rods and          Cochlea, on the lamina spiralis of, 282-
    cones of bacillary layer of retina re                                             it was
                                              2a8"8   ; T)r. Young's   opinion  that
    flecting light back, 269                         micrometer of    sound,"   287

Bryson (Alex.), on vegetable nature of        Cod, interorbital space in, 156
   growth on fin and tail of gold-fish, 345   Comb on a spear-head found in tusk of
                                              elephant, 64
Buccinum undalum, liver of, 415

Bulbs, tooth-pulp and its sac, 51             Cones of retina, 265 ; seat of impression
                                                 of light, 209 ; Goodsir's opinion that
Burdach's Physiologie referred to, 20            they are not nervous structures, 270
Bursarice on filaments of conferva of
                                              Conferva;, their mode of reproduction,
   gold-fish, 350

Cocnurus cerebralis, 487, 503 ; C. hepa-      212 ; which vegetate on the skin of

    ticus, 489, 503                           the gold-fish, 345-350
Camels, canine teeth in, 53
                                              Contraction (muscular) electric condition
Camper on metallic bodies inclosed in            during, 328
    ivory, 58
                                              Cooper (Sir Astley) on structure of
Canine and upper incisors, germs of, in          thymus, correction of one of his ob
   embryo of cow and sheep, 53
                                                  servations, 74 ; (Daniel). cotton-like.
Carabus calemilatm, hepatic coca of, 415          conferva on gills and fins of gold-fish
Carciniis manias, hepatic eaeca of, 415 :         350

   liver of, 423                              Corti, membrane of, in cochlea, 283
                                              Cow, follicular stage of dentition in, 53

                                      INDEX.                                                              517

Crab, how it acts on the injuring of a                                  different parts of vegetables, 308 ; on
   limb, 471                                                            electric phenomena of membrane and

Cranium of mammal, how it differs from                                  gland, 319-321

   that of the other vertebrata, 114
Crocodiles, observations made by Good- Ear, structure of parts of, 282-288

sir in dissection of, 9S, 99 ; peculiar Echinococcm hominis, 480 ; £. veterin-
position of their nostrils, 118, 119
                                                                        orum, 481

Cruikshank (William), Anatomy of the Echiurus vulgaris, coeca of, 416
Absorbing Vessels of the Human Ecker, communication on Bilharz's ana

Body, referred to, 393, 443                                             tomy of electric Nile fish, 294, 299

Crustacea, Geoffroy St. Hilaire's opinion Edentulous mammals likely to have
of their relations, 79 ; brain in, its                                   germs of teeth in foetal state,
position, SO ; development of seminal                                "  Edinburgh Dissector," referred    54     35.
                                                                                                            to,
secretion in, 427 ; on the mode of re Electric organ, various opinions on its
production of lost parts in, 471-475                                    action, 338-341 ; fishes do not feel

Crystalline column, 278 ; of compound                                   electric discharges produced by them

eye, 279                                                                selves or other individuals of the same

Cuvier, on the bone     ealnedphaivnotr, y59ar;o"unods                   species, 343      in torpedo, gymno
   bullets in tusks of                                               Electrical apparatus

en forme de cuiller" in lizard, what,                                   tus, and other fishes, 289 ; difttorb-

151 ances in the processes of living organ
Cycbrmetopa, the most prolific crustacea,
                                                                        ised bodies, as noticed by Galvaui,
429 Matteucci, and Du Bois Reymond, 299

Cvclostomous fishes, nasal passage of, Electricity (organic), a brief review of

173-175                                                                 the present state of, 306-350 ; pecu

Cyprinoid fish, post-stomal sclerotome,                                 liar character of that evolved from the

176 batteries of the fish, 342

Cystic cntozoa, anatomy and develop Elcctrotouic state of nerve, 333-335

ment of, 476-503                                                     Elephant, successive dentitions conducted

Cysticercus celluloms, 490 ; C. rattws,                                 in a cavity of reserve, 41 ; on bullets

491 ; C. neglectus, 503 ; species of, i and other bodies inclosed in the tusks

found in almost every part of human                                     of, 56-65.

body, 493                                                            Embryo of sixth week, dental arches in,

Dalkymple on the structure of human                                     1 ; seventh week, 4 ; second month,
                                                                        6 ; nine weeks old, 8 ; tenth week,
                                                                        9; 11th or 12th week, 10; 13th
placenta, referred to, 446-449

Davy (Dr.), on the torpedo, 344                                         week, 11 ; 14th week, 12 ; 15th week,
                                                                        14 ; 16th week, 16 ; fifth month, 18 ;
Dexiotrope movements, 260

Diacentric sclerotome, 111                                              forms must be studied in morpho

Diaphragms (electric) in torpedo, 290,                                  logical inquiries, 83

291 ; in gymnotus, 292, 293                                          Enamel pulp of Hunter, 33 ; deposition

Diatomacete, their mode of reproduction,                                of, 54

212 Endogenous growth of ivory, 59

Dicotyledonous plants, electrical currents Entomosome, a segmented animal, 84

in, 310, 311                                                         Entozoa (cystic), Harry Goodsir on their

Digestion, functions of, 400, 401                                       anatomy and development, 476-503

Diplostcmium volvens, Nordman, 500                                   Equiangular spiral, its characteristic

Discs of mass on each side of tail of                                   property, 253

skate, their structure, 295                                          Eruptive stage of dentition, 44

Diseased structure in one animal iden Erdl, dissertation on Helix aljira, 413

tical with nornial structure in another, Ethmoidal sclerotome, 122-148; remark

62, 63                                                                  able modification of, in the bird, 127-

D" wDkiosstitlo"mamaacrcgpinhailnocymsotvvse,me4n8ts3-5o02f joints,     130 ; in the chelonian, 130 ; in the
                                                                        crocodiles, 131 ; in laccrtians, 136 ;

248 in ophidians, 137 ; in amphibians,

LHstom/i clavatttm, Owen, 499                                           138 ; views hitherto taken of it, 139-
Dodo, Dinoniis, and other extinct birds,
                                                                        143

structure of bones of head, 152, 153 Exogenous growth of cement of elephant's

Donne, opposite electrical conditions of                                tusk, 59

518                                    INDEX.

External lamella of Blake, 33                Germs of the teeth, 43 ; of canine and

Eye : on the mode in which light acts on        upper incisors in embryo of cow ami
the ultimate nervous structures of the
                                                sheep, 53
eye, and on the relations between sim Giraffe, antlers of, 149

ple and compound eyes, 273-281               Gland, electric relations of, 321

Facets of patellar surface, peculiarity of,  Goethe on the elements of three distinct
                                                 cranial
    234                                      "  Go-lines   s"egomf eanntsk,le-1jo9i7nt,  237

Faraday on the power of gymnotus to Gold ball fouud at Amsterdam in ele
strike fish motionless, 304 ; his re
                                                phant's tusk, 57

searches on electricity, 306 ; on the Gold-fish, on the conferva vegetating on
atmosphere of power around fish at              the skin of, 345-350

the time when electric organs are dis Gonidimn, a genus of Ehrenberg's, 360
                                             Gonium, how its square form is pro
charged, 343
Figures, Mr. D. R. Hay shows how they
might be drawn in good proportion,              duced, 211 ; characters of the genus,

                                                359 ; O. hyalinum, ylaucum, pectorale,

214-219                                         punctatum, traiiquiltum, 360

Filamentary layer of the retina, 267         Goodsir (Harry), paper on the develop

Fin-rays of fishes, 105                         ment and metamorphoses of caligus,
                                                referred to,- 424 ; the testis and its se
Final causes, the study of, furthering the

   progress of biology, 206                     cretion in the decapodous crustaceans,
Fishes, bony rays of, 104 ; composition         429-435 ; the mode of reproduction
of head, 113 ; from size of organs of
                                                of lost parts in the crustacea, 471-
vision have great development of prin
                                                475 ; on the anatomy and develop
cipal froutal, 156                              ment of the cystic entozoa, 476-503

Flower, electrical condition of, 31 4        Granulations of surgical pathologists, iu
Follicular stage of dentition, 44 ; in
                                                reproduction of bone, 469

ruminants, etc., 53-55                       Gray cellular layer of the retina, 266

Food, changes of, in gut, of a chemical Growth and secretion, centripetal, 418
                                             Gruby, microscopic character of morbid
nature, 400

Formation and growth of ivory, 60               products referred to, 378

Fox, Natural H istory of the Human Teeth, Gymnorhyntjius horridtts in liver of sun-

referred to, 33                                 fish, 494

Frog, Galvani's observations on electrical Gymnottis, four batteries in, 291
contractions in the muscles of, 322 ;

Nobili on electric current in nerve IlabenuUt sulcata, 2S3 ; denticulata,

and muscles of, 323, 328, 330, 334 ;            284

palatals in 161-163                          Hannal arch, Goodsir's remarks on Pro
Fruit, Donne's observations on electrical
                                                fessor Owen's view of, 97-100

condition of, 315                            Hamiapod, Goodsir's term for a verte

Galathea, testis in, 431, 434                   brate animal, 85
                                             Haeinome, haematomo, terms of Good-

Galvani on animal electricity, 319, 322         sir's, 86

Gelatinous body between pulp and sac Hannover on conferva of frog and newt,

of teeth, 20                                    350

Generation of .Sarci'na, 358 ; (organs of) Havers (Cloptou) on vascular fringes of
in male crustacean, 429                         synovial membranes, 437, 438

Geoffroy St. Hilaire detects tooth-germs Haversian canals iu bone, 406, 462 ; in
in fetus of whale, 54                           flammatory changes, 468 ; glands or

Geometrical formation of shells shown           synovial pads, 227, 228, 235

by Professor Moseley, 209-211 ; cha Hay (D. R.) examined the geometric
racter of the configuration and move-           outline of the human body, 213-219
mentof central articular facets, 247-264 Head (vertebrate), morphological con

Germinal membrane, 391-392, 400;                stitution of its skeleton, 88-197

spot of the ovum, centre of nutrition, Helianthus tuberosus, electrical currents
389 in tubers of, 313
Germination of plant, electrical rela Helicoid curve of movement in knee-

tions of plant to soil and air reversed      joint, 238, 241

after, 310                                   Helix algim, cells in kidney of, 413 ;

                            INDEX.                                        519

   H. aspersa, cells in liver, 414 ; kidney  Kiernan, researches into the healthy and
                                                morbid structure of human liver, 381
   of, 415
Helmholtz on reflected light acting on       Klockner, gold ball found in tusk of

   the grey cellnlar layer of the retina,       elephant, 57
   269
                                             Knee-joint, anatomy of human, 220-230 ;
Heule, System of Anatomy referred to,           mechanism of, 231-245
   231 ; on epithelium-cells of glands
                                             Knees in female brought together, 218
   and follicles, 412                        Knox (Dr.) on tooth-substances, 62 ; on

Hip-joint, general mechanism of, 513,           the troughs in gymnotus, 292 ; (F.)
                                                 tooth-germs in fcotus of whale, 54
    514                                      Kolliker on the rods and cones as the
Human anatomy supplies keys for mor              seat of the impression of light in the
                                                 retina, 269
    phological solution of parts iu pre-
    sphenoidal sclerotome in birds, etc.,

    157
Human body, beauty of, arising from Lcemodipoda, testis in, 433

certain symmetrical and geometrical Lamina spiralis of the cochlea, 282-288

forms, 215-219                               Land-crabs of tropics, 429

Hunter (John), account of the GymnotUs       Langer forms continued screws from
   eleclricus referred to, 292 ; Natural
    History of Teeth referred to 20, etc.       upper articular surface of astragalus
                                                in horse, etc., 237
Hyas, testis of, 430 ; spindle-shaped        Lathynis tuberosus, electrical currents

    celLs, 432                                   in tubers of, 313

llydatxda gadorum, Rathke, 497               Law of the excitation of nerves by
                                                electrical current, 337, 338 ; of
IncisrVES (central), how they pass              force, how made out by Sir Isaac
    through the gum, 37 ; (superior)
    teeth, tardy development of, 45             Newton, 212 ; of production, what

Inductive philosophy promoted the ad            may prove to be, 213
    vance of physical science, 206           Laws regulating the development of

Infant eight or nine months old, state of       pulps and sacs, and period of appear
    teeth in, 24                                 ance of each tooth-germ, 48-50
                                             Lawrence on growth of orifices produced
Inflammation of membranes, 438                   by balls in ivory, 58, 59
Infusorial animalcules on filaments of       Leaves, Becquerel's oliservations of

conferva of gold-fish, 350                   electrical currents in, 314

Intermaxillary bones and incisors, 46, Leptopodiii, testis of, 430

    47                                       Leydig on structure of simple and com

Internal lamella of Blake, 33                    pound eyes, 279
Internuncial cord in electrical fishes, 289
Intestinal glands, on a diseased condition   Liebig on power possessed by vapours
                                                of carrying along with them portions
    of the, 372-378                              of bodies which in their solid form
Intestinal villi, the structure and func
                                                resist dissipation by very high tem
   tions of, 393-402                             peratures, 362
Ivory of elephant's tusks, musket-bullets,   Light, mode in which it acts on the
                                                 retina, 273-281
    eta, inclosed in, 56-65
                                             Lily (white), electrical current at time
Jacob's membrane of retina, 274
Janihina fragilia, mantle and its secre          of flowering, 315

    tion, 416, 425                           Limbs, Goodsir on the morphological
Joint-surfaces of mechanicians and of            constitution of, 198-203 ; organ in
                                                 crabs which supplies germs for, 472
    organic structures, differences of, 246
Jonquil, electric current at time of         Limitary layer of the retina, 267

                                             Liver, observations on structure and pa

flowering, 315                               thology of, 381-386 ; the natural habi

Key (Aston) on the ulcerative process           tat of the acephalocyst, 476 ; (human)
   in joints referred to, 408                   nucleated cells of, 415, 416

Kidney and liver, structure and patho        Logarithmic spiral in shells, 209-211 ;
   logical changes in, 379-383 ; appendix       probably the law at work in the in
   to this paper, 383-386 ; granular de         crease of organic bodies, 213

   generation of, 379-381                    Loligo sagittata, secreting membrane of
                                                 ink-bag, 413 ; liver of, 415

520                                    INDEX.

Louis and Chomel on matter distending Movement (primary) or " along the
                                                         "wahcraotssit
   intestinal glands, 378                      thread,"                 means, 248    ; (second
Lymphatic glands, structure of, 439-444        ary) or                  the thread,"   248

                                           Mucous membrane, electric relations of,

Macroura (Crustacea), organs of genera         320, 322
   tion in, 431, 433
                                           Miiller on cyclostomous fishes, 174 ; on

Magnet formed by electricity of fish, 342      absorption, 397 ; on secreting glands,

Malapterurus, electric batteries in, 293,      412

294, 302                                   MiiUerian filaments of the retina, 269 ;

Male and female figures, how they differ       not nervous structures, 270

in harmonic ratio, D. R. Hay's views, Muscle, electric properties of, 322-331

217, 218                                   Musket-bullets and other foreign bodies,

Malpighion secreting glands beingformed        how inclosed in tusks of the elephant,

of tubes with blind extremities, 412           56-65

Mammary gland of bitch, 416                Musical harmony in proportions of human

Mathematical modes of investigation in         frame, D. R. Hay's theory, 216-219
the determination of organic forms, Myoma, myotome, terms of Goodsir's,

two lectures on the employment of,             86

205-219 ; principles on which shells

are constructed, 209-21 1                  Nautilus, the form of the shell in, 21 1

Matteucci on the dependence of the Nares, relative position of external and

electromotor energy of electric appa           internal, 165

ratus in fishes on the nervous centre, Nasal chamber in bird, 169 ; fossie,

300 ; electric properties in muscle            their constitution, 165-173 ; passage

due to its own texture and not to              of cyclostomous fishes, 1 73, 1 75

    nerves, 323                            Nasmyth (A.) on resemblance of ossified
                                              pulp to diseased ivory, 62
Mechanism of knee-joint, Goodsir's me      "  Negative" movement in joints,           249
   moir on, 231-245

Meckel's cartilage, 187-190                Xereis, biliary apparatus of, 415

Membrane aud gland, electric pheno Nerves of batteries in electrical fishes,

mena in connection with, 319-322               289-291 ; in gymnotus, 298

Mercury, effects of, on teeth, 38          Nerve-filament, the doctrine of Du Bois

Metasomatomic openings defined, 85             Reymond on, 276

Meyer, on the peculiar curvature of the Nerve, electric properties of, 331

inner condyle of the femur, 220-224, Nervous centre in electrical fishes, 2S9 ;

232 ; his Mechanics of the Human               force aud electricity equivalent, 331 ;

Skeleton referred to, 220, 232-234             system in the annulose and vertebrate

Microcosm, electrical disturbances in, types, morphological relations of,

represented by similar but grander 78-87

phenomena in macrocosm, 338                Neurome, neurotome, terms of Goodsir's,
Milk incisives, growth of, 36
                                               86

Milk-teeth, production of, 48, 50, 55      Neuronaia nionroi, 493 ; John Good-

Modiola vulgaris, liver of, 414                sir's account of, 495-501

Molars in man and elephant, their Neuropod, Goodsir's term for an annu

growth, 41 ; the anterior permanent            lose animal, 85

molar the most remarkable tooth in Newton from the geometric forms made

man, 45                                        out the law of the force, 212

Mo/lusca, Moseley on the logarithmic Nobili on electric current in nerve and

curve in the shells of, 209-21 1 ; eye         muscle of the frog, 323, 328

in, how acted on, 280                      Noise, sound heard merely as noise in

Monitor-lizards, "palatines" in, 160           vestibule of ear, 287

Morphological constitution of the skele Nostrils of chelonian more of the or

ton of the vertebrate head, 88-197            nithic than mammalian conformation,

Moseley (Professor) on the geometrical        171 ; of crocodiles, peculiar position
   formation of shells, 209-211               of, 118, 119

Month, position of, fundamental differ Nucleated cell, secretion a function of,

ences between morphological relations          413-416, 428

of annulose and vertebrate nervous Nutritive centres of textures permanent,

systems, 80, 82                               390 ; of organs embryonic, 390

                                 INDEX.                                                     521

Oken, views on cephalic limbs held by      Peyer's glands, Boehm and Krause on,
    Carus, 198
                                               413 ; patches, ulceration of, in con
Olfactory chambers in head of birds,           tinued fever, 372-378
                                           Phallnma, vulgaris, hepatic organ of,
    153 ; sense, its seat, 168
                                                415
Operculum of the shell, its importance
   in regulating the form, 210, 211
                                           Photesthetic bodies of retina, 275, 278 ;
Opuntia, current passing from stamen           surface, 278
   to pistil at time of flowering, 316
                                           Photogenic rays, 277
Organic electricity, present state of,
   306-350                                 Pig, follicular stage of dentition in, 53 ;
                                              gastric glands in, Wasmann on, 413
Organised and inorganised bodies, dif
   ference in the mode of studying, 207    Pirena prunum, hepatic organ of, 414
                                           Pituitary body, Eathke on, 82

Organs that have once acted an im Placenta (human), Goodsir's memoir on

portant part never altogether dis             the structure of, 445-460

appear so long as they do not inter Plant, soil, and atmosphere, electrical

fere with other functions, 39                 reactions of, 309
                                           Polarisation of nerve, to what is it due ?
Osseous texture, 461
Ossiflc juice repairing injury in ele      "   336       movement in joints,                249
                                              Positive"
   phant's tusk, Blumenbach's opinion,

58 Post-stomal cephalic sclerotomes, 175-

Ossification round balls in tusks of          197

elephant, 60                               Potato, electrical currents in tubers, 813

Owen (Professor) on the relations of the Pouillet's experiments on electrical deve
endo and exo-skeleton, 79 ; structure         lopment in young plants, 308 ; in old

of head of dodo, dinorois, apteryx, etc.,     plants, 309

152-154 ; views on limbs, remarks of Prawn, seminal fluid, 434

Goodsir on, 198 ; description of a         Pre-sphenoidal sclerotome, 148-158 ; in
                                              birds, 149-154 ; in chelonians, 154 ;
microscopic entozoon infesting the            in crocodiles, 154 ; in lizards, 155 ;
muscles of the human body, referred

to, 494 ; on the anatomy of Distoma           in ophidians and batrachia, 155 ; in

elavatum, 499                                 fish, 156 ; haemal arch in fishes, 163

Owl, bones of the head, 152                Primary or fibrous sclerome, 93 ; se

                                                                         creting cell, 417
Pacini on electrical diaphragms, 290,291, Primitive dental groove, 27-30
                                           Principal frontal of birds, what, 149
292, 302, 303

Pagurus, generative organs of, 431, 432 Proboscidian mammals, simplification of

I'alatal arch and pterygoids in the bird,     sclerotome in, 111

158, 160 ; in reptiles and amphibians, Proboscis of elephant and tapir more
160 than a mere elongation of external

Palate-bone of bird, lacertian, and am        nose, 111

phibian, 136                               Progressive development, phases through
Parelectronomic layer of Du Bois Rey-
                                              which the tooth-pulp passes, 30

mond, 327                                  Proximal margin in movements of joints,

Patella, movements and relations of, as       248

   observed by Goodsir, 223-227            Pterygoid in fishes, 164
Patella vuigata, liver of, 415             Pulmonic blood, electric relations of,

Peach and apricot, electrical current in,     322

815 Pulps and sacs of human teeth, their

Pecten opercularis, bile-like fluid in        origin and development, 1-52
    pouches, 414                           Purkinje on secreting function of part of

Pecloralina hebraica, a composite ani         the gland-ducts, 412

   mal, 360
Peptome, peptatome, terms of Goodsir's, Quadrate-juqal bone of bird, Owen's

86 analysis, 189

Periosteum as an element in formation
   and economy of bone, 463, 465, 470 Rabbit, follicular stage of dentition in,

Permanent teeth of independent origin,         53                    structure              on the
   51 ; developed from inner surface of
                                           Jiaia, tail of, peculiar
   cavities of reserve, 53
                                               sides of, 295

                                 2 51

-yj. 21                              INDEX.

Rathke on pituitary body, 82 ; on bran                        Scffiotrope  mo"vgemeneentrsa,l  260        "  re
   chial clefts and quadrilateral bodies                      Schonlein,                       pathology

on each side of chorda dorsalis, 89                           ferred to, 378

Ray, Hallman on the testicle of, 413 ; Schwann on the secreting organs of
                                                              mucous membranes, 412
tail of, 295
Reflection of light from bottom of eye, Sclerome of Goodsir, 85 ; in vertebrate
270 embryo, its sources and modes of

Reid (Dr. John) on placenta, obser                               origin, 88, 93 ; sclerotome, 85
   vations of, 457, 458                                       Screw-configuration of articular surfaces

Remak, observations on dorsal quadri                          of elbow, ankle, and calcaneo-astragi-
                                                              loid joints, 237 ; movements in knee-
   lateral bodies, 89, 90                                     joint, 243-245
Reproduction of lost parts in the crus
" Rtaecseear,veHda"rryanGdood"sirresotnri,ct4e7d1,"-47t5erms  Scrofulous disease of joint, 410
                                                              Secondary dental groove, 30-41 ; teeth,

employed in distinguishing the ar                             55

ticular elements in their respective Secreting structures, Goodsir's memoir

conditions, 247, 261                                          on, 412-428

Respiratory mucous membrane, electric Secretion differs from absorption mor

relations of, 322                                             phologically, 398

Retina, memoir on the, 265-272 ; how Secretions, three orders of, 423

light acts on the, 273-281                                    Semilunar cartilages of human knee-joint,

Retzian tubes of ivory, 61                                    their movements and relations, as ob

Retzius on microscopic structure of                           served by Goodsir, 227-229

dental substances, 62                                         Seminal secretion of decapod Crustacea,

Reymond (Du Bois), on the law of the                          development of, 427

muscular current, 324 ; electric cur Serous membranes, structure of, 436-43S

rents in nerves, 331-338                                      Serres, l'Anatomie et la Physiologie des

Rhinal sclerotome in mammals, 115 ;                           Dents, referred to, 22 ."

rudimentary in crocodiles, 117                                Shaft of a long bone, on the mode of re

Right angle, division of, enables artist                      production after death, 465

to get a proper succession of lines in Sharpey (Dr.), on impregnated uterus,

drawing, 214, 215                                             452 ; on the entozoa of nerves of had

Robin on organs in the tail of the ray                        dock and whiting, 496, 497

    fishes, 297                of bullets                     Sheep, follicular stage of dentition in,
                                                                 53 ; supra-renal, thymus, and thyroid
Robison (Sir John), specimens                                    bodies in the embryo of, 68 ; entozoon
   in ivory presented by, 56

Rods of retina, 265 ; seat of impression                      found in its brain, 487

of light, 269, 274 ; Goodsir's opinion Shells of molluscous animals examined

not nervous structures, 270, 274                              geometrically by Professor Moseley,

Root, electrical currents in, 313                             209

Rokitansky, on matter peculiar to typhus Simple eye, its physiological superiority
                                                              to compound eye, 281
fever, 378

Rudolphi on the troughs in gymnotus, Simplicity of natural law consists in the
292 ; on the prisms in torpedo and
                                                              comprehensiveness of its general prin

gymnotus, 301                                                 ciples, 185

Ruminants, follicular stage of dentition Skate, fusiform mass on each side of the

in, 53-55                                                     tail in, exhibiting all the structural

Ruysch figures bullets in ivory, 58                           characteristics of an electrical battery,

Saccular stage of dentition, 44                               295 ; nervous twigs, 299

Sartina ventriculi, history of a case in                      Slough in soft parts separated from

                                                              living textures, 406

which a fluid periodically ejected from Somatome of Goodsir, 84

the stomach- contained vegetable or Spear-head found in tusk of elephant, 64

ganisms of an undescribed form, 351- Spheroidal bodies on brain are entozoa,

371 ; definition of genus and species,                        495

361 ; how its form is produced, 211 Sphairidion acephaJocystis, 487, 492, 503

Savi on the elementary filaments of the Sphenoidal turbinated bones, 158
nerves in battery of electrical fishes, Spongiole of root of plant, an active

290 organ of growth and of absorption, 401

                  INDEX.                                                        523

Sqvalus cornubkus, testicle of, 416, 419-       mour, 504, 505 ; of the testis, de
                                                scription of a congenital one, 506,
422
                                                 507
Stages into which dentition is divided,      Turbinated shells, how their form is pro

43                                               duced, 211

Stark (Dr.) on organs in the tail of the     Turbines, the logarithmic spiral curve
    rays, 296, 297                              possessed by these shells ascertained
                                                by Professor Moseley, 209
Stomach : fluid ejected from the stomach
   of a patient which contained vegetable    Tusks of elephant, bullets and other
                                                 bodies inclosed in, 56-65
    organisms, 351, 371
                                             Tusk-pulp of elephant, wounding of, 60
Strix flammm, optic foramina in, 152         Twin-elements, what Professor Goodsir
Sun, his relations to the earth and other
                                                 means by term, 247
   planetary bodies, 206

Supra-oesophagal  ganglion, pre-stomal

    character of, 86                         Ulceration, nature of, 404-407 ; in ar
Supra-renal bodies, 66-77                       ticular cartilages, 408-411 ; of Peyer's
Syme (Professor) on the power of the            patches in continued fever, 372-378

   periosteum to form new bone, quoted,      Upper jaw dentition precedes that of
    465                                         lower jaw, 45

Symras/otome, synhaematome, synneura-        Uraster rubens, secreting organ in sto
   tome, terms of Goodsir's, 86
                                                 mach, 414
Synovial pads of the human knee-joint,
   their movements and relations, as         Urine, where first formed, 379
   observed by Goodsir, 227, 228             Uterus, mucous membranes of, 452 ;

Synpeptatome, syssclerotome, syssoma-           dissection of vessels, 457
   tome, terms of Goodsir's, 86
                                             Valentin, Handbuch, referred to, 11,
Teeth (human), origin and development
   of the pulps and sacs, 1-52               etc. ; on the structure of the laminae

Terms in morphology must be precise,         in batteries of electric fishes, 290,
                                             298 ; on the action of, 301
    84
                                             Vascular border in gum, 38
Thigh-muscles action of certain, 222 ;
   and leg rotate in opposite directions at  Vegetables, electrical phenomena in, 307-
   the close of extension and commence          318 ; organisms in fluid from stomach,
   ment of flexion, 234
                                             351-371
Thomson (Dr. Allen) on primitive con
    dition of gastric and intestinal gland,  Vertebra (typical), applicability and
    413 ; follicles of stomach and large
    intestine originally closed vesicles,    convenience of Professor Owen's terms,

     426                                     95

Thymus, how formed, 66-77 ; Sir Astley       Vertebrate type, on morphological rela
    Cooper ou, 74                               tions of nervous system in, 78-87

Thyroid, a portion of the membrana           Vertebrata, eye in, how acted on, 280
    intermedia of Reichert, 66
                                             Vestibules of ear, sound heard merely as
Tooth-sacs (permanent), 35
Tooth-substance, deposition of, in embryo        noise, 287

    of sixteenth week, 18, 34                Villi (intestinal), structure and functions
Torpedo, batteries in, 289 ; will of the
                                             of, 393-402
    fish, 302
                                             Vision, organ of, there are three funda
Transition-teeth, 55
                                             mental forms of, 273
 Triangulares (Crustacea), generative
    organs in, 429-433                       Vomer, its complete   development  in
                                                mammalia, 117
 Trichina spiralis, 493 ; Owen on its
                                             Vomerine sclerotome in mammals, 117 ;
    cyst, 494                                   in crocodiles, 118 ; in the lizards,
 Trojxeolum tuberosum, electrical currents
                                             119 ; in birds, 119, 120 ; in chelonian
    in tubers of, 313
Tufts of human placenta, 445-449             reptiles, 120, 121 ; in the osseous
Tulip, electric descending current at
                                             fishes, 121, 122
    time of flowering, 315
Tumour : description of an erectile tu       Waonek (Rudolph) on structure of ele
                                                mentary filaments of nerves in bat
                                                teries of electrical fishes, 290

                                             Walrus, substance in pulp-cavities of

                                                tusk, 62
                                             Walsh on the electricity of the torpedo,

524  INDEX.

    800 ; determined the shock to be of    Wilson (Dr. George), analysis of liquid
   the electric character in 1772, 318        in which the Sareina ventriculi »as
Wartmann on electric currents in vege          found, 861-370

    tables, 308, 314                       Wisdom-teeth, 40 ; sometimes decay at
Water decomposed by electricity of fish,
                                               an early period, 45
    342 ; condition of water surrounding   Wolffian bodies, formation of, 67
    the fish at the moment of discharge    Wollaston (Dr.) on the agency of elec
    of the electric organs, 343
                                              tricity on animal secretions referred
Weber : the brothers Weber on the me           to, 319
    chanism of the human knee-joint,
                                           Wounds in tusks of elephants, 63-65
    220, 231
White cellular layer of the retina, 266 ;  Yoaun"g   (Dr. Thomas)  on cochlea bong
                                                    micrometer of  sound," 287 ; on
    Bowman on, 268
                                           the electric force, 320
Will of the electric fish determines flow
                                           Zantedeschi's observations on electrical
    of nervous force into spaces of bat       condition of different plants when
                                               flowering, 315
    tery, 301
Wilson (Erasmus) on Echinococcus ho-

    minis, 480

     Printed by R. Clark, Edinburgh.

