Sketch of the life of James Keir, esq., F.R.S., with a selection from
his correspondence.

Keir, James, 1735-1820.
London, Printed by R.E. Taylor [1868]
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/nyp.33433081850194

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
          NYPL. RESEARCH LIBRARIE

||||3|4|3|3||0||8185019 4
   (3

              presented bs

Clevelanb Ib. Dobge

                         to tbc

IWew IPorfc public Xibran?
7

               _

                  ^C&i^t'     2^(4*2^  Æ'U1??>dt s'*Ss^&*

                           J

                  /
       SKETCH

                             OF THE LIFE OF

JAMES TKEIR, Esq., f.r.s.,

                   WITH A SELECTION
      FROM HIS CORRESPONDENCE.

   PRINTED FOR PRIVATE CIRCULATION.

                                   LONDON:

                  PRINTED BY ROBERT EDMUND TAYLOR,
                               ig, Old Street, Goswhi.l Road, E.C.
INTRODUCTORY LETTER.
     Upper Skilts,         1859.

          list September,

it,To James Keir Moilliet, Esq.
         My dear James Keir,

                            You know that my late dear friend,
your Father's excellent Mother, employed many hours
of her last long illness in the filial duty --as she felt it--
of putting into form some remembrances of her own
loved and revered Father's life and character. To vour-

self, in whom his line is directly continued and who bear
his name, this little domestic Memorial was affectionately
addressed. But within her own family, and beyond it

amongst friends of old time, were many who would, she

believed, both from regard for him whose worth she
commemorated, and for his own sake, read these Recol

lections with a kindly and thoughtful interest. That

they might be enabled to do so, she designed having her
Memorial Sketch printed for her private use and intended

giving copies of it through that selected circle. She
entrusted to me the carrying of her wish into effect -- and

placed her Manuscript for this purpose in my hands ;

with some Letters containing particulars of her Father's
6 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

family and of himself. On reading these over, I found
one old anecdote differently told; and much that I thought
might in one way or another be interesting, if added to

her own Record. She agreed to my representations, and
the Manuscript was recalled from the printer. Whilst
the required alterations were still under consideration, the
end that we had all long feared, and she had long desired,
came suddenly, and she was taken from us.

   Her wish, in regard to the Family Record, remained
confided to me. Many causes have interfered hitherto

with my discharge of a dear and sacred trust. This I am

now able to acquit, so far as regards yourself, by placing

before you, at full, three of the Letters of which I
have spoken, and the Memorial Sketch itself, such as

after much retouching, from time to time, by the vener
ated writer, she, at last, left it.

   By a letter from Mrs. Moilliet's Cousin, Miss
Magdalene Mowbray, dated Edinburgh, April $tk,
1820, to your Grandfather, Mr. Moilliet, then living
at Smethwick Grove, I see that Mr. Moilliet, at that

time, contemplated printing a Memoir, towards which he
had asked of Miss Mowbray details of information
concerning his Wife's family. She in this answer says,
that in an enclosed paper she sends " all the information

Irespecting our relatives which could remember from

Iconversations with my. Mother and Aunts, or which

have been able to collect from other sources," excusing
the scantiness of the additional information, "as the whole
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  7

of the old generation is gone." She then requests that
she may be allowed the opportunity of revising the

Memoir before it finally leaves the press ; but on the
specific design of the Memoir the letter throws no fur
ther light. The letter of Mr. Cunningham to which
Miss Mowbray refers is addressed to her Sister, Mrs.

Campbell, then living with her in Edinburgh. Still in

reference, I conceive, to the same intention, further infor

mation, as the ground of a Genealogical Table, was astced
and given. Whatsoever the particular purpose of this
Memoir may have been --perhaps a Life of your Great
Grandfather, Mr. Keir, preceded by some account of his

Ifamily -- the project appears to have been abandoned.

find, at least, no further trace of it.
   Many years later, when Mrs. Campbell was on a

visit to your Grandfather and Grandmother at Hamstead

Hall, some particulars mentioned in conversation by Mrs.
Campbell with regard to your Great-Great-Grandfather,

Mr. John Keir, had so much interested Mrs. Moilliet

that she requested to have them committed to writing.

Her wish was gratified by her Cousin.
   You will see, in Miss Mowbray's paper, mention made

of the profession for which your Great Grandfather, Mr.
Keir, was educated, and of the use which he made of

the knowledge so acquired in the emergencies of a very
different profession. In the Memoir which this letter ac

companies you will find the same subject again touched
upon. But in another manuscript paper of your Grand
 8 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

mother's I find that the use came home to himself under
 singular circumstances. I do not resist the temptation of
 transcribing what I am sure will for many reasons interest

 you. She has mentioned that her Father, soon after en

 tering the Army, was ordered with his Regiment to a

 station in the West Indies, and being there attacked by

 the endemic plague of the region -- the yellow fever--

was conveyed on board a Hospital-Ship. I quote from

 the manuscript: -- " From the little window of the cabin
 whei'e he lay he saw the Jharks tearing to pieces the
 bodies of his companions, who had died of the fame

 disease with which he was suffering. The sea was
 tinged with blood, and their mangled limbs were seen

floating on its surface. He had no friend to console
 him in this situation. The Army-Surgeon paid him

 a daily visit; and once, upon entering his cabin and ob

serving that he was deprived of the power ofspeech and
of motion, he exclaimed in a sorrowful voice -- 1 He is
gone too',-- and immediately left him. My Father

 however revived a little, and when a person came in

some time after, probably with the intention of throw

 ing his body overboard, he made a fegn that he wiflied
 to write, and a pencil being presented to him, he wrote

a request to have a certain quantity of Antimony,

 which was granted only from the persuasion that his

slate was hopeless, but to the surprise of every one he
recovered. The use of Antimony as a Medicine was
not then generally known." I have heard your Great
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  9

Grandfather mention how, in that illness, he lay with his

mind perfectly awake to all that was said or done about

him ; but, without the power to move, whilst knowing
from the conversation that went on, that without the sign,

the life was doomed.

   I stand now, my dear young friend, I hope, acquitted

to you. Some words remembering her, whose " Tribute

of a daughter's love " I am sending you, should rightly
go with it ; but who shall find them ? --A life-long and

affectionate intimacy revealed to me, through all the

changes and changing duties of life, her spirit --wise and

strong in love, meek, obedient, self-forgetting, studious

only for the welfare of others, large in intelligent sympa

thy, glad to approve, slow to condemn, searching out

grounds for the mitigating of censure, desiring above all
things truth of thought and of heart ;-- and, under the
pressure of sorrows and afflictions, many and severe, find

ing solace and calm in her aspiration towards that Heaven

where Love endures and Truth will be unveiled. Her
better Memorial lives in the cherishing hearts of those
who knew and loved her, and in such of her virtues as

yet flow onwards from her life, in her children, and in

their children.

Believe me, my dear James Keir,

                  Your's very affectionately,

                       ALEXANDER BLAIR.
-|}}}}*
                THE IMPERFECT

TRIBUTE OF A DAUGHTER

                                                            TO

              THE MEMORY

                                                             OF

 A BELOVED AND REVERED FATHER.
" Like leaves on trees the race of Man is found,

Now green in youth, now withering on the ground ;
Another race the following spring supplies,
They fall successive, and successive rise ;
So generations in their course decay ;
So flourish these when those are past away."
                                Abberley Hall,

                                                       January, 1857.

             Doctor Davy, in his Life of Sir Humphry
Davy, mentions, at page 78, the introduction of his
brother to your Great Grandfather, Mr. Keir, at that
time residing at Hill-Top, West Bromwich ; and the few-

words in which this is related, whilst they attest the

quick-sightedness of his young and gifted visitor, are

deeply touching and gratifying to me, mowing as they

do a high and just appreciation of my dear Father's richly
endowed and cultivated mind, kindliness of heart, and
that independence of character which is the natural off
spring of inflexible integrity.

   My Father was the youngest of eighteen children, and
was born eight years before the death of his Father, who

also was a man greatly respected for his talents and inde

pendent spirit. He carried this principle of independence

so far that, when a candidate for a seat in Parliament, he

lost his election by a single vote, from his determination

not to solicit any. His Widow, to meet the expenses of

bringing up so large a family, was obliged to have re

course to the sale of his landed property. My Father
14 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

was educated at the High School of Edinburgh, and
studied medicine at the University there, but selected the
Military profession for the sake of satisfying an early and
strong desire to see foreign countries. Whilst in the
Army, he was disappointed not to meet with more sym

pathy from his brother officers in his taste for reading
and self-cultivation ; and with one only he formed a

friendship, which however lasted to the end of his days.

This was with Mr. Blair, and it continues to glow in

the hearts of their descendants, soothing the trials of life

to the present hour.

   My Father, with the constancy of purpose which was
a marked feature of his character, used at this time to rise

at four every morning, and thus gain many hours for
study, without interfering with his daily duties, or the

pleasure or convenience of others. He read over again

the ancient classical authors and translated many passages

from the Greek military historian, Polybius. He also
wrote a treatise on the Art of War, but the M.S. was
unfortunately burnt at his Publisher's. It had however

been seen by some person high in position, and promotion
was assured to him in consequence had he chosen to re

main in the Army ; in which he only rose to the rank of
Captain. He preferred the tranquil pursuit of scientific

studies to a profession which was never in itself congenial

to his tastes. He was devoting himself chiefly to the
sciences of Geology and Chemistry at the time referred to
in Sir Humphry Davy's letter. He shrunk from
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  '5

celebrity ; and when some of his discoveries in Chemistry

were given to others, he did not claim them as his own,

saying to his friends -- "Knowledge is important; but

whether the discovery is made by one man or another is

not deserving of consideration." The instance which I

especially recollect was the discovery of the acidity of
carbonic acid gas, at that time called " fixed air."

    His conversation was not confined to scientific sub

jects, for the love of classical literature continued to the
close of his life, and cheered his solitude during its decline.
He retained the vigour of his mind to a very late period ;
and his society, sought by the eminent men of his day,

was equally pleasing to the young from the characteristic

urbanity of his manner, his never-failing cheerfulness, and
the vein of wit with which he often enlivened a grave
subject. To the more intelligent of his youthful hearers,

the interest which he took in their curiosity, and the sin

gular clearness with which he laid open the varied stores

of his own information, was peculiarly attractive. As life
advanced, the taste for the quietude of home naturally

grew upon him, and his thoughtful mind seemed more

than ever to retire into itself. Only his own nearest re
lations knew the strength and depth of his affections, for

they seemed in him to have called forth a corresponding

Istrength of self-command, such as never saw exceeded.
   I have touched upon some points of my Father's char

acter, in the belief that even so slight a Memorial will be

interesting to his descendants. I do not attempt, for I am
i6 THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

not able  to  wexaps.re--ss"  in words my own full remembrance
          he                   The strong and clear understanding
of what

which guided himself and counselled others ;-- the cau
tion in undertaking and the resolution in ailing ;-- the

uprightness of conduct, the promptness to oblige, and

the self respect, jealous of incurring an obligation ; the
devoted and indefatigable pursuit of knowledge ; the

reverent love of truth ; the candour, the humility, and
the respect for others, -- were apparent qualities, and
Itimpressed all who came around him.
                                                                            was this

union of the more energetic and the gentler virtues that
cscornibsteitdutheimd ,him' a, nasamSiiarbleHuamndphargyreDatavmyanh.a' s"
                                                                            truly  de
                                                                            *

In his last illness, when himself no longer able to read,

he used to    NcaellwupToenstahmis enfatit"hftuol   servant    to read to          him
                                                   instruct                         ex
out of the                                                   him." This

pression was characteristic of his mind.

May he remain an example to his youthful descendants,

studying to mould themselves ! May his worth live again

in them and in their children !

                                 AMELIA MOILLIET.

  * This sentence was written by Doctor Blair, bursting          through the slight
                                                                    It speaks what
veil that reverence and affection throw over near relationship.

I felt.-- A.M.
     APPENDIX.

The three following Letters are those alluded to in the
                            Introductory Letter.

                                                                                                                                           B
                   FIRST LETTER.

Mr. C. CUNNINGHAM to Miss CAMPBELL.

             14, Heriot Row, Edinburgh,

                                       3rd April, 1820.

Dear Madam,

                   Mr. John Keir, of Muiston Baxter,
Burgess of Edinburgh, was at various times a Member

of the Town Council of Edinburgh. He was Convener

of the Trades in the years 1729 and 1730. While
Trades Councillor in i727 he was a candidate for re

presenting the City in Parliament, and he lost his election

by one vote only, as appears by the Records of Council.
He must have been a person of considerable consequence;

and it is plain, from the last-mentioned circumstance, that

he was held in high estimation among his fellow citizens.

I have not had time to ascertain whether Mr. Keir was

oftener a Member of the Town Council than at the

periods above mentioned. He was never Convener of the

Trades except in the years above specified.

I am always, dear Madam,

To Miss Campbell,  Yours faithfully,

                          C. CUNNINGHAM.

Edinburgh.

                                             b2
20 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

SECOND LETTER.

Miss CAMPBELL to Mrs. JOHN LEWIS
                    MOILLIET.

                                            22nd July, 1837.

My dearest Cousin,

I with pleasure comply with your request,
Ito note down the circumstances
                                 mentioned to you re

lating to our Grandfather, Mr. Keir, of Muiston, in the

County of Stirling. This Gentleman resided in Edin

burgh in the early part of the last century, and was so

much respected by his fellow citizens as to induce them

to request that he would allow himself to be brought for
ward to represent them in Parliament. He accordingly

did so, and it was fully expected that he would have a
majority of the Town Council of the City, who were

then the electors ; but to his surprise he was visited early

in the morning of the election by a party of his friends,

who expressed their astonishment that he should be sleep

ing so late when all Edinburgh was in a bustle about

him. He expressed great surprise, and assured his friends

that he had never slept more calmly in his life. They
then told him that he must lose his election as one of the
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                          21

voters had been bribed over by the opposite party last:

night ;-- so by this man's treachery he lost his election.
When it was all over, the Duke of Argyle, who headed

the opposite party, invited Mr. Keir and his friends to

dine with him. After dinner, the Duke requested leave

to give a toast, and gave Mr. Keir's health; upon which
Mr. Keir, who was naturally eloquent, made a speech
which gave such satisfaction that the Duke of Argyle in
reply assured Mr. Keir that had he known his sentiments

as well before the election as he did now he never would

have opposed him, and concluded by offering him his

interest in future, adding that should Mr. Keir or his

family require any favour of Government he should al

ways feel most happy to second his wishes with all his

influence. Mr. Keir made a reply to the following
effect : "My Lord Duke, I feel much gratified by your
Grace's good opinion and very handsome offer. I be

came a candidate at this time at the request of my fellow

citizens, who thought me qualified to serve them in Par
I Iliament, but for myself had nothing to aslc.
                                                 have

maintained myself and family with all the comfort I
Icould wish, and hope by God's blessing to be able to

do so to the end ; but feel not the less obliged by your

Grace's condescension and unexpected offer of patronage,

and for which I beg your acceptance of my humble

thanks."

   Mr. Keir was as good as his word, he never alked
any favour; but a gentleman of the name of Kerr, a
22 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

fellow citizen, soon after applied for some situation un

der Government which he immediately got ; and it was

generally thought he owed his success, at the time, to his

being mistaken for Mr. Keir, whose name is usually
pronounced Kerr in England.

The person who accepted of the bribe was never able
                                              I was
to hold up his head in Edinburgh afterwards.

assured, my dear Madam, by a gentleman who had the

best access to know, that the fact of this election being
ost by the villany of one man is recorded in the books
of the Council of the Magistracy of Edinburgh to this

day.

      Believe me always,

             Yours affectionately,

      JEAN CAMPBELL.

   P.S. --Sor- John Madeni was the name of the artist
who painted the portraits of our Grandfather and Grand
mother, Mr. and Mrs. Keir. --J.C.
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  23

                                 THIRD LETTER.

      Miss MOWBRAY to JOHN LEWIS
                    MOILLIET, Eso^

                                             Edinburgh,

                                                    $th April, 1820.

   The immediate forefathers of Mr. James Keir were

for several generations Burgesies in Edinburgh, and from

connections, respectability of character, and opulence,

were justly considered as belonging to the first class of
citizens there.

   They were descended from a respectable family of that

name in Perthshire, whose lands bore the same name.

   His Father, Mr. John Keir, was born in 1686 and
died in 1743. He was esteemed a man of uncommon
abilities and of great integrity. He and his brother--
William --were both for many years Members of the
Town Council of Edinburgh, and were in high estima
tion for independent principles and rectitude of conduct.
John Keir, at the earnest solicitations of his fellow
citizens, stood candidate for Member of Parliament for

the City.
24 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

   He was possessed of two estates^--Muiston and Queens-
haugh-- both of which were sold after his death. He
married in 1708 Magdalene Lind, eldest daughter of
George Lind of Georgie, by whom he had eighteen

children, of whom James was the youngest.

   Mrs. Keir was of a lively temper, affectionate disposi

tion, and performed every domestic duty from strict and

steady principles. Perhaps the most striking feature in

her character was aclive benevolence, in which me was

Iequalled by few.  still remember her with tenderness;

and persons more aged, in whose memory she lives, speak

of her with a degree of esteem and veneration which

nothing but superior worth could call forth. She died at

the age of eighty-six, in full possession of all her faculties.

   Mr. James Keir was born 29th September, 1735.

As his Father died when he was very young, the care of

forming his mind devolved on his Mother. In directing

his studies she was no doubt advised by her two brothers,

Alexander Lind, of Georgie, Sheriff of the County, and
George Lind, Lord Provost of Edinburgh and Member

of Parliament for that City. He was educated at home,

as was the custom in Edinburgh, and attended the High

School, but under what master I have not been able to

learn. Intended for the Medical profession, he attended

the different Professors in the University, but at this dis

Itant period cannot ascertain their names. Having an

ample patrimony and several near relations in the learned

professions, there is no doubt he received every advantage

                                                                 i
              OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                     25

of education that Edinburgh could afford ; and he was
early distinguished for singular love of probity and truth,
love of learning, and constant application to study.

Having completed his medical studies, he went into the

Army, but what were his views in making this change

is not known. During the French war he was in active

service in the West Indies, where his medical skill in times

of sickness and difficulty was of service to the troops.

   The pamphlet you mention was a letter addressed to

the Marquis of Granby, signed " An Officer." I have

it,read and according to my recollection he argues in

            I

                      it
favour of the sales of commissions, as he says        ifthat

                                                              in
plan were annulled would deprive man declininga

health, or advancing in years, of retiring from his pro

fession, and would throw too great patronage the handsin

of the Minister.        hope this pamphlet will be found

among my Uncle's other papers, for remember Mrs.
                                          I

                                               a
Keir telling me that he had laid aside copy of every

one of his publications for his daughter when she should

come of age.      sincerly hope these did not suffer in the
              I

                                      is
destructive fire which there so much reason to lament.

   You will now naturally expect me to give some aca
count of the other branches of so large family merely

for the information of Mrs. Moilliet and your children.

Alas! with the exception of my Uncle (James, the
youngest of the family) they are all gone; and of the

second generation there remain only Mrs. Moilliet,
my sister, and myself. My other Uncles all died un
26 THE LATE JAMES KEiR.

married, indeed few of them reached middle life. My

eldest Uncle, who was bred a Banker, died before his
Father at the age of twenty-four ; another died in India.

One died when attending his medical education. Franci s,
Lieutenant in the Navy, born 1733, died in 1794. My
eldest Aunt married first to Mr. Dawson, Clergyman of

Saint Cuthbert, had one child, who died in infancy. She

married again, --to Mr. Nisbet, Writer, and Grandson to
Sir John Nisbet, of Dean, to whom she had no family.
My other Aunts all died unmarried. Your family, and

my late brother's only child lately married to Mr. Hall,

Counsellor in Dublin, are now the only descendants of the
third generation of Mr. John Keir.

   From Mr. William Keir (the brother of Mr. John
Keir) there are many descendants. One of his Sons left

a large family, who are all in this country, and in genteel

life. His other Son, Archibald Keir, left General Sir
William Keir, now in India, and Miss Keir.
                                       THE

  GENEALOGY

                         OF THE FAMILY OF

JAMES KEIR, Esq^, f.r.s.
   GENEALOGY OF THE KEIRS.

   The first of the Keir family that we have on record
is John De Keir, mentioned in a parchment register
formerly in the posieslion of Sir William Keir, and

which also gives the armorial bearings.

   " To all and sundry whom these presents do or may
         concern, John Campbell Hooke, of Bangaston,
          Esquire, Lion King of Arms, doth hereby certify

           and declare that the Ensign Armorial belonging

         and pertaining to Archibald Keir, Esquire, at
          Calcutta, in the Kingdom of Bengal, descended
         of the family of Keir, of Whitmore, in the
          County of Berwick, a cadet of the ancient family
         of John De Keir, who, with most of the nobility
          and gentry of Scotland, were compelled to submit

        to King Edward the First of England, Anno

           1296, is matriculated in the public Register of
          the Lion Office, and is blazoned as on the margin
          thus : -- Argent, on a cross ingrailed sable three

            lozenges or between four roses gules ; above the

            shield an helmet befitting his degree, with a man

          tle gules doubling argent ; and on a wreath of

            his colours is set for crest a man upon an ele

         phant, &c, &c." *

"  * Font's M.S. Nisbet,  ch.  25  :-- Crest,  a horse's head,  with bridle;  motto,
   Virtute et Valore."
3° LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

I. From John De Keir was lineally descended Adam
         KeirwIio married thedaughter of a Mt.Michell,
         by whom he had two Sons, William and John.
            Archibald Keir, the Son of William Keir,
         married the daughter of Mr. Bruce, of Kinlock,

            and was succeeded by his Son, General Sir

         William Keir, who added the name of Grant

            to his paternal surname.

            General Sir William Keir Grant was born

           in 177 1 ; entered the British Army in 1792;
          received the honour of the Order of Maria
           Theresa, as one of the eight officers who saved

         the Emperor of Austria from being taken pri

           soner by the enemy on the plains of the Cateau

            Cambresis, in 1794; he joined the Russian and
           Austrian Army in Italy in 1799, and participated
           in the campaigns of that and the two following
           years, including the battles of Novi, Rivoli, and

             Marengo ; he was subsequently fifteen years in

           India as Adjutant General. He was Major
           General on the staff, and Commander of the forces
           in Java ; he was also second member of the Go
           vernment of that island ; he commanded four
           different armies employed in India, on each of
           which occasions he received the thanks of the
           Indian Government, and on one of these occasions
           the thanks of Parliament also ; he was made a
           Knight Commander of the Bath in 1822, and a
OF THE LATE JAMES KEiR.                                              3*

            Lieutenant General in 1825 ; he became a General

         in 1 841 ; he was a G.C.H., a Grand Cross of the
          Order of the Lion and Sun, and a Baron of

          Austria ; he married in 1 8 1 1 the daughter of
          Captain Jackson of the Royal Navy; at the time
          of his death. May, 1852, he was Colonel of the

            Scotch Greys. *

II. John Keir, of Muiston and Queenshaugh, the se
         cond Son of Adam Keir, was born 28th August,

          1686, and died 5th May, 1743. He married
         Magdalene, the eldest daughter of George Lind
          of Georgie, near Edinburgh, who was Lord Pro
          vost, and Member of Parliament for that City.
          She was married the 21st April, 1708, by Mr.
          R. Sandelens, Minister of Hadow's Hall, in

           Edinburgh, from her Father's house at Georgie.

           They had eighteen children, eight sons and ten

         daughters, of whom --
            (1.) Christiana was the eldest. She was born

           28th August, 1709, and died 24th March, 17 10,

           being Friday betwixt 8 and 9 o'clock at night,

       fand was buried in the'Greyfriars upon the 25th.

            (2.) Jean Keir, born 12th September, 17 10,
         baptised on the 19th in the High Church of
         Edinburgh by Mr. James Webster, Minister in

   * Illustrated London News, zznd May, 1852.          the daughter  of Mr.

  t From a M.S. book of Dates, &c., by Mrs. Moilliet,

James Keir.
LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

the Tolbooth Church in Edinburgh. Witnesses,

George Warrender, George Lind, Adam

Keir, &c. Married to Mr. Dawson, June ist,

1732, and had one Son, born 30th May, 1733.
Mr. Dawson died 22nd January, 1735, and his

Son on the 3 rd February following. His widow
married Mr. Nisbet in March, 1742.

   (3.) Adam Keir, born on the Lord's day,

being 13 th January, 17 12, baptised the same day,

departed this life and was buried in the Greyfriars.

   (4.) George Keir, born 17th February, 17 13.
He died 26th August, 1737; buried in Grey

friars Churchyard.

   (5.) Magdalene Keir, born 6th August,
17 14. Died of the small-pox.

   (6.) Grizel Keir, born 2nd October, 17 16.

Baptised on the 7 th, being Sabbath, in the old

Church, by Mr. Mitchell. Witnesses, Sir

George Warrender of Lochhead, George
Lind of Georgie, &c, &c. Died 24th Decem

ber, 1788.

  (7.) John Keir was born on the 18th May,

17 1 8, being the Lord's day; baptised by
Chalmers, Minister in Canphier. Witnesses, Sir

G. Warrender, &c, &c.
   (8.) Margaret Keir, born 21st August,

17 1 9; baptised; same witnesses.  Died 16th

December, 1792.
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  33

   (9.) Elizabeth Keir, born upon the Lord's

day, 6th November, 1720; baptised; same wit
nesses. Died 31st December, 1802. With this

Aunt I corresponded many years, for she lived to

an advanced age.

   (10.) Magdalene Keir, born 27th July,

1722. Died 20th October, 1724; baptised pre

viously ; same witnesses. Buried in Greyfriars.

  (11.) William Keir, born 7th March, 1723

or 4. Died in the East Indies in May, 1760.

He was extremely loved by his family. A young
man of promising talents, lively, and who lived
much in society. He arrived at Bencoolon, 30th
September, 1757. He lived at Fort Marlboro'

2 years 7 months.

   (12.) Alexander Keir, born 7th July,

1725 ; died 7th January, 173 1.

   (13.) Katherine Keir, born 19th October,
1726; married to Mr. Mowbray, second son of

J. Mowbray, Esquire, Fifeshire. Died in 1808.

   (14.) Anna Keir, born 30th September,

1728 ; departed this life 19th January, 173 1.

   (15.) Adam Keir, born 24th February, 1730,

died 24th May, 1748.

   (16.) Helen Keir, born 23rd October, 1731 ;

she departed this life 17th October, 1733.

   (17.) Francis Keir, born 26th June, 1733,
was baptised upon the 27th by Mr. James

                                                                               c
34 THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

Dason, Minister of the West Church. Witnesses,

Alexander Lind of Georgie, Archibald Duff

of Drummoor, Esquire, &c. The kind and affec

tionate manners of my dear Uncle to me are still

vividly and gratefully remembered.  He died

           15th September, 1794, at Edinburgh.

III. C1^.) James Keir (my dear Father) was born

           upon Monday the 29th September, 1735, about
            nine o'clock in the morning, and was baptised in

           the old Church in Edinburgh on the Sabbath there

        after, being the 5th October, by Mr. Patrick
         Cumming, Minister. Witnesses, Alexander

         Lind of Georgie, Archibald Duff of Drum-
        moor, John Dickie, William Keir, and
         George Keir (his brothers). Died the nth

            October, 1820.

IV. Children of James and Susanna Keir :
            (1.) Francis, a fine boy, who died in infancy.
            (2.) Amelia, born 17th July, 1780. John

        Lewis Moilliet and Amelia Keir were mar

ried at West Bromwich Church by the Reverend

Mr. Jesse, on the 19th May, 1 801, and have

issue.
                                      A SELECTION

   FROM THE CORRESPONDENCE

                                                      OF

     JAMES KEIR, Esq., f.r.s.,

                           ARRANGED CHRONOLOGICALLY AS A

SUPPLEMENTARY MEMOIR.

                                                                                             C2
                 PREFACE.

   It having been determined that the foregoing pages

should be printed for private circulation, in accordance

with the expresied wish of the late Mrs. Moilliet, it be

came desirable to increase the interest of the Work by

adding thereto a selection from among the letters which

pasted between Mr. Keir and his friends.

    That the letters here given are but few in number is
owing to the fact that the largest and most valuable por
tion of them were consumed at the destructive fire which
occurred at Abberley Hall, Worcestershire, the residence

of my Grandmother, the late Mrs. Moilliet, on the 25th

day of December, 1845 5 when also a singularly beauti
ful silver coffee-pot, the gift of Mr. Boulton to Mrs.
Keir, was unfortunately destroyed.
3« PREFACE.

    These letters, which are selected as the least personal os

those now existing, -- but which, nevertheless, are of a
strictly private nature, -- are here arranged according to

Idate ; and have added a few connecting remarks or

notices in such places as seemed to need a little consecu-

tiveness or elucidation.

  I have only to add that there are several curious frag
ments of Works of Mr. Keir in manuscript, on Philo

sophical, Literary, and Political subjects, of which no

mention has been made in the following pages, as they

were left by him in a very incomplete form, and have no

relation to the circumstances of his life.

                          J. KEIR MOILLIET.

Cheyney Court,

            August 1868.
THE LATE JAMES KEIR, Eso^, f.r.s.

Miss Mowbray mentions that Mr. James Keir was

born the 29th September, 1735, and that, as his Father

died when he was very young, the care of forming his

mind devolved on his Mother, who was assisted by her

two brothers, Alexander and George Lind. In ano

ther manuscript it is said that Doctor Mich ell (a near

relative through his Grandmother, who was a Miss

Mich ell) also assisted in his education.  Doctor

Mich ell appears to have discovered in him, at an early

period, the promise of great intellectual ability ; and to

have taken every opportunity to cherissi his thirst for

knowledge. He died on the 28th October, 1751 ; and
in the hope, probably, of further awakening the zeal of

his young friend, he bequeathed to him, then only six

teen years of age, many of his valuable manuscripts,

which were said to     have been very remarkable for the
                       industry in collecting information "
"great research and

which they exhibited.
4° LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

   Whilst studying medicine at the Edinburgh University,

Mr. Keir became acquainted with Mr. Darwin -- after

wards the celebrated Doctor. The friendship between

them seems to have been mutual, and to have been main

tained unbroken from boyhood to the close of life.
   Alluding to Mr. Keir's having ultimately selected the

Army in preference to the Medical Profession, Miss

Mowbray says : " What were his views in making this
change is not known," but in Mrs. Moilliet's sketch of

Mr. Keir's life  this point  is cleared  up in   the following
                 Father was   educated   at the
words : " My                                     High School

of Edinburgh and studied medicine at the University

there, but selected the Military Profession for the fake of

satisfying an early and strong desire to see foreign coun
tries ; " and this statement is corroborated by a passage

in a Latin letter which Mr. Keir himself wrote, when a

youth of nineteen years of age, to his friend Mr. Darwin,

who was at that time a Bachelor of Medicine. The

passage alluded toin      the following transcript of the
        is,
            in
letter, printed italics.

       Mr. KEIR to Mr. ERASMUS DARWIN.S.

Viro multis nominibus mihi charislimo Erasmo Darwin, M.B.
                                            P. D.

                               Jacobus Keir.

    Amicissimas tuas non ita pridem lubens profectb accepi, ac-
ceptas diligenter perlegi, atque perpendi. Quæ verb super tuis
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  4*

observanda habeo, benigno accipe animo. Sed de Caufis prius,
quæ me literis latinis uti ut mallem impulerunt, quædam dicere

liceat quum quo in his exercitatione frequenti peritiores suturi

simus, tum et quod quæ nobismet ipsis nos impertiamus (im-
piorum, forte, et nimis piorum conspectu haud quidem violanda)
lingua minus nota velata melius laterent. Quanta enim et quo-
usque tendat, apud mulierculas præsertim, aliena sciendi cupido.
Sed hisce hactenus pariim diligentiæ adhibui. Et quoniam fert
animus, ut medicam aliquando carperem Lauream; dissertationem

inauguralem scripturo, istis incumbere acrilis omninb est neces-
sarium. Sed ad epistolam. Nulla sunt, quæ novi, experimenta
Hallesii, quibus corpora, aere resorpto, solidiora evadere constat.
Attamen, ex nupero quodam invento, Calcem, aere modo orbatam,

in vivam verti pro comperto habet Dr. Black, inde autem fit, ut
Calcem vivam sine ignis ope unquam parare pofsit Vir ingeniosus.
Hæc ver6 Calx (viva) soliditate perinde atque aere est orbata.

Etiamsi sit extra rem, haud tamen abs re erit, quædam de viribus
proferre, quibus ufa est Aqua Calcis, ut Calculum humanum solu-
tum reddat. Bina quæ fecit experimenta Halesius primum per-
pendi 1 cretæ albæ § 1, pari copia affuso oleo Vitrioli, aerem
statim multum generavit. 2 Eadem tamen Creta in Calcem verfa,
eodem affuso, aera haud parva quidem copia hausit, atque abfor-
buit. Inde, ni sailor, liquido fatis apparet, Calcem vivam vim

quandam aera hauriendi, qui an tea non fruebatur, acquirere. Sed
constat ex experimentis, quæ idem instituit Halesius, Calculi tum

 molem, tum et soliditatem ex aere, maximam partem pendere.
    Sed e diverticulo revertamus in viam. Argumenta vestra, quæ

 particulas frigidas existere probarent, evertere jam conamur,
 mutatis enim partibus, tu nostram tenes fententiam, vestram ego.

 1 mo. 'Si lenta congelatio aquæ fiat in vasculo,' inquit Muschen-
broehius, ' tum circa circumferentiam vasts orbiculariter incipit,

 ab hac medium versus emittuntur subtilissima quædam filamenta.
 Si quidem sæviente gelu, subitb conglaciat aqua, oritur primum in
                                   7r_|- - - - - --         - -|- G-- ---Is- *****    EN CE

---------------- --------------- ----------------------------------­---------- - -|- - ----------------------- ----- - ---------------------n--------i-s- ----:- ---l*--u-----s-----*---:--*E--*--------t:---------|-s----------------------------|-----------------*------~-----------~~--------|----------------------------->-------------~-----|*-------------|--------v-------------------------------r----~---------------:--~-~---r---~----:-----~-~-:--~~=---~---~---~----~=--------~--------------------~---*--=--~---V---=|v-----~--:=-----i-a~i-eT---------r---T------TI:r-n----r---e-.--n-ai----=---r-t~-v-i------.-----:------=~-i----tni--1-:s-.Ts-nn---tuan-n-|i--ii=r--nE-rt~tsset--s---i--ii-I-s|ii-ziiIu----gTt--:-~-n-T|--t-:idnTa:-s-tae:---it-:tT--I-enT-n--trene-T.Iz-Iusma-Icnil-ultriIinmIs1iPI--s-TIl-ttI-erIilTI-retluIIerieT-attetiITrItnIxTanaII-no-artTrn.atsE|iæzttrut--egeVTg-Itti-nTt--T|ln-:uue-Tsit-.Iiul-iaIrI-ai-iutei:n-T5a-ulT-ãtrvadti--io--rusi-E--ti-rnea-T-e-OtTe--NT-o-i-cm--AtteI-TfEi--ui-Teaut-i--D-NIx-T-o-tiTL-iTno-I-pIil-IE-a-nrluM2-piT-I,-q--l"nIyS-f-iitmI-uMleican-tu-ueu2.loAuiaLitnTct1Samlsois-idIssbXeDl.S-i:,,if--"l--*- -------- iu:t vel
                                                                                    -
   - - --         -                          --               -
                                                   -             --                II
                                                        -
                                         --                 --       -

                     -                     - --

-                    *                               -
                       -
                          -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tl

                          -

*          - - ----- -    -    ---

        -                   -

--                      --                 -

                           -                - --                            a
                                                       -
                                                         -                   I

           *--                     -       --
                -                               -
                                                                            ex ::
                     -*                         s isr                             IT
                                                           - --
                      --- -                                        -
                                -                                        -

:ss *-                             v. -    -
        -                               *
           - - -***-arv.                                                        -
                               s.        :~~  ****in**s-tit                         i

                                                                                           -
'its 'svs ss-in --> -in -a,                   ---.--.                       Tri.....s. n Prvs-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          p-  399.
                                                     as
                                                                            stamen aus: irrn de par
                                                     s

F'Siis Ts --> *s*ins arvus-, rar                                            sssssuntium efis In-Ei vide
<

 x Fir

               <

           -n a

                         : as

                                                      s
                                                    ,s

                                                             .:

                                            is

                                                        ir is
s- *ss as***
    siassen               airs     vesrs-Nr-unsaersrsaa-ssnnsnnseiessnsssvNenrucseu.snss.soInnFgseeutillt-etizioimdgneoiesrmleimpoeofbifsefeceti,r;

    Frvis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   de
rassis krinc sve
S-Y-i- r-rr -ir

iisr se~ssvitr-apaRdor*rtrauammnhiett=.sedel=eisvct=DiitdcreisaicaaPmsdeevVresorrlsceuaopsmrrripiesiosnreaaasptiuvsiDrqsseeunidrsseupsssreeancsvintsiniseeumsneespselpsaqeseuteistdsitepsaemten,arctmionifmledamrèmuproudeodamorroCi..
is

                       4

                                    -- ==
                                       s

                                                         se -
                      OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                                           43

hngtamTqfVcpfbneuteuhcrarbyiuuidaeormmootmutcobmoIqaiaeujtnnmlraencuaueiurpluonaedpbimrunrbileom.otatteætapundaæmiouenrosncmrpnoaiir.mr.misinaiirauntmpCætoiai)Zamaslomrsmihxo,cæt,e,tcmytCumiEepeefrocematmdfnpauaaeroomtmuxnvmaeiusinputicpnadetrrus,.elsiieqmiirtnladòctlahfonua.ulcoritemfisoimtettnuaseoroauPecUecc,rrdtGaada,tdteihitae,tsaefxtèteirvuyffppqmsamvafeoeqdtbaiHu,peReiqxrtuelrouetnietrunliuuetmrds,liboepuiaooiolesomtiæoeiqfac.otglr,CAttiirianaurharqui,nlaùiiq.ttmiapætiudqqan.esmauqluuutiut,miccanouciæràqDsuIsmbaapepv4mnuemgcqocimlnuop.msxdiuiueu;ocaerilarmgiujnooqnttcicumreiMrhoanpenuoctufaeseqearrn,rotrdiaibnæideicxuoqim,agacuæioiurolrumnifmemmnfeaitbheemttteneolmosurmlâiuiteonuasrtiiqsmidscaishfMtnmvgecluiu.cadiebnaieieLcmeaaoafrergeifùt.oarnlomelntri.aiiiomudbes.saesnosfronn,moi,r,e,danbfaaaaarp,tHubigutf3snulianetaueinbæiQutcmtrulrlixeniitùuiiouvlouvmiscpaatnmpraæ.scanenravtoioordrHliahrioeineitmfimsemoimnasnaceesv,t.IbinnetuhoxupeeenneoepsdnamndodleddhdriAsoeadtiirniieoecæiamvtr.vco(nanatiflapfenmtioa,aormoeobdstefreierlmi,mruouedbuorue2euarmnrrqiunctn.semrnroattfiucdeiis,tdènaeiaroIsiæasèr.nedifit
   Dabam Edinæ, Die Junii 25, 1755.
                                                   et

et                      et
                                                            te
   of a                                                  in de
                                                                           et
            his
    The reult    to of this change                     Mr. KEIR's profestion
                                                       as in
was voyage            the Wet Indies,                  where  was fmitten
                                                                 his
with the yellow fever, and ecaped                      death               he           medi

cine own precribing,                                                        in
dutory letter.                                                                 by
                                                                                     a
                                                       mentioned the intro

   On his return  athome he was ftationed with                     his Regi
ment, the 61st,        Bandon, Ireland; and
                                                              in     letter tO

                                                                  a
42 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

superficie lamella tenuis a pariete ad medium extensa.' Instat.
Physic, p. 396. Inde fit, ut si particulæ sint tales, adeo debent esse

subtiles ut vitrum permeare facile poffent. Deinde, rivos omnes ad
Fundum primum congelari, vel piscatoribus, similibusque animali-

bus aquaticis bene notum est. Attamen, paludibus cæterisque aquis

stagnantibus idem nequaquam usu evenit. (Dr. Plot's History of
Oxfordshire, Hale's Statics, vol. 2, p. 349). Præterea, quod
foliim sufficere posset, ' Aqua aere orbata, positaque sub vacuo, vel
in phiala sub dio, citius congelatur, aqua vulgaris tardius.' (Mus-

chenb. p. 390). Glaciem specifice esse aqua leviorem ita explicat
noster Reimarus. Aer aquæ intime mistus, et in ea quasi solutus,

parum molei incrementi adfert, uti vas aqua. plenum, falis tamen
cujufcunque copiam quandam nihilo fecilis recipere possit. Si

verb frigidæ particulæ aereas ex sua. cum aqua- unione intima ex-
pellant, in bullas tum colligitur aer, ac molem majorem, et speci
fice leviorem totam massam efficit. Hæc utcunque ingeniosissima,
quoniam parum veritatis continent, ex Muschenbroehii ejufdem

obfervationibus subverti facile possunt. At piget me quidem sub-

vertere. Quæ enim aqua aere orbata, et in vacuo posita, sine
bullis congelaverat, est etiam et hæc specifice levior ; fefe vi in-
genti expandit, et vitreas diffringit Phialas, Inst. Phys. p. 399.
Plus forte quam fatis jam hac de re. Attamen, quoniam de par-
ticulis frigidis fermo incident, non prætereundum esse mihi vide-

tur, glaciem plus frigere aere ambiente. Id fe Petropoli obfer-
vasse prodit Kraaftius. (Musch. 399). Nullam in ultimis meis de

modo fervandi per hyemem plantas exoticas mentionem feci ;
quoniam num aqua viribus electricis repleta congelefcere posset,
experiendi non fuisset occasio. Inventionem equidem laudo.

 Experimentis, quæ proposuisti, teste Reimaro, repetitis comperi
auram electricam per vitrum vires suas exerere posse, perinde ac
vis magnetica per corpora nullo sibi commercio juncta, ferrum
adtrahit. De adverfariis, aptius quidem, ut opinor, fequenti modo

possunt dividi 4 Volumina. 1. De re practica. In eo tum mor
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.           43

borum symptomata, si quæ sunt mirabilia, tum observationes

curatoriæ, tum et medicamti cujusdam vires sunt notanda. 2. In

hoc non modo Physiologia cum theoretica tum experimentalis, fed

etiam Chemia atque Anatomia agitentur. 3tio haud abfurde
nomen imponas de Re Clinica ; in quo Morborum Historiæ, quæ

tibi ipsi occurrant, vel et quas mirabiles legas, sunt omnes perscri-
bendæ. Ex hisce Historiis, quotquot sint observationes feu de

symptomate quodam parum vulgari, feu de singulari medicamenti

cujusdam eventu, vel aliud quicquid memorabilius in adverfaria

practica transferri debent 4. Miscellanea. Quæ experimenta
facere statuas, factis nequaquam commisce. Hæc deinde omnia

Volumina, tria certe priora. Indice uno generali ornas. Attamen

sit liberus, nullo affixus, ita enim erit haud parum commodior.

Titubantis amici Uxor uti plus pecuniæ quam antea retuli (nescio
quantum) marito assert, ita et plures annos.

   In proximis tuis quo temporo nobis Londini conveniendum

moneas. Cupiditate enim oudm maximd alienas invifendi terras
ardeo. Toedet me patrioe, arbis proefertim natalis. Ipso forte

temporis momento, quo hæc exaro, medicos aucuparis honores,

et quoniam nullus dubito quin confecutus eris, tibi de honoribus
gratulari liceat. Gratulor et generi humano, te in medicorum

numerum efse receptum.  Doctor amicissime, vale , et faluti

humanæ prospice.

Dabam Edinæ, Die Junii 25, 1755.

   The result of this change in Mr. Keir's profession

was a voyage to the West Indies, where he was smitten
with the yellow fever, and escaped his death by a medi

cine of his own prescribing, as mentioned in the intro

ductory letter.
   On his return home he was stationed with his Regi

ment, the 6 1st, at Bandon, Ireland; and in a letter to
44 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

Mrs. Darwin he gives a humorous description of the
people. The letter concludes thus : --

" If they were more luxurious, that     had greater number of
                                        is,
                                                  is a
wants to be supplied, they would be more industrious. Another

reason of the want of industry in Ireland               mentioned by Sir

William Temple; that the richness of the soil; for, in general,
is
                                is,
the foil richer and requires less culture than the soil of England,

by which means their necessities are supplied with less labour than

in England, where (even to procure the necesfaries of life) more

industry requisite.
   " am afraid, Madam,
I                                    have tired your patience.  find, too
           is           I               a

                                                         I

                                                                                             a
late indeed, that have undertaken subject too extensive for
               I

letter but must not however forget to mention the most agree

able part of every description, where they enter, -- the ladies. To
;

     I

fay they are more or less handsome than the English ladies, as

many do, would show prejudice, considering that they both are

nearly of the fame climate. As the men of this country have
               a
                                                                                                                a
certain impetuosity in their dispositions, which perhaps may be the

cause of their making so many blunders in converfation, so the

women have certain vivacity which influences their behaviour.

All women, fays Mr. Pope, are fond of pleasure, and perhaps so

much the fonder as they are the more restrained. Here they in

dulge themselves in their favorite passion perhaps more than in

England. The manners of the country allow greater freedom.
                                           a
They have not so much of that delicate reserve for which the    is

English women are remarkable amongst foreigners, and which

makes them better wives, less agreeable.
                  I

                        if

                               a
"This town (where now am), secluded by its situation from the

rest of the kingdom, retains character peculiar to itself. Gaming
seems to be not so much the amusement as the business of all sorts
of people. In this, the morning in this, the evening, daily
                                     ;

consumed. For this purpose alone they meet, and, that they may
OF THE LATE JAMES KEiR.                                    45

never want an opportunity of indulging their favorite passion, they

have a public card-meeting every night for the better sort of people

of both sexes ; and this in a town not so big as Lichfield. It

would be well if this spirit of play were confined to a people of no

Iemployment, but it infects the tradesman and the farmer.  am

told that at a fair in a neighbouring town it is not unusual for two

farmers to sit down to play a party at piquet for a stake of a hun
Idred bullocks.
                 need not fay much more of the character of

people devoted as they are to play, nor of the influence which that

close and jealous attention to their own interest, at the expense of

others, which constant play makes habitual, must have on their

minds. They are strangers to that hospitality for which the rest of

this kingdom is famed ; but instead of this hospitable disposition

they have been many years remarkable for another one of an op

posite kind, which is an inclination to quarrel. The Irish gentle

men value themselves much on a false and mistaken sense of honour,

which inclines them too readily to take offence. Hence there are

many more duels fought here than in England. In this town in

particular, they have been fond of showing their courage in the

Iduelling way, and am told that some years ago this quarrelsome

spirit was very troublesome to strangers ; now it has much abated,

Iand believe one may live among them without fear of his life.
IBy this time, Madam, fancy you are as tired of the people of
IGalway as am. But our fortunes are so far different : I, though

tired, am obliged to live amongst them ; you too are tired of them
Iand-- ' bless your stars,' that you're in Lichfield.
                                                       am, with much

esteem and regard, Madam,

Your most faithsul and obedient Servant,

                           JAMES KEIR.'
46 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

   The following letter addressed to Doctor Darwin
was probably written at the same time : --

                                     Bandon,

My dear Doctor,                      20th August, 1766.

I have delayed writing to you from month to month

for at least this half year past in expectation of being able to tell

I Iyou that should soon make you a visit ; but have not yet had it

in my power to give myself that pleasure. But to convince you

that my delay of writing did not proceed from any forgetsulness, I

Iheard about a year ago of an extraordinary medicine that have
Iever since kept in my memory that might acquaint you of it.
I IFor never hear of any thing curious of the scientific kind but
I Iwish could communicate it to you. The medicine mean is no

other than arfenicum album, which a gentleman of the Faculty told

me he had several times administered with entire success in old

and inveterate epilepsies, as also in old rheumatisms. It was given

from gr. fe. to gr. 1. finely levigated with flower of sulphur. The

person that told it me is one that has travelled a great deal, talks

much, and loves to raise admiration, but is with all that a very
I I Ihonest man.
remember mentioned to you when faw you at
ILichfield what had heard concerning the heat in Georgia, that

the thermometer rose considerably above the degree of human

heat, and that it sunk upon its application to the human body.

Lest you have not had an opportunity of seeing that paper of the

IPhil. Trans., I acquaint you that have since read and find to
a

             I

                                                            it
                                                                        is

                                                                                                        ?

                                                                                       it,
                                                                                             it

                                                                                                        it
                                                                                                                           is
be exactly as had related. Does this seem to prove that there

refrigerating principle in the human body, or could proceed

from the cold which may be supposed to be produced by the great

perspiration, in the fame manner as  by all sorts of evaporation

according to the experiments of Cullen Have you seen Doctor

McBride's book lately published on the Nature and Properties of
                 OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                                                       47

Fixed Air ? If you have, it is only my labour lojl, which is not

worth much. He proves, or attempts to prove by experiments,

that putrefaction ensues as soon as that vapour (called) fixed air es

Icapes from animal or vegetable substances (though know not why

it has been called fixed air, since it suffocates animals and has not

Iany property of air that remember), and that by the re-admission

of this vapour they recover their sweetness, -- for instance, a piece of

putrid meat suspended so as to receive and imbibe the vapour of a

fermenting mixture of animal and vegetable substances, or of acid

and alkali fermenting together. Upon this he supposes all anti-

septicifm to depend. The bark, for instance, generates a great
deal. He has a curious method of dissolving camphor and resins in

lime water, and afterwards, by precipitating the lime by means of
this vapour, he procures a solution of the resin in simple water. He

supposes the gout to proceed from too great a quantity of fixed

air, and prescribes for it lime water, which is highly absorbent of it.
He found likewise the petrifying waters to contain an earth ab

sorbent of fixed air, and therefore recommends it for the stone.

You fay that a man's disposition depends upon his food. Sir W.
Temple observes that all courageous animals are also carnivorous,

and that greater courage is to be expected from a people such as

the English, whose food is strong and hearty, than from the half-

starved commonalty of other countries. But on the other hand,

the Swedes, as well as other nations who eat little meat, are not in

ferior to any in point of courage ; and then how fierce the game

      is,
                   is

                                      I
                                                                                            !
                                                                                is,
cock  and all animals of pasture in the rutting season, or even

the most timid in defence of their young  That                                                 they are cou

rageous when any strong desire impels them. But that desire

seldom affects the graminivorous in comparison of the carnivorous

animal, who daily exposed to the impulse of hunger which can

not be fatisfied without the exertion of courage. Therefore the
Ifquestion seems to remain doubtsul.
                                          you have any particular

facts or reasonings upon this subject should be glad to be in

formed of them.
48 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

  IYou see what long letters write by emptying my budget of all
Ithe scraps of science can pick up, steal, or borrow ; while you,

from your too great abundance, are at a loss what to choose.

   Your picture of yourself in your last letter is so exact, that if

Iever you happen to be " stolen or strayed," make no doubt of
Ifinding you again by advertising it. am no painter, else you should
Ino longer have that excuse for short letters ; but am in some
I Ihopes shall be able to show you the original in a short time.

shall certainly be with you in a month or two, or else next summer.

If I come now, my principal, or rather sole inducement will be a
visit that I have long been desirous to make to you. Pray let me
Ihear soon from you, as shall certainly not long remain here, and

your letter may have some difficulty in catching me. Direct to
ICaptain Keir of the 61st Regiment, at Bandon, Ireland.
                                                              have

lately purchased a company, but was obliged to borrow so round a

Isum, that I know not but shall find it most expedient to sell out

on half-pay some time hence, except Mrs. Darwin can recommend

to me some Lichfield fair that has more money and love than wit

Please to make my best compliments to Mrs. Darwin,

And I am, my dear Doctor,

Your affectionate friend,

                  JAMES KEIR.

   About this time Mr. Keir seems to have written his
Treatise on the Art of War, but which was never pub-

limed, the manuscript having been accidentally burnt by

the publisher.

   He probably lest the Army at the time of or soon
aster his marriage with Miss Harvey (in 1770, though

it is impossible to fix accurately the date), and subse

quently lived at Birmingham.
OF THE LATE JAMES KEiR.                                       49

   The following letter appears to have been written to

Mrs. Darwin before his marriage ; but the original

manuscript is without date or address.

Mr. KEIR to Mrs. DARWIN.

I expected to have had an opportunity before this of sending

you my thanks for your letter by the Doctor, but he has not yet

favoured his friends at Birmingham with a visit.

The note you were so obliging as to enclose was --nothing less

than what you conjectured -- a billet dmix. It is so elegantly written

I Iand am so little accustomed to such favours, that cannot forbear
Iindulging my vanity.
                       theresore fend it to you for your perusal

and amusement ; and although you can have no occasion to write

upon that subject, yet perhaps you may not be displeased to see the
                                           IYou see what reason
very quintessence of love-letter-writing.

have to regret my misfortune in being absent when that note was

I Isent to your house, as fear that shall never discover the fair

it;

              I
author of and particularly as she appears to be possessed of such

uncommon qualities that despair of having my loss compensated.

For besides the good taste and discernment she shows upon the

present occasion, and which my modesty will not allow me to praise

sufficiently, although might here give her the preference to all
I

                                         \
                                            is

                                    I

                                                                             a

                                           it I
the ladies of my acquaintance, whose want of taste and discernment

in this instance, though otherwise not deficient in those qualities,

have often wondered at, and lamented -- besides these,  fay,

appears from her writing in verse that she  endowed with su

perior genius, and disdains to convey her elegant sentiments in

humble prose like ordinary mortals. From the mystic characters

that adorn the margin of her epistle, -- and which  suppose to be
I
                 I

                                                       a

                                    I

                                                                              D
                                                                                               is
possessed of some magic influence to excite mutual passion (the
effect of which already seel), conclude that my inamorata
                         LTFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

deeply skilled in the occult sciences. It appears also from the

scantiness of the paper employed, in an affair of no small conse
quence, that her economy and prudence are not inferior to her
learning and genius; and her ingenuity is no less to be admired in
discovering that method of making me acquainted with her econo
my, knowing that to be a virtue particularly agreeable to persons
of my country. As to the trifling mistakes in spelling and other

Iinaccuracies, impute all these to the force of her passion and

agitation of her mind, which prevented her from bestowing atten
tion upon small matters.

    Whoever they be who chose to amuse themselves by writing it

will be more than recompensed for their trouble if they had half the

Ipleasure in their conceit, as have had from the opportunity it

gave me of hearing from you and of assuring you that

                                          I am with, &c, &c,

                                                         JAMES KEIR.

   The next letter, which we insert here, is also without
date, but was probably written soon after his marriage.

           Mr. KEIR to DOCTOR DARWIN.

Dear Doctor,

Ieagerly.  I rejoice exceedingly that you study chemistry so

           expect soon to see a copper-plate representing the
forms of the first principles of bodies. I shall fend you to-morrow,

or next day, Vogel, Brownrigg, and the Essai fur la Putrefaction.

The remaining two books which I have of yours, Kunckel and
IFalconer, shall keep some time longer, with your leave , as the
         OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

former is merely a collection of receipts, and the latter, because I

suppose you have read lately, and contains little to your present

purpose.

  IThe books which think are of most consequence in the study

of chemistry are --

  (1.) All Stahss Works. They are large. The principal work

is Fundamenta Chymiæ Dogmaticæ et Experimentalis, 2 vols. 4to.

Norimb. 1746. In his Commentary upon Beccher you have the

foundation of the modern theory of chemistry. Much genius ap

pears in his writings.                                     I never faw                                                                     but

   (2.) Junkeri Conspectus Chymiæ, 2 vols. 4to.
         I

                           it

                                                     2

                                             a
                                                                                            is
                                                                                                a

                                                                                                  it,
from the frequent quotations, and from the character given by

other authors, believe to be very good book.

   (3.) Wallerius Mineralogie,  tomes, 8vo., in French,                                                                                    very
good book.

   (4.) Wallerii Chymiæ Phyfcca, vol.   1st., 8vo. The other                                                                               vols.
are not yet published.                  Pott, tomes., 8vo.

   (5.) Dissertations Chimiques de Mr.
                                V
                                                        4
   (6.) Memoires Chymiquts de Academie de Stockholm et 'Upsal,                                                                          d
   tomes, 8vo. Many excellent memoirs of Brandt, Wallerius, and
2

others.

   (7.) Memoires de Academie de Berlin, tomes, 8vo. These conF7
tain Margraafs most excellent dissertations and also some very

curious ones by Mr. Eller, together with much medicine, surgery,

&c. Price £1 1s. unbound.

   (8.) Opuscules Chimiques de M. Margraaf,                tomes, 8vo. All
     in
        it
                    a

                           of

                                           a

                                             2I
                                                   I2

                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                     2
these are contained in the former, excepting two small dissertations

on lapis lazuli, and on  method of purifying regulus of an

timony.

   (9.) Cramer's Art Affaying. This, believe, you have.

   (10.) Gellerfs Chymie Metallurgiqm,     tomes, 8vo. Nothing

new      but method of assaying ores, which have inserted in
52 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

the notes to the Dictionary. He has also a large table of affinities.
The processes are told more concisely but not more accurately

than in Cramer. It contains also some experiments to show the

different densities of some metallic alloys, how much they exceed
or are less than the intermediate density of the compound metals.

   (1 1.) Swedenborgii Principia Rerum Naturalium, 3 tomes, folio.

I never saw any of this voluminous book but his Treatise on Iron,

which contains a most minute and accurate description of the

methods used in most parts of Europe of smelting iron ore, and

of forging iron, of conversion into steel, and everything relating to
Ifit which is known.
                      he is as copious upon other subjects, it

must be a treasure of knowledge.

(12.) Schluter's Traite dt Mines, by Hellot, 2 tomes, 4to. This

book contains descriptions of the methods used in Germany for

smelting ores of lead, silver, copper, and gold, with plates of fur

naces, &c. It is very valuable    to commercial  metallurgists.  Is
very dear, -- at least £2 2s.

(13). JsenkePs Pyritologie, in French, 4to. A large tedious

book.

(14.) Teychmeyeri Institutiones Chetnicoe. Contains many curi

ous experiments on Mercurification.  *           # At

# **

IOther subjects commonly supposed to be alchemical, but believe

you will have them all in Junker.

  I shall send you some bismuth, and some zaffre, from which you

may extract regulus of cobalt, by fusing it with alkaline falt and a

little charcoal dust, by which you will get a blue glass, similar to

the smalt of the mops, a regulus of cobalt, and probably a regulus

of bismuth adhering to the upper or under surface (I forget which).
INickel is not to be got for love or money.
                                                 am glad that you

propose soon to be here.
                  OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                          53

   In 1775, or before, Mr. Keir appears to have com

menced business as a glass manufacturer, at Stourbridge,

near Birmingham. A paper of his "On the Crystalliza

tions observed on Glass" was communicated to the Royal

Society by his friend, G. Fordyce, M.D., F.R.S. It is

published in the Philosophical Transactions on 23rd

May, 1776. The following letter alludes to it : --

   Mr. KEIR to Mr. CHARLES DARWIN.

                                Stourbridge,

                                                     znd May, 1776.

   My dear Sir,

              I received your epistle and should have longed much
Ito hear from you before, if had not frequently seen your Father,

who assured me to my great joy that you were alive and well.
   I was in London when your letter came, and have since most
Iunfortunately mislaid it.
                             have been searching for it this week

past, with a view to answerI
                               it,

                                      I
                                                     I

                                                        I
                             amongst my most valuable and curi

ous papers, but in vain.     am afraid of delaying longer, lest you

should be setting out upon your return home, which was very

happy to hear was your intention, as hope to be feasted with the

golden sentences of the Philosophers of the North.   have given

a paper to the Royal Society concerning the crystallization of glass,
which the Philosophers of the South were pleased to think a very

curious fact.     am inclined to think that  it      not precipitation
               I                                 is  a
                                                               is
or separation of peculiar parts, as you fay  it      appeared to be to

Doctor Black, because the whole quantity of the glass capable

of being thus crystallized, by sufficiently long continuance of
                             a
54 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

heat, excepting about Ath part which is evaporated during the

time necessary to convert the whole of the glass into a white opaque

                                                      by violent
substance ; and because this white opaque substance  is,

heat, convertible into transparent glass, which may be again crysI

tallized, and so on.

   Your godson increases in dimensions, and shows daily such
proofs of fagacity as surprise his Father and Mother, &c. -- sup

pose nobody else. You may soon expect to be required to ad

minister some of those pious instructions which you are in duty

bound to give.  I     wish you may be able to insuse into him some of

your thirst for knowledge.                            Ilong to

  Mrs. Keir desires her compliments and good wishes.

fee you, and am,

                         My dear Charles,

                         Yours most affectionately,

                                                         JAMES KEIR.

Mr. Charles Darwin,

      Student of Medicine in the College of Edinburgh.

M.EaMralycquiner1's77"6   Mr. Keir     completed his translation of

                         Dictionnaire   de Chimie," with additions,

notes, &c. A copy was forwarded to the author, of
                         reply --
which the following
la
Monsieur,  je

                         ;

                              je
                                       is
                                           a

                                                                          :

                                                                  il

                                                                                                     2
                                                                                             a

                                                                                          in

                                                                                                                               ;
                                                                                                                                                            si
    J'ai regu dans son temps un exemplaire en vol. 4to. d'une
traduction en Anglois du Dictionnaire de Chimie, avec des additions

et des notes j'ai eu l'honneur de vous écrire ce sujet mais

comme      ne favois pas bien votre adresse,  est possible que ma

lettre ne vous soit pas parvenue. Ne fachant malheureusement pas

langue Angloise,         ne puis vous dire d'apres moi-meme la
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  55

traduction est comme vous la desiriez, mais j'ai fait traduire toutes
les notes qui contiennent les additions et je puis vous assurer
d'après la lecture que j'en ai faite avec le plus grand plaisir, qu'il
n'est pas possible que la traduction du texte ne soit parfaitement
bien. Les notes étoient l'objet qui m'intereffoit le plus à cause de

l'avantage que j'en pouvois tirer pour l'amélioration d'une nouvelle
édition : je travaille en effet présentement à cette nouvelle édition
qui est sous presse ; elle sera beaucoup corrigée et augmentée et
vous verrez Monsieur que des observations aussi sensées et aussi

intéressantes que sont les vôtres peuvent contribuer infiniment à la
perfection d'un ouvrage.

   J'ai l'honneur de vous prévenir qu'il y a cependant un assez
grand nombre de notes que je n'ai point employées, pour ne point

trop grossir la nouvelle édition. Ce sont celles qui m'ont paru avoir
plus de rapport à l'histoire naturelle et à celle des drogues simples
qu'à la chimie, à l'egard de celles qui sont plus intimement liées à
cette science, je m'en sers avec reconnoissance et en vous citant,
comme cela est bien juste. Nous concourons en cela, vous et moi,

au même but, et vous me donnez Monsieur une nouvelle preuve

de votre estime à laquelle je suis bien sensible en me propofant

de traduire la nouvelle édition, à laquelle vous avez vous-
même une très bonne part. Vous vous êtes acquis des droits

fur cet ouvrage et en vous donnant toutes les facilités qui
dépendront de moi pour la traduction que vous vous proposez de
faire je ne ferai, à proprement parler, que vous rendre une partie
de ce qui vous appartient.

   Je ne manquerai pas de vous envoyer les feuilles de la nouvelle

édition, à mesure qu'elles seront tirées ; mais nous aurons quelque
temps pour cela car l'impression, quoique commencée il y a déjà
quelque temps, est encore très peu avancée à cause de différentes

circonstances qui l'ont retardée. Je vais me concerter avec mon

libraire (le Sr. Didot le jeune, Quai des Augustins) pour vous faire
un premier envoi le plus tôt qu'il sera possible, mais ce sera à con
56 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

dition que vous en userez librement, en traduifant, que vous
voudrez bien y joindre vos propre remarques et m'en faire part à
fin que j'en puisse profiter d'une manière ou d'une autre même pour
cette nouvelle édition. J'ai l'honneur d'être avec toute l'estime et
la reconnaissance que je vous dois, Monsieur,

                      Votre très humble et très obéissant serviteur,

                            MACQUER.

à Paris, le 28 Mars, 1776.

   P.S. -- Comme vous n'avez pas mis votre nom à la première
édition, je n'ai pu vous nommer, mais simplement vous désigner en

vous citant ; faites moi le plaisir de me mander, si vous trouvez
bon que je vous nomme soit dans l'avertissement, soit dans les
citations, qui ne font point encore imprimées.

   Mr. Keir was on terms of great intimacy with Mr.
Boulton, of Soho, who made Mrs. Keir a very hand

some wedding present when he and his wife finally set

tled in Birmingham. This is alluded to in the following
letter which was written on the 1st March, 1777 : --

                  Mr. BOULTON to Mr. KEIR.

    Dear Sir,

             I sent you about a fortnight ago some gilt scraps and

some plated scraps, which are so regular and uniform in their good
ness as to afford the means of making accurate comparisons of
different modes of refining. We have now a largequantity upon hand
of both gilt and plated scraps, and therefore mould be glad, if your
       OF THE LATE JAMES KEiR.                                    57

method answers to your fatisfaction, to fend them to you. Mr.

Jackson's report of the plate  is,      remember right,   of silver
in the pound.                                            8J
                                 a iIf
                                                               a
   About week ago sent in box directed for you silver
   Ia             I

coffee-pot and lamp, which beg you'll do me the favour to permitI

Mrs. Keir to so far indulge me to accept as token of my love --Iit

  believe had better fay-- for her husband and yet, in spite ofis;
                                                  aa
the mischievous graces, Mrs. Keir so good woman that can
                                                          I

not fee any impropriety in her receiving    as an offering made by
me to all the female virtues.

   Pray, where were you the last sull moon? hope you were not in
                                          if
fluenced by any influenza to stay at home.      faw Darwin yester
                                            II
day, at Lichfield. He desires to know you will come to Soho

on Sunday, the 3rd March, in which cafe he will not fail to meet
you, although he fays he has inoculated some children which will
probably be ill about that time. Yet you will come he will be at
                     I

                              if
Soho by eleven o'clock, when propose to make several motions

to the members. Pray God bless your fire-side, and preserve       it

from smoking and falling chimneys, and every other terrestrial evil.

       I          am, dear Sir,

                     Yours sincerely and affectionately,

                                        MATTHEW BOULTON.

James Keir, Esq.

   Mr. Keir first became acquainted with Mr. Watt in

the autumn of 1768. In Mr. Muirhead's "Life of
Watt," page 173,     said that when Mr. Watt came
                  a it
                      is

                                        a

                                                                                                             ;
for the first time on visit to Mr. Boulton's house, near

Birmingham, where he stayed fortnight, Dr. Small,
Dr. Darwin, and Mr. Keir, were asked to meet him
58 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

and Mr. Muirhead adds, that Mr. Keir was the "wit,
the man of the world, the finished gentleman, who gave
life and animation to the party," and whom Mr. Watt
calls "a mighty chemist, and a very agreeable man."
The correspondence between Mr. Watt and Mr. Keir
was in all probability both large and of a very interesting
character, and it is much to be regretted that none of it

can be here furnished.

   Mr. Muirhead, writing on the 31st July, 1868,
to the Author of this Supplementary Memoir, says : --

Dear Sir,

               I am sure no apology was necessary for your letter of
Ithe 28th inst., received here this morning, and rejoice to hear of

the good work you are undertaking in editing, for private circulation,
Ithe correspondence you mention.
                                  wish much that it had been in

my power to have aided your purpose by any letters or other docu

Iments ; but it is not so, as will at once more particularly explain

to you. (1.) It is true, as you fay, that in my Life of James Watt

I have frequently mentioned Mr. Keir ; but, as you may also

have observed, the notices are short and slight, and are so because

I could find no materials for making them more important. A note

at p. 92 of my translation of " Arago's Eloge of Watt," 1839, you

Iprobably also know ; and those few lines really embody all that

could find sufficiently peculiar and characteristic to require notice.

INeither do recollect any letters from Mr. Keir being among

those gone over by me while engaged in writing Mr. Watt's Life,

Ialthough the few occasional expressions have given show the high

esteem Mr. Keir's neighbours and friends had for his abilities and

kindly disposition. But (2.) had such letters existed, and been
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  59

ever so numerous, among Mr. Watt's papers, they could not at

present have been made available for your use, or even inspection ;

for Mr. James Gibson Watt, the tenant for life of the late Mr.
Watt's large estates, has objected to pay the legacy duty on his

succession (!), and because his trustees had to do so on his behalf
to avoid the usual threatened prosecution in Exchequer, he has filed
a bill in Chancery against them, praying that the legacy duty on
his succession may be difallowed to the trustees in their accounts.

In consequence of this strange proceeding the whole of the papers
connected with Mr. Watt's estate are now deposited in Chancery,

and of course it is impossible for any one to fay when they will be
released. Wishing you every sort of success in your interesting

scheme,

                       I remain, dear Sir,

                                                   Truly yours,

JAMES P. MUIRHEAD.

   In the year 1765 Dr. William Small went to re

side in Birmingham, leaving America on account of ill
health. He was introduced to Mr. Boulton by the

celebrated Benjamin Franklin, and became one of

Mr. Keir's most intimate and honoured friends. Mr.

Keir speaks of him with a high and critical appreciation

in his " Account of the Life and Writings of Thomas
Day, Esq.," published some years after. In this volume,
which is now out of print, are also to be found many in

teresting biographical notices of this most singular man,
which are quoted as follows : --
6o LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

   (P. 3). "Dr. Small was born in the year 1734, at Carmylie,

in the county of Angus, in Scotland, of which place his Father
was Minister. He was appointed Professor of Natural Philosophy
in the University of Williamsburg, in Virginia, where he resided a
few years. He died in 1775 at Birmingham, where he had prac
tised medicine several years, and where he had acquired great repu
tation and esteem. He, as also Mr. Day, died at the age of 41."

   (P. 29). " While Mr. Day was thus following, according to his
own expression, 'the extravagancies of a warm heart and of a strong
imagination,' he became acquainted with a gentleman of very un
common merit, who being, by the singular accuracy of his ideas,
and of his knowledge of men and things, peculiarly adapted to
correct the romantic bias of a youthful imagination, had certainly,

during the intimacy and friendship which gradually took place be
tween them, great influence on his opinions. This gentleman was

Dr. William Small, a physician in Birmingham, who, to the most

extensive, various, and accurate knowledge, in the sciences, in litera

ture, and in life, joined engaging manners, a most exact conduct, a
liberality of sentiment, and an enlightened humanity. Being a
great master in the exact sciences, he seemed to carry their regu
larity and precision into his reasonings and opinions on all other
subjects. This correctness of judgment placed Dr. Small as the
very antipode of Rousseau, by whom all objects were seen through
a medium of enthusiasm, which disturbed their forms and falsified

their colours with some prismatic tinge. On the other hand, Dr.
Small leaned perhaps somewhat to the opposite extreme, and too

strictly analysed human affairs ; so that, although they were reflected
by his mind with the most perfect and exact outlines, the pictures

were too void of colour. 'Nil admirarV was his favourite motto;

which however he afterwards, as his health and spirits declined,
changed to one of a darker cast, fir) <Pwm, the two first words

of a line of Euripides, expressing that it would have been better
not to have been born. Mr. Day had, indeed, at this early period
              OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  61

of his life, enthusiasm to spare ; and Dr. Small thought he could

not do his younger friend more service than by controlling his ima

gination and correcting his views ; although it may be considered
still as a problem, not very easy of solution, to determine what por
tion of a virtuous enthusiasm may be extinguislied with benefit to

mankind. For although our exertions may not equal our wishes or

expectations, yet probably we shall not attain the greatest height at

which we are capable of arriving unless we aim at a still higher

quarry. The eagle can never reach the fun, yet by the boldness of

the attempt he may acquire a strength of flight peculiar to himself.
On the other hand, too much divested of enthusiasm, Dr. Small,

although possessed of various and eminent talents to instruct man
kind, has left no trace behind of all that store of knowledge and

observation which he had acquired, and from which his friends

never left him without drawing fresh information. He lives only
in the memory of those friends who knew his worth, and of the

poor, whom his humane skill was ever ready to rescue from disease

and pain."    " So strong was his (Mr. Day's) affection, that not
    (P. 92).

withstanding the fortitude with which he resisted all ordinary occur

rences, a loss which he sustained in his youth, by the death of a highly

valued friend, Dr. Small, left a gloom on his mind which a period

of two years did not dispel, and which yielded only to a more ten

der connection, which then happily began to engage all his affec

tions, and which not only restored but also secured his ferenity and
cheersulness during the remainder of his life. Mr. Day was at

Brussels in 1774, when he heard that Dr. Small was seized with a

fever. He flew with anxious haste to England, and arrived in

Birmingham a few hours after his friend had expired. The following
pathetic lines, in which he afterwards gave vent to his sorrow, will

show the fensibility with which he regretted the loss of this valuable

man, whom he venerated as the friend and guide of his youth, and
62 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

whose death he considered as the severest stroke that fortune could

then have inflicted :--

           Beyond the rage of Time or Fortune's power
            Remain, cold stone ! remain, and mark the hour
           When all the noblest gifts which Heaven e'er gave
            Were centered in a dark untimely grave.
            Oh, taught on Reason's boldest wings to rife,
           And catch each glimmering of the opening skies !
            Oh, gentle bosom ! Oh, unsullied mind !
            Oh, friend to truth, to virtue, and mankind !
           Thy dear remains we trust to this fad shrine,
           Secure to feel no second loss like thine."

   (P. m). "Dr. Small's memory was honoured not only by

the very pathetic epitaph written by Mr. Day, but also by the fol
lowing lines which the physician, who had attended him in his last
illness, and who had strove to fave his life with all the skill which
the art of medicine affords, and with a zeal which friendship and
esteem inspired, inscribed in a grove that another friend had dedi
cated to the memory of the deceased :--

          Ye gay and young, who, thoughtless of your doom,
               Shun the disgustsul mansions of the dead,

            Where melancholy broods o'er many a tomb,
               Mould'ring beneath the yew's unwholesome shade ;

        If chance ye enter these sequestered groves,

               And day's bright sun-shine for a while forego,
           O leave to Folly's cheek the laughs and loves,

               And give one hour to philosophic woe !
           Here, while no titled dust, no fainted bone,

               No lover bending over beauty's bier,
           No warrior frowning in historic stone,

                 Extorts your praises or requests your tear ;
          OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  63

           Cold contemplation leans her aching head,
              On human woe the steady eye she turns,

            Waves her meek hand, and sighs for Science dead,

             For Science, Virtue, and for Small she mourns.

   A better testimony cannot be given of Dr. Small's great worth

than the praises bestowed on him by such men as Mr. Day and
the author of the above lines, who, by the composition of these,
and more especially of that exquisite poem, " The Botanic
Garden," in which the Graces themselves seem to decorate the
Temple of Science with their choicest wreaths and sweetest blos

soms, appear to give a sanction to the ancient mythology, which
made the fame Apollo the god of physic and of song."

    Mr. Keir gave up all connection with the glass

manufactory at Stourbridge early in the year 1778 ; and

this for the purpose of joining partnership with Messrs.

Boulton and Watt. The latter part of the plan

however fell through ; for Mr. Keir, who had lately

married and did not therefore feel himself open to engage

in  any   gr"eaLtivreilsk,  declined the connection. Mr. Smiles,
in   his                    of Boulton and Watt," mentions

how, in the month of October, 1778, the Soho firm was

in a state of great embarrassment. Mr. Watt was at

that time absent, and it became necessary for Mr.

Boulton also to leave, so that by his personal presence

he might secure from his friends the help he stood so

much in need of. In this emergency, with no one to at

tend to the business, Mr. Keir undertook the sole charge

of these extensive works. With a fuller acquaintance

of the position of the firm came a greater disinclination
64 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

to take upon himself a share of their general liabilities.
He therefore limited his connection with the firm to the

Letter Copying Machine business. This was an inven

tion of Mr. Watt in 1778, which was not patented till
the year 1780; and Mr. Keir undertook the manage
ment of it. Mr. Smiles says: " The Letter Copying

Machine gradually and steadily made its way, until at

length there was scarcely a house of any extensive busi

ness transactions in which it was not to be found."

   In 1777 Mr. Keir had published his " Treatise on

the different kinds of Elastic Fluids or Gases." It

appears to have been very highly thought of, and in

1779 a new edition of it was called for. Of this new

edition mention is made in the following letter, which

however bears no date : --

JAMES KEIR, Esq., to DOCTOR DARWIN.

Dear Doctor,

              The best method of getting the animal, that is

the phosphoric, acid is that lately discovered by Mr. Scheele, a
Swedish chemist, and is as follows :--

Dissolve the powder of calcined bones in weak nitrous acid.

Add to the faturated solution some vitriolic acid till no more sele-

nites is precipitated. Pour off the liquor from the selenitic powder,

and evaporate it in glass vessels by heat to the consistence required.

By this evaporation the nitrous acid will be expelled and the phos
Ifphoric acid will remain in the liquor.
                                          charcoal powder be added

to this phosphoric acid and distilled with a strong heat, in close

vessels, with water in the receiver, a phosphorus will be obtained.
                  OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                                             65

If your apothecary cannot prepare                               will but the disease
                          a
                                          (?)

                                               a

                                         is iIt,
                                                                it ;
                                                                it, if
                                                                                                   is
considered merely in chemical light, does not proceed rather

from a superfluity of acid than deficiency of since we know

that any acid softens bones              and not the most probable me

thod of cure to give such substances as combine with acids and

destroy their power? Of these substances, oils and alkalies seem

the fittest, and may be given jointly in soap. Egg-shells cannot be

burnt to lime till they have been dissolved in an acid, and precipi
Iftated by an alkali.
                          the alkali caustic, the precipitate will be
                                         is

                                               I

                                                                      it
                                                                         it is
caustic and mild, the precipitate may be burnt to lime. When
       ;

              if

                      is
the animal acid separated from bones, the remainder mere cal

careous earth. The acid obtained from bones, although certainly

consists principally of phosphoric acid, yet believe also contains

some of the vitriolic or nitrous acid employed in the operation, be

cause  it      more deliquescent than the acid collected from burning
           is

phosphorus.

   Mr. Boulton set out this day on a journey to Cornwall, where
he will probably remain three weeks. He has been so much ab

sent from home, and when at home in such whirlpool of business,
                                                                a

that there has scarcely been even Sunday which could be devoted
I
              I

                          I

                                                        a
                                                             a
to Philosophy and Doflor Darwin.

   long much to see you.                 have two spare beds in my house,

and should be happy to see Mr. Bob whenever the rules of his

school permit.     can tell you good deal of philosophical news
when we meet.     Pure air may be obtained from a variety of sub

stances, as turbith mineral, green vitriol, manganese, lapis calami-

naris, wolfram, &c. A substance          is  discovered which, when applied

to a given quantity of air, devours the air, and makes perfect
                                                                   E II a
vacuum, as will show to you when you come to Winson Green.                 I
      am just publishing new edition of my " Treatise on Gas."

If you have read with attention enough to discover its faults,
I              I

                           it
                                      a

shall be much obliged to you for your remarks. When was last

at Lichfield left with you the last vol. of Rozier, which had not
               I
66 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

Ilooked into, and should be obliged to you to send it to me, as it

may contain something relative to my subject.

                                                    Adieu,

                                                      Yours affectionately,

                                                                J. KEIR.

  P.S. -- Mrs. Keir desires to join in best compliments to you and

Mr. Erasmus, and to Mr. Bob, and promises Mr. Bob, if he will
come to Winfon Green, that he shall have the pleasure of Soho,

without being lectured.

   In 1779   Mr. Keir invented and        took out a patent
             " capable of being forged    or wrought when
for a metal

red-hot or cold, and more fit for making bolts, nails,
andflieathing for Jhips, than any other metals pre

viously applied for the purpose;" and this metal has

been said to be almost identical with that now called
" Muntz-metal."

A volume printed in 1866 "at the request of" the

Committee (Local) of the British Association has given

rise to a discussion on this subject.

   In this volume  of  "Reports on the    Industrial History
of Birmingham,"
                   an   article appeared  entitled " Yellow

Metal Sheathing, Bolts, Nails, and Wire," from which

we take a few extracts : --

"The late George Frederick Muntz, Esq., M.P., has hitherto

enjoyed the reputation of being the inventor of this mixture.
***
             however, the merit of introducing large per centage
     If,

                                                                        a
           OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.   67

of zinc with copper, for the purpose, is to be regarded as forming a
claim to protection, Mr. Muntz's claim to be considered as an
original inventor is of the most shadowy character imaginable.
* * * Its (Keir's metal) component parts were one hundred
parts of copper, seventy-five parts of zinc, and ten parts of iron.
The copper and iron were first melted and mixed with charcoal
and pounded glass, and the zinc then added. * * * The
merits of Mr. Muntz are therefore reducible to the resuscitation of

a dead process, or mixture, only. As the reviver of an old patent,
Mr. Muntz is entitled to consideration, and on these grounds only.
Now, with the printed specifications for consultation, such a patent
could not have stood the test of a Court of Law, and no patent
agent would have been justified in taking it out." *

In an address delivered at the Birmingham and Mid

Hill,land Institute on the 30th September, 1 867, by Matthew-
Davenport  QX2., the following remark was

made upon this passage :--

I" Against one pasfage of the work however must enter my pro

test, namely, that which treats of the new manufacture created and
established by the late George Frederick Muntz. * * *
This treatment bears all the more hardly on the reputation of Mr.
Muntz, that it appears in a book, not only of great intrinsic value,
but of peculiar interest to the people among whom he lived; and

which must, as regards its general character, secure their respect

by the soundness of its judgments."

   * By W. C. Aitken. -- Extracted from a work "The Resources, Products,
and Industrial History of Birmingham and the Midland Hardware District" --
Published by Robert Hardwicke.

                                                                                                   E1
68 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

   In the Local Notes and Queries of the Birmingham
Journal, December 21st, 1867, further notice was taken

of Keir's inventions :.--

  " Keir, in addition to his researches in science, cultivated other
pursuits of a more practical kind. He was the earliest of two pre-

inventors of a metal akin to Muntz's, which, so far back as the year

1779, he patented, which could be, and was worked at a low red

heat. It was composed of ' copper, zinc, and a small portion of

iron, to be used sor the making of ships' bolts, nails, and sheathing ;

more fit for the purposes named than any metals heretofore used.'

He clearly demonstrated the economic principle of working it by
Ithe manipulation of the metal when in a heated state.
                                                        am also

of opinion that the fcientific prefcience of Keir's mind quite com

prehended the implied quality included in the specification of the

latest patentee, i.e., ' to make the metal oxidise sufficiently to keep

the ships' bottoms clean.' The iron, 10 per cent., Keir well knew

was so small in quantity and so low in price, as not materially to

influence cost, as regards reduction in price. For what purpose

then was the iron introduced ? For its known property of oxidation.
   " As ' Este,' in his enquiries as to Birmingham celebrities, doubt

less is anxious to know what they did, having examined Keir's

specification, it is here introduced, as contrasted with the more

recent one for producing a similar kind of alloy, fifty-three years
thereafter : --

1779 -- Keir.                         1832 -- Muntz.
                                       Wide Claim.
Copper     100 --divide by 2 = 50 .
Zinc ....  s75-- » by = 37           50 to 63 Copper.
Iron ....              =5 .          37 to 50 Zinc.

           10-- ,, by

                                                        Q- »
             OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                        69

   On the 8th February, 1868, another article appeared

in this paper on the same subject : --

  "James Keir and Muntz's Metal.-- ' Senex' does not
concur in the opinion expressed by me, that James Keir was

'prescient' of an alloy of copper and zinc to 'perform the sunc
Ition which the specification first showed it to possess.'
                                                            shall hold

the contrary. We will agree to differ.

   " 'Senex' raises what he considers a practical difficulty in the pro
duction of Keir's metal which is very easily answered. He fays :
' To melt the iron the mixture must be raised to a temperature

which would send off the zinc in vapour, and probably much of
the copper would follow it.' Now, ' Senex,' if he had given the

matter due consideration, must have found out that no metallurgist

would attempt to first melt a metal so volatile, and susing at so low

a temperature (7730), as zinc, and therefore attempt to melt in it

copper, which suses only at 1,996°, and iron which is only susible
Iat 2,736°.
             am afraid 'Senex' is fadly in want of 'technic

knowledge.' James Keir was a ' better metallurgist,' and he

just reversed 'Senex's' method of melting his metals. He fays:

' First melt the iron and copper together in the presence of char

coal and pounded glass, then add the zinc by degrees.'
   " ' Senex ' makes me fay, ' it was because iron possesses great

oxidating and corroding power ' that it was added to the [mixture ;
and again, ' Iron being a cheaper metal than either copper or zinc, its

Iintroduction would lessen the cost of the alloy.' What faid was:

' The iron 10 per cent. Keir well knew was so small in quantity

and so low in price as not materially to influence cost as regards

reduction in price.' I also faid, ' For what purpose was the iron

introduced but for its known property of (corrosion or) oxidation.'
These were my words. ' Senex ' fays the iron would of all things
Ifaggravate that which it was important to avoid.
                                                   ' Senex ' fays

no corrosion is necessary (not the exaggerated corrosion which, by
70 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

his exceedingly free use of my words, he would mislead your readers

Ito suppose), refer him for information to an Address, * recently

delivered, in which Muntz's metal is alluded to, and in which it is
stated, ' some corrosion is indispenfable,' -- the necessity for which

is rendered apparent by the overdone protection devised by Sir
Humphry Daw, whose ' sheathing became quickly covered with

Ibarnacles and seaweeds.' Now Keir undoubtedly was, as have

shown, a scientifically educated man, converfant with chemistry

and metallurgy. It is not therefore too much to assume that his

' prescience ' detected a limited corrosion as an essential in ships'

sheathing.
" 'Senex' fays, 'We have no evidence that Keir ever made a
'Ifsingle sheet of his metal and surther,
                                                                               Keir was in possession

of such a valuable secret, why did his patent not come into use ? '

My reply                  matters little whether he made his metal or not.
'

              ')
                    is,
                      it
Recorded in the Rolls Chapel Reports stands revealed (no

 secret the specification of James Keir's invention of 'a com

pound metal, to be worked at a low red heat, or when cold, more

fit for the making of bolts, nails, and sheathing for ships, than any

metals heretofore used or'applied for these purposes.'

   " James Keir was therefore the inventor of an alloy, and was

the first to call attention to the property which copper more largely

alloyed with zinc than any previous alloy of copper produced
                                                                                                       :

                                                                                                         '
                                                                                                                         ;
and that the said metal could be worked at a low red heat. Now

how much this property aided the commercial success of Muntz's

metal we are told in the Address alluded to. It fays It was
'

                        is

                                             '
                                                    '
                                                                            '
highly important to the success of Mr. Muntz's patent that he

should be able to roll the plates of his sheathing in a heated state,

for when cold the power required to produce the necessary expan
sion of the metal so great as to make the process costly.' Was

this highly important element to the success of Muntz's metal,

   * Address delivered at the  Birmingham                                      and Midland Institute,  on 30th Sep
                               Davenport
tember, 1867, by Matthew                                                        Hill, Q.C.
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                           Jl

Ii.e., rolling hot, invented by Mr. Muntz?  have shown it was

not. Whose invention was it then ? It was that of James Keir !
IWhy did his (Keir's) patent not come into use ?
                                                  need not tell

' Senex ' that inventors make inventions before the time comes for

them to be appreciated. Ninety years ago, a half-century before
the date of the invention of Muntz's metal, public opinion leaned

towards the use of things they knew. More important still, the

amount of shipping was much smaller than at present, and not

nearly so large as at the period of the introduction of Muntz's

metal in 1832. Keir resided in an inland town ; if he sailed to

get his metal introduced it is not to be wondered at, nor does it

derogate from the importance of his invention that ' promoters of

new inventions were not then in existence.' A higher tone of

morality prevailed, and cheapness was then seldom taken into con

sideration as a recommendation to the introduction of the new
material. So much, then, as regards the ' prescience ' of James

Keir, a ' prescience ' arising out of scientific knowledge, founded

upon true principles. That he was a ' remarkable ' man we gather
from the ' Address ' already twice alluded to. What fays the

writer of it ? This :--' Grouped around the father of Pneumatic

Chemistry (Priestley) were several remarkable men who then re
sided in Birmingham, or frequently met there, Matthew Boulton,
James Keir, &c, &c.' Will any one, after these quotations, have

the hardihood to doubt that James Keir comprehended the

necessity for corrosion to a limited extent in ships' sheathing ?

" Birmingham, 30th January, 1868."                Q."

"On the 1 6th May, 1868, another letter appeared in
the same journal from  Senex " : --

  " Keir and Muntz's Metal.--Some weeks or months ago one

Iof your correspondents, whose signature forget, broached the
72 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

theory that the late Captain Keir had anticipated by ' prevision '

         Muntz's discovery of a sheathing which would resist corrosion.
         Keir's metal was to consist of copper, zinc, and iron. This hypo

thesis has rather amused the metallurgists, one of whom has just

jsent me the following extract from the Times of May 7 : --
   " ' The Elk, 2, twin "crew (composite-built) gunboat, 465 tons, 120-

horfe power, launched during the past winterfrom Portsmouth Dock
yard, and jubfequently fitted with her engines and boilers, was placed
 10 weeks fnce in the old shipping bafn of the yard, to wail there the
finishing of her pair of fcrews, which were ordered to be cast from

enlarged patterns. On Tuesday last she was taken out of the bafn
again and docked to receive her fcrews, which had in the meantime

been completed for her. On attempting to clean the ends of the shaft
ing, however, to receive the screws, it was difcovered that galvanic

action had been at work to fuch an extent that the ' key ' pieces on the
shaftings were reduced to plumbago, and other parts of the metal
 ' honeycombed.' The facl appears to be that the fmall area of water

         in the oldship basin is but feldom opened to the admission os the tide,

has always three or four copper-bottomed vessels floating upon     and
                                                                   ;
is       therefore a chemical bath, whofe power has been fo unexpectedly,
                                                                     j it,
yet convincingly, displayed upon the fcrew ftiafts of the Elk.''
   " My friend adds 'This report shows remarkable instance of             if
                  :                   ?'
the destructive galvanic action of copper on iron in sea water anda
                        a
what (he adds) would have become of Mr. Keir's patent sheath-is

         ing-plates, with their iron ingredient                    but

            " Captain Keir was man of great merit and originality

         the prevision with which your correspondent has endowed him'

         ever existed (of which there not tittle of evidence), the methoda

         he proposed for reducing his theory to practice would have landed

         him farther from his object than he would have remained had he

         been content to abide by the ule of the old slieathing made of

copper alone.

                                                  SENEX."
         OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                            73

   On the 30th May this was replied to as follows : --

  "[124.] -- Keir v. Muntz's Metal.--On the above subject I

observed in yours of the 16th inst, another letter from ' Senex,'

which, however, does not attempt in any way to answer the con

tents of my letter inserted in the Birmingham Journal of the 8th

February last. ' Senex,' therefore, admits that he was in error as

to his idea of the modus operandi'va. mixing Keir's metal. Secondly,

that Keir was the first to produce a sheathing composed of copper

largely alloyed with zinc (with a small portion of iron therein).
Thirdly, that Keir's metal possessed the property of being worked

at a low red heat, the two last features being distinguishing charac

teristics of Muntz's metal. Previous to Keir's invention, all

sheathing was composed entirely of copper ; the merit, therefore,

of producing a composite sheathing, with the quality of its being

worked at a low red heat, are not original features in Muntz's
metal, while they are those of Keir's (invented and specified fifty-
three years before the enrolment of the specification of Muntz).

IKeir was, therefore, as stated, ' one of two pre-inventors of a

metal or sheathing akin to Muntz's.' ' The hypothesis ' suggested

by the extract from the Naval and Military intelligence correspon
dent of the Times, of the 7th instant, surnished to ' Senex,' by his

friend, 'one of the amused metallurgists,' and adopted by 'Senex,'

simply proves that iron is acted upon by other metals, that the

iron keys of the shafting, and the iron shafting of the ' Elk ' com

posite-built gunboat, was destroyed or partially injured by the

action   of the old  sea water in the  ' ships'  basin  at  Portsmouth    '
                                                                        ;

it does not tell us that any portion of Muntz's metal was present,

or if present that it was uninjured. The inference desired to be
drawn by ' Senex '
                     that Keir's metal had been present,
it
           ' it

                is it
                                      a
                                         is,

                                     if

                                                                                         is
                                                                                               a

                                                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                                                                                   ;
because contained fractional portion of iron, as necessary con

sequence must have been destroyed. What                 proved by the

extract  simply this, that iron pure and simple was destroyed

does not prove that Muntz's metal, under similar conditions,
LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

would have resisted corrosion, or that because Keir's metal con

tained a fractional portion of iron in its composition, as a conse

quence it must have been destroyed. But the truth is that 'Senex'
and his friend (one of the ' amused metallurgists ') are ignorant of
a fact well known by manufacturers of yellow metal sheathing,
that ' the old sea water ' in ships' basins, not operated upon by

tidal influences or changed by the transsusion of fresli sea water,

becomes an active agent of corrosion. According to Millar, the

water is full of ' sulphuretted hydrogen ; ' according to the Times'

correspondent 'galvanic action ' ensued --the water became a

'chemical bath,' and in the case alluded to 'the copper sheathing
of the vessels floating in the old ship basin ' aided in completing

the destruction of the iron keys, and partially destroyed the iron
shafting of the Elk.' The fact of the increased action of the old

I
               iIs,

                                                                          '
sea water in docks  think, proved by the following extract,

which quote from an authority --viz., that some time ago the

manufacturers of yellow metal sheathing were so impressed with
the belief of the extremely corrosive nature of the water in the

London docks that they jointly agreed to resuse their usual gua

rantee for the durability of their sheathing metal during certain
                                                                             a
term, in case of vessels entering and lying in these docks.' The                 '

matter stands thus Senex and the amused metallurgist have
                    :

                      '

                                           '

                                                         '

quoted an extreme cafe, as unfair to be considered the test of
Muntz's metal as of Keir's, and they have injured their cafe

thereby.

   " It forms no part of my duty, as exponent of Keir's merits, to

decry Muntz's metal, but simply to show, as has been done by me,
that two elements in Muntz's patent taken out in 1832 --i.e., the
production of composite sheathing, formed of copper very largely
'
                 ;

                          'a
                                                                                                                           a
alloyed with zinc, and that the fame could be worked at

 low red heat -- were included in Keir's specification, taken out

in 1779 also that, even as regards the quantities of copper and

zinc, the quantities specified by Keir are included within the
                  OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.       75

limits of the specification of Muntz (the latter, however, making a
wide claim for the purposes of experiment). With a knowledge of

Ithese facts before me, submit what has been stated by me in pre
vious letters has been proved, viz., ' that James Keir was one of

two pre-inventors of a metal akin to Muntz's.'
  " In conclusion, 1 may add that recently Keir's metal has been

revived in Germany. It is extensively used for general purposes ;

largely ' for sheathing bolts and nails in shipbuilding ; it is much

stronger than copper, and is faid to resist the action of sea water

fatisfactorily.'  Probably 'Senex' and his friend, 'one of the

amused metallurgists,' will be more caresul in suture in the use of
an ' hypothesis,' which cuts not in the way it was intended, but
against them ; and as a refresher to the memory of ' Senex,' let

me remind him that my signature was simply

                                            Q"

" Birmingham."

   At a date which cannot be accurately assigned, but
apparently about the year 1780, Mr. Keir engaged in
a business with Mr. Blair. Mr. Blair was the only
brother officer in the Army whose friendship Mr. Keir

had the good fortune to secure. They established works
at Tipton, near Dudley, for the manufacture of alkali,
for the use of the soap-makers, from the sulphates of
potash and soda. The method of extraction proceeded

on a discovery of Mr. Keir's, contradicting a point in

the doctrine of elective affinities held by the Chemists of

the day. Their experiments seemed to show a stronger
affinity of sulphuric acid for either of the two fixed
76 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

alkalis than for lime. Mr. Keir found that -- by pre

senting the salts in an exceedingly weak solution, and by

calling in the aid of a chemical agent (for which he al
ways professed the highest respect, and the functions of

which in natural operations were, he thought, greatly un

derrated) Time-- the rule of election was reversed. By
passing the weak solution Jlowly through a thick body of

lime, the sulphates were decomposed ; the sulphuric acid
uniting with the lime, and leaving the alkalis disengaged.
The liberated alkali had then only to be brought into a

concentrated form for sale.

    After a time it was considered that much labour and

expense would be saved by using the products on the
spot, and the Chemical Works became Soap Works

also.

    For many years, whilst Chemistry slowly made its way

into the arts, the sulphates --the neglected refuse of other
manufactories --were at a low price in the market ; and
the secret of the decomposition by lime remained so long

exceedingly profitable.
    On the same ground was carried on the manufacture

of red lead, for the glass-houses, -- of litharge -- and, on
a principle which was patented later (1806), of white
lead, for the Stafford/hire Potleries, the lead being first

converted into a muriate and the muriatic, then displaced
by the carbonic acid gas for this purpose. Whether

there were any business relations between Mr. Keir and
Mr. Wedgwood in the matter of white lead is not
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                            77

known; but it is clear that Mr. Keir had for many years
been acquainted with him. In Miss Meteyard's " Life
of Wedgwood " it is said that Doctor Darwin intro

duced them to each other by a letter dated 8 th November,

1767.

Doctor DARWIN to Mr. WEDGWOOD.

Dear Wedgwood,

              I have the pleasure to introduce to your acquaintance
Captain James Keir, an old friend of mine, a successsul cultivator

of both arts and arms. He begs the favour of seeing your elegant

manufactory, and hopes to meet our common friend, the philoso

pher, Mr. Whitehurst, at your house.  The civilities you show

Captain Keir will be received by,

                Dear Sir,

                Your affectionate humble Servant,

                                      E. DARWIN.

   Miss Meteyard adds: --

   " From this date the acquaintance ripened, and both at
the house of Dr. Small, at Birmingham, and at Soho, Mr.

Wedgwood occasionally met Keir, who, in the opinion of

Watt, was 'a mighty chemist, and a very agreeable man.'
The experimental track Wedgwood was, at that time and

subsequently, engaged upon, must have made his occasional inter

course with Keir singularly interesting, as it was from Macquer's
7« LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

Dictionary in its French form that he had derived, through
Bentley's translation of the necesfary pasfages, some portion of his
knowledge relative to the spaith susible, or terra ponderosa."

   Doctor Darwin     w"asTheengaBgoetdanaict  that time  in writing
                                              Garden."
his celebrated poem                                       It would

appear from the next letter we have selected that he sent

the second part of his work to Mr. Keir for his perusal

and opinion as to the propriety of publilhing it,

             Mr. KEIR to Doctor DARWIN.

                                                                            September ist, 1787.

   Dear Doctor,

               I return with this your exquisite Poem, with many

thanks for the indulgence of showing it to Mrs. Blair, who has

read it with more pleasure, she fays, than she recollects to have
received from any piece of poetry for years. She desires me to give
you her very best thanks for the high entertainment she has
received, and longs for the publication of it that she may also see
the first part.

  I IFor my part, am confirmed in the opinion always had, that

you would have been the first Poet of the kingdom if you had not
suppressed your talent. You certainly possess the power of giving
reality to the images you exhibit. The touches of your poetic

pencil, to bring forward the circumstances on which this effect de
pends, are fine and delicate. Nothing can be more ingenious than
the thought of personifying the plants and sexual parts of plants,
and animating them with such passions, actions, and character, as
          OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.               79

the figure, qualities, and other circumstances suggest. And much

invention and ingenuity are shown in the execution of this thought.

I can have no doubt that the poem will please both the reader and

the bookseller, and also the author, whenever you publish it ; and

Ias you desire my opinion on the propriety of publishing, not only
Igive it as above, but also the reasons on which ground my opinion,

that you may not suppose it given as a customary courtesy between

an author and his friends. The fale will probably not be so great

Iat first, as it will be lasting and increasing ; and this, conjecture,

from the subject of Botany not being understood generally suffi
Iciently to make people relish it.
                                    think great advantage in this

respect might be derived from prefacing a very short introduction,

in which you will explain in the easiest manner possible as much of

Linnæus's system as is sufficient for understanding the poem and

the notes, and no more than is sufficient and necessary; and, for

the greater facility of giving this first idea to persons ignorant of

IBotany, would advise a print, by way of vignette to the intro

duction, of some flower, the fittest for your purpose. You might

also prefix and post-fix vignettes to each part of the poem, repre

senting some of the principal plants mentioned, for the benefit of

many readers who do not know them. - Your readers will not be

Iconfined to botanists, but doubt not many of them may be en

ticed by the poem to become botanists ; and as this is your express

intention, to promote the study of Botany, you ought to do every

thing you can to facilitate the admission of the first ideas of
it a

     I
          iIf a

                                                                             :

                                         )I
                                               I
                                                     I

                                                                                                                          it.
(Upon recollection, your first part, which have not seen, will be

preparation for understanding the second.

You tell me you expect some criticisms, otherwise you will not

believe we have read it. The number of beautisul passages are not

to be noticed, for they are without number, and therefore found

would be shorter method of convincing you that  have read

the poem  could find faults --

1. do not approve of the part of your advertisement which
8o LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

fays that the design of the poem is to apprize the publication of a

translation of Linnæus. The poem is too good for this humble

design, which may be communicated in other words.

2. The person who has copied for you has committed many

errors in spelling, which you had need beware of if you send this
copy to the press -- Holologe for Horologe, Hydrometer for Hygro
Imeter, page 63.
                  suppose the words led and bad, in lines 32 and

33, ought to have been ledst and badst.

   3 . Does the epithet leathern added to the ears of the incubus-

demon give so distinct an image as some word expressive of form
or position, -- as, with ears eretl, pointed ears, bending ears, quivering

ears, and which give also the idea of the pleasure with which the

demon hears the painsul cries of the woman.
   4. Line 779, " and turns her wheel the while" does this sound

please your better ear ?

   5. Line 837, " marking her solar and sidereal day." Is this idea
philosophically accurate ? Your note informs that the equinotlial
flowers open and shut at determinate hours, which seems as if they

regarded time and not the sun. Are these flowers capable of

flowering at any but determinate seasons ; and if they are, has their

uniformity of expanding and closing at the fame hour been well

Iascertained ? For my part cannot conceive any possible con

nexion between plants and true time. They seem to me under the

dominion of the sun, and his light or warmth makes them expand.
IfThe tropical flowers evidently obey the sun.
                                                in the word sidereal

you did not mean to mark the distinction between solar and sidereal

time, -you must be sensible that it must however bring up the idea

of the distinction into every person's mind who has been used to

hear of it. Certainly if the plants mark sidereal time, they make

Ibetter watch-makers ; but doubt whether you would not have had

as great advantage in poetry, by making them priests of the Sun,

worshipping him successively at different hours, and drawing your

episode either from ancient or Mexican mythology.
              OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

I6. Line 1146, "eleftric lustre plays."  cannot conceive, with

Wilcke, that this light can be electric. The torpedo and eel pro

duce electricity by some violent exertion, which cannot be supposed

to exist in vegetables. It seems much more probable that it is

phosphoric.

   7. Mrs. Blair thinks you have facrificed the philosopher to
the poet when you speak of Mongolfier, " Urge thy venturous

flight high o'er the moon," &c. Considering especially the poem as

a philosophical one, fancy ought not to fly quite so high.
I Ihave criticised enough to show that have read the poem,
Ialthough you will perhaps fay " to little purpose."
                                                      had forgot to

fay Mrs. Blair was much pleased with the interludes, which she

Ithinks very ingenious  and think they contain just criticism, and

are a pleafant addition. Mrs. Keir desires to join in best compli
Iments to Mrs. Darwin and yourself.
                                     have had the pleasure of

making her forget a violent toothache by reading part of your

poem to her.

              Yours affectionately,

                                         JAMES KEIR.

   The celebrated Doctor Priestley came to Birmingham
in the year 1780. He it was who, after M. Macquer
had discovered the existence of inflammable air or hy

drogen, demonstrated that there was another gas, oxygen,

or, as it was called by him, dephlogisticated air. And it
was from an observation of his experiments, rather than

from those of Mr. Cavendish and M. Lavoisier, that
Mr. Watt was ultimately led to the grand discovery of
the composition of water.

   Doctor Priestley in his researches was assisted, and
that not a little, by Mr. Keir, who, it will be remem-

                                                                                                          F
82 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

bered, had discovered that the properties of fixed air, or

as it is now called carbonic acid gas, were such as to dis
tinguish it and separate it from atmospheric air ; and this

previously to Doctor Mac bride, and independently of

him.

           Doctor PRIESTLEY to Mr. KEIR.

                                                     Fair Hill,

                                                     Wednesday morning.

Dear Sir,

              I write to apprize you that time but that very soon

time will be past. But, to speak without allusions, my volume will
                                                     is,
be nearly printed off this week and the article you were so good
                   I                                        I it
                           I                                     I

                                               ;                       if

                                          if
as to promise, and by which shall think my work much honoured,

does not come the end of this week or the beginning of the next,

will be too late.       earnestly beg therefore that you will be as
itIfexpeditious as possible.
                                you should happen to have now ready,
    I
and could come and spend an hour or two with me, should like

to read to you section have composed on the theory of the ex
           Ia
periments on air, but will be in the hands of the printer onit if I I it I

Friday or Saturday.           have also made several new experiments

since faw you, which          wish to talk to you about.          should
                                possible, have your article, and
   At all events must,

think you might write without repeating the experiment, you

have no doubt with respect to the general fact. Hoping to see or

hear from you very soon,

                                      am, dear Sir,
                              I

                                                          J.
                                      Yours sincerely,

James Keir, Esq.,                                             PRIESTLEY.

                       Winson Green.
           OF THE LATE JAMES KEiR.                           83

Doctor PRIESTLEY to Mr. KEIR.

                                       Fair Hill,

                                       Tuesday, l&i/i August, 1784.

Dear Sir,

           I send for your general inspection, not sor your reading,
Ithe first book of my work, and also the introduction.
                                                             have to

peruse it once more before it goes to the press. The last article

(MS.) contains the result of the experiments you saw going on in

my laboratory.

  I wish to see you before we begin to print, which may be in a

week or ten days.

                                       Yours sincerely,

                                       J. PRIESTLEY.

To James Keir, Esq.,

                           Smethwick.

           Mr. KEIR to Doctor PRIESTLEY.

                                       Smethwick,

                                                         January, 1788.

Dear Sir,

                     You will receive with this the second sheet of my
Dictionary. You will find in it my strictures on Mr. Kirwan's
investigation of the quantity and density of real acid in acid liquors,

Iwhich, think, is founded on false principles, but from which he

has drawn numberless conclusions, and others have also reasoned
from them as admitted truths, and consequently abundance of false

Ireasoning introduced. In treating of the subject could not avoid

                                                         F2
84 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

taking notice os Mr. Kirwan's papers, and, convinced of their

Ierrors, could not speak candidly of them to the public without

dissenting and showing my reasons for the difference of opinion.

It is not a pleafant task, and it would give me much pain to find

Ithat had misrepresented his doctrines in any respect ; therefore,
Ialthough what have said is to the best of my judgment and con
I Iviction, yet am extremely desirous you would read what have

faid and compare it with Mr. Kirwan's papers, and that you would

Ipoint out any faults you may observe, or doubts you may have.
Iknow the value of your time, and would not ask this favour for

am sensible it is a subject that will require some attention) if it were
not to use every precaution I can not to do the slightest injustice
Ito another, while at the fame time fulfil my pretensions to the
Ipublic.
           have desired Rollason to forbear casting off this sheet
Ifor two or three days ; and hope, if you can spare time, you will

savour me with your thoughts, either by a line, or by letting me

know when I could call on you, or meet you at Rollason's. I

scarcely need mention that whatever discussion may happen be

Itween Mr. Kirwan and me, shall not lead into the scrape a friend

who is so kind to me and just to both parties as to give his real

opinion.   I am ever, dear Sir,

           Yours most sincerely,

                                            JAMES KEIR.

           Doctor PRIESTLEY to Mr. KEIR.

                                            Fair Hill, Thursday.

Dear Sir,  II have always forgot to tell you that have not the

account of the Due d'Agen's experiments that you once asked for,

my Memoirs not reaching surther than 1778.
                     OF THE LATE JAMES, KEIR.

  I send a letter I have just received from Mr. Kirwan. by which

you will fee that he is about to publish before he is sufficiently
master of facts.

   I am working like a horse at the new arrangement of my 6 to/s.

of Experimaits. It is a tedious business.

   What do you think of an attempt to dedicate this work to the

IPrince of Wales 1 The King shall never think of in any such

light, nor the Prince, unless it be possible that he will be a real
patron of science, and could look upon it in some other light than
that of an honour to myself.

                                                       Yours sincerely,

                                                             J. PRIESTLEY.

   On the 3rd of May,    1787 (see vol. 77   of the Philo
                         a paper entitled
sophical Transactions),                     " Experiments

on the Congelation of the Vitriolic Acid, by James Keir,

Esq., F.R.S.," was communicated to the Royal Society
by Henry Cavendish, Esq., F.R.S. ; and an article on

Fossil Alkali, by Mr. Keir, was published on the 2nd of

September, 1788, in the sixth volume of the Transactions

of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manu

factures, and Commerce, of which Mr. Keir was a

member.

   It may be here mentioned that Mr. Keir was elected
a Fellow of the Royal Society on the 8 th December,

1785, and admitted into it on the 26th January, 1791.
We observe that on the 1st of May, 1788 (see vol. 78

of the Philosophical Transactions), a letter of Mr. Keir's
86 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

to the Rev. Doctor Priestley was read to the members
of the Royal Society. The letter was on the principle
of acidity, decomposition of water, and phlogiston. The
following to Doctor Darwin is principally upon this
subject : --

JAMES KEIR, Esq., to Doctor DARWIN.

             Smethwick,

             November 26th, 1788.

Dear Doctor,

             I have not been able to get you a paper of the

hospital before yesterday, the waiting for which occasioned my

delay in writing. But about a week ago I sent you Withering's

Botany, a Birmingham Directory, and also a book belonging to
Iyou which
Iever since  have had in my possession (to my shame be it spoken)
             faw you last in Lichfield, Swedenborgius on Copper.
I perceived, on reading the letters you showed, that things are

gone too far to think of reconciliation.

  I have at last finished my article "Nitrous Acid" at the end of

which you will fee a short sketch of my theory of phlogiston,
which is very different from Stahl's, Kirwan's, &c. Calcination

does not necesfarily imply deprivation of phlogiston, but consists in

union of metal with air, as Lavoisier fays, and in some cases a part

of the phlogiston is expelled, as in calcination of iron with water,

because the water does not like phlogiston, but when pure air is

applied it does not expel phlogiston, being very fond of it.

Manganese and minium do not yield all their air by heat, only that
part which they have more than calxes have, which are formed by

strong heat. When litharge is exposed to lefs heat than made the
litharge, it takes more air and becomes minium. When heated
OF THE LATE JAMES KEiR.                                     87

beyond this degree it yields its fuperfluous air and becomes litharge

again. The marine deph'd acid is a compound of marine acid

and pure air, as Lavoisier fays. The anti-phlogistic doctrine can

not stand without the theory of the composition of water, but the

anti-phlogistians have made great improvements in chemistry, which

will stand independently of that theory or the theory of phlogiston.
I IThat part adopt and adapt to the phlogistic theory.
I Iwrite no more theory, hope, till have finished my book.  shall

Adieu,
       Dear Doctor, in haste,

                         JAMES KEIR.

               Mr. KEIR to Doctor DARWIN.

       * * * be magnified, although, as it is probable that he
believed in the judgment he gave of the cafe, he is not much
more culpable in one cafe than the other.

  I am in great hopes, and much inclined to believe, that the affair

will ultimately turn out to your son's advantage.

   Mrs. Keir joins me in wishing you, and Mrs. Darwin and all

yours, many happy new years, and

                              I am, dear Doctor,

                                                      Yours affectionately,

                                                         JAMES KEIR.

   I received Doctor Withering's paper only yesterday, but upon

Iobferving that it is dated December 31st, take it for granted it is
Iunnecessary to send it to you, as suppose you must have seen it.

  When you have read my article " Nitrous Acid," I shall then be

glad to know your opinion of phlogiston. Hitherto all the modern
discoveries have been directed against that doctrine, and been
88 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

Iwove into the opposite system.  have attempted to make a nav

system from the good parts of all the systems that have been pro

posed, and by giving up all the bad parts.

To Doctor Darwin,

                  Derby.

Letter from Monsieur BERTHOLLET.

                                            Paris,
                                                19 Mai, 1789.

A Monsieur Keir,

              Monsieur,

                           J'ai reçu votre article Acide Nitreux que vous
avez eu la bonté de me communiquer, ainsi qu'à M. Lavoisier.

   Nous avons l'honneur l'un et l'autre de vous en faire nos

remercimens.

   J'ai lû cet article avec un véritable intérêt ; cependant je ne
vous deguiserai pas que je n'y ai point trouvé de motifs pour
changer d'opinion ni sur la formation de l' eau, ni sur la nature de
l'azote ou air phlogistique, je désirerais, Monsieur, que fur le pre

mier objet, vous eussiez fait ufage des résultats les mieux établis

fur les quantités proportionnelles ; vous auriez peut-être été étonné
vous même de l'opinion que vous défendez. C'est un peu vague
de dire que l'air peut tenir beaucoup d'eau en dissolution ; mais
une partie peut-elle en tenir deux ou trois cents parties ?

    J'espère, Monsieur, que vous ne trouverez pas mauvais que
j'insère dans nos annales chimiques quelques observations sur cet
 article de votre dictionnaire, ainsi que sur les dernières expériences

 du célèbre Priestley ; vous n'aurez certainement point à vous

 plaindre du ton de ma réponse ; nous désirons également le progrès
 des lumières, et si nous différons d'opinion fur quelques objets,
 c'est dans le même esprit que nous cultivons les sciences.
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.               89

    Relativement à la nature du gaz azote et conséquemment à celle
de l'acide nitrique, ayez la bonté d'observer que le point qui nous
divise c'est que vous prétendez connaître la nature de ce gaz, et
que nous disons qu'aucune expérience, telle qu'on doit les adopter
actuellement, ne prouve encore quelle est fa composition : nous
attendons donc et vous nous dévancez. Vous vous appuyez
principalement sur la diminution du gaz hydrogène exposé et agité

sur l'eau par M. de la Metherie, et moi je me flatte de prouver par

les calculs établis sur les observations les plus rigoureuses que, ou
l'observation est fausse et de pure imagination (ce qui pourrait bien
être) ou que le gaz hydrogène n'a pû être converti en azote en se
combinant avec l'air vital contenu dans l'eau, ainsi que vous le

prétendez.
   Vous relevez fort bien à la fin de votre article une erreur qui

nous est échappée dans notre réponse à Mr. Kirwein sur la ré
duction de l'oxide de fer par le gaz hydrogène opérée par Mr.
Priestley ; mais il me parait que la véritable explication de ce

fait est facile à trouver et qu'elle ne laisse rien de favorable à ceux
qui veulent conserver indéfiniment les explications du phlogistique.

    Ce n'est pas la feule instruction que j'aye puisée dans votre
article.

   J'ai l'honneur d'être, avec beaucoup de considération et d'estime,

                                     Monsieur,

                                        Votre très humble

                                                         et très obéisfant serviteur,

                                      BERTHOLLET.

De l'Académie des Sciences de Paris.

  Comme j'ignore l'adresse de Mr. Keir, j'ai pris la liberté
d'adresser cette lettre à Mr. Watt, auquel j'ai l'honneur de pré

senter mes compliments.
9° LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

Letter from Monsieur De la METHERIE.

                  Paris,
                        9 Janvier, 1789.

A Monsieur Keir,

Monsieur,

                Je reçois dans l'instant les feuilles de votre dictionnaire
que vous m'adressez, je les ferai traduire pour en insérer une

partie dans le cahier de Fevrier, et la seconde partie dans celui de
Mars. Recevez mes remerciments sincères de la mention honor

able que vous faites de mes ouvrages ; le suffrage d'un favant aussi

distingué que vous me flatte infiniment. Je ne suis pas moins
charmé de vous voir persister ainsi que Mr. Priestley dans ce
que je crois la bonne doctrine ; nous sommes ici inondés de car
bonate de fulfate, de nitrate, &c. Quoique le plus grand nombre

de nos favants s'en moque, je fuis néanmoins presque le seul qui
ose élever publiquement la voix contre des innovations aussi dan
gereuses pour le progrés de la science que ridicules en elles mêmes.
L'amour propre choqué ne me pardonne pas, on met en jeu toutes
les petites cabales ordinaires; mais fans m'écarter du ton d'hon
nêteté qu'on n'a pas toujours eu avec moi, je persiste à soutenir ce
 qui me parait être vrai.

   M. Berthollét a lu un mémoire à l'Academie, dans lequel il

pretend prouver l'existence d'acides metalliques dans le plomb,

l'argent, &c, mais on m'a dit qu'il n'apporte pour le prouver
d'autre expérience que celle-ci ; il fait bouillir ces chaux ou

oxides metalliques dans l'eau de chaux, filtre, et ensuite verse dans
la liqueur une dissolution de foie de souffre ; la liqueur devient
brune. C'est l'expérience que j'ai faite et que je rapporte, page 385,

tome ii., de mon Effaifur l'Air; mais une des petites vengeances

de ces messieurs est de ne me jamais citer, au reste je suis bien

 éloigné de croire que cette experience prouve l'existence d'un acide
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  9i

développé dans ces chaux métalliques. Je crois bien qu'elles con

tiennent un acide, mais que nous ne l'avons pas encore pu dégager.
   Tout ce que je vous dis fur ce mémoire est d'après le rapport

qu'on m'en a fait, car je ne l'ai point lu.

   J'ai l'honneur d'être, avec la plus haute considération,
                                        Votre très humble

                                                        et obéissant serviteur,

                         De la METHERIE.

Paris, 9 Janvier, 1789.

   Je vousprie de présenter mes respects à Madame Keir, et d'assurer

la favante Societé Lunaire des sentiments d'estime et de respect

que j'ai pour elle. Si le dernier mémoire de Mr. Priestley était

imprimé, je vous prierais de lui dire de me l'envoyer; il pourrait le
faire remettre à Mr. Wolfe, Barnard's Inn, Holborn Street, London.

Si vous pouvez détacher de temps en temps des articles de votre
dictionnaire semblables à celui que vous m'avez envoyé, je me ferai
un plaisir de les insérer.

                     Letter from Miss De LUC.

                                              Harper's Hill,

                                                                             Monday morn.

    En attendant que je puisse avoir le plaisir d'aller rendre mes

devoirs à Monsieur et Madame Keir, je veux au moins leur

témoigner ma reconnoisfance de leur obligeant souvenir ! et leur
présenter les amitiés et compliments de mes Parens ; Mon Père a

reçu le mémoire de Mr. Keir, dont il le remercie sincèrement ; il

n'a pas pu le lire encore avec toute l'attention qu'il mérite, et par
conséquent n'a pas complètement formé son opinion ; je crois

qu'il y fait quelques objections, fans favoir quelles elles fonts II y a

un point sur lequel on ne saurait être cependant plus parfaitement
92 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

d'accord ! Savoir fur la critique de la nouvelle nomenclature des

francois ! que mon Pere regarde comme un example de la folie
la plus pre'somptueuse ; et en la lisant il n'a pu sempecher de

prendre la plume pour y re'pondre ! II croit d'ailleurs que tout

tend dans ce moment a amener quelque grande et importante

découverte ! et cela tres promptement.

  With my best love to Mrs. Keir, and thanks for her kind letter,

                    I remain, dear Sir,

                                    Your most affectionate humble servant,

                                                                  F. De LUC.

I beg not to be forgot to my dear Amelia !

           Doctor PRIESTLEY to Mr. KEIR.

                                                Birmingham;

                                                1oth January, 1788.

Dear Sir,  Doctor Withering                     Ifinds the acid

                                                                  have lately

procured to be, in all the cafes, nitrous, even when the air was

procured from the red had.

   With what you were so obliging as to surnish me with formerly, and

I I Ithe stock found had of other red lead, have now made a fresh
Iand very large quantity of air, which am decomposing in a tin

tube. The liquor is colourless, but the quantity of dark-coloured
Imatter it brings off from the tin would astonish you.
                                                                  wish much

to see you, and am,

                     Dear Sir,

                                                Yours sincerely,

                                                J. PRIESTLEY.

To James Keir, Esq.,

                                    Smethwick.
           OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                                      93

           Doctor PRIESTLEY to Mr. KEIR.

                                                              Tuesday.

Dear Sir,

           I enclose a letter from Doctor Blagden which you
Iwill be glad to see.
                       here send a corrected copy of my paper, in
I Iwhich enlarge a little on the subject of phlogiston.
                                                              think the

doubts concerning it cannot subsist a year longer. The question

will be determined one way or the other.

                                            Yours sincerely,

To James Keir, Esq.,                                          J. PRIESTLEY.

                                Smethwick.

JAMES KEIR, Esq., to Doctor PRIESTLEY.

Dear Sir,

           I return you Doctor Blagden's letter, with thanks for

the pleasure of reading it. When you write to him, be so kind as

to give him my thanks for his obliging communication respecting
the freezing of the vitriolic acid.

    The more we discover of Nature, the surther we are removed

from the conceit of our being able to understand her operations.

  I wish M. Berthollet and his associates would relate their

facts in plain prose, that all men might understand them, and
reserve their poetry of the new nomenclature for their theoretical

commentaries on the facts.

  I have wished much to call on you to hear of the progress of

your experiments, but have been much indisposed with the rheum
Iatism.
           long to know what acids you get with the other
Ifinflammable airs.
                       you get different acids from the inflammable
94 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

air made from sulphur and water, that made from marine acid and

Icopper (for would avoid iron on account of its plumbago and
Icarbon), and that made from charcoal and water :-- fay, if these

acids are different (suppose, according to my notions, vitriolic,
marine, and fixed air), then, will you not be obliged to admit that
there is not one inflammable but many inflammables, which opinion
you now think as heterodox as the Athanasian system. However,
there are wondersul resources in the dispute about phlogiston, by

Iwhich either party can evade, so that am less fanguine than you are

in my hopes of seeing it terminated. One consolation remains, that
in your experiments you cannot fail of discovering something,
perhaps of as great or greater importance to us to know.

Doctor PRIESTLEY to Mr. KEIR.

                                                  Fair Hill,

                                                                                         Friday.

    Dear Sir,

              I wish very much to see you, having got a quantity of
Igreen liquor, by air from the lead ore, which wish you to examine
Iwith me. have also other things to Jhow and to tell you, especially
Iwhat think a coup de grace to the new doctrines.

                                  Yours sincerely,

James Keir, Esq.,                 J. PRIESTLEY.

                Smethwick Grove.

   Mr. Keir seems to have finished and published the

two first volumes or parts of his Chemical Dictionary

during the years 1788, 1789, and 1790. This Dictionary,

which is only a fragment, is not the translation of M.
Macquer's Dictionnaire de Chimie, of which mention
            OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.     95

has been already made in these pages, but is differently

arranged and sounded on a very different theory of
phlogiston than any that had then been proposed. Mr.

Keir however discontinued this great undertaking when

he became convinced that his theory would not fully
explain some of the many curious facts which were after

wards discovered during the rapid progress which then

occurred in experimental chemistry, and to the promotion

of which in England perhaps his own writings and

personal character, reflected through the distinguished

Members of the Lunar Society, mainly contributed.* It
is to the preface of this Dictionary, afterwards discon

tinued, that reference is made in the letter from Doctor

Darwin here transcribed.

            Doctor DARWIN to Mr. KEIR.

            Bar, at Mr. Galton's,

            \2th September, 1789.

Dear Keir,

            I Iwrote you a hasty letter yesterday, before had

had time to peruse your very ingenious and excellent preface, which

   * Mrs. ScHlMMELPENNlNCK (in her Autobiography) mentions that Mr.

Keir was the Man os Wit, and the Man of the World, who maintained the
accord of the Members of this Society. But Doctor Darwin was as great a

necessity to its existence. Probably the secret of its origin and success may be
found in the firm friendship, dating from boyhood, subsisting between these
two men of independent, original, and different characters, acting in concert
with each other for the accomplishment of one purpose, viz., that of drawing
to a single focus the enlightenment and genius of the scientific men of the age.
96 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

I have not now time to admire, but only to mention what I think

an error of the flying pen.
    Page 8, at the bottom line, you seem to fay that common

attraclion or gravitation is the property of matter, by which its

Iquantity has been always ascertained. Now always understood

that it was the vis inertia that measures the quantity, and not the
gravity. Gravity is variable in different parts of the earth, as here
or at the line ; vis inertia is everywhere the fame, as the different
lengths of pendulums necessary to measure the fame portions of
time, here and at the line, evince. Is it too late to alter this 1

    You have successsully combated the new nomenclature, and
strangled him in the cradle, before he has learnt to speak.

                                            Adieu,

                                               From your affectionate friend,

                                                                 E. DARWIN.

         J. KEIR, Esq., to Doctor DARWIN.

I am very happy to find my predictions sulfilled concerning your

poem, that it would yield both fame and profit, but the former

greatly exceeds the latter.  you for mentioning  the remark on an
                                                 that a number of
   I am much obliged to      I am very sensible

expression in my preface.

oversights must have got into my book, the subject is so very

copious and my attention much distracted. The remark was too

I Ilate for correction. However, believe have spoke the common

language of philosophers. Sir Isaac Newton has a chapter in his
" Principia " to prove that gravity is proportional to the quantity of

         If,

                                         a

                                                   if

                                                                 it
                                                                                    it

                                                                                         it is,
                                                                                                         is
matter.  by gravity, you mean the effect produced,       as you

fay, different in different latitudes. But  be considered as the

cause of that effect, or as general property of matter,                                                      the
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  97

same in all latitudes, and the difference of the effects on pendulums

arises only from the different distances at which the gravitating
bodies (the pendulum and the centre of the earth) are placed, and
not from any difference in the gravity or attractive property. By

comparing the attraction of a mountain of a known quantity of
matter with the attraction of the earth, an investigation has been
lately made of the quantity of matter contained in the earth, and
of its density, as its magnitude was before known.

   Doctor Priestley is now printing a new edition of his work

on Air, which will show more clearly his discoveries, as all that he
has done on any one subject will be contained in one chapter. As

Ifar as remember, the most important are --

    (1.) The discovery of pure or dephlogisticated air; and it is un
doubtedly very curious that man should be able to manufacture
an air that is more capable of sustaining life and flame than our

atmosphere.
    (2.) The property of nitrous gas to swallow up pure air, and

no other gas.
    (3.) The power of vegetables to meliorate the atmospherical air.
    (4.) The production of nitrous acid by burning pure and

inflammable airs. Mr. Cavendish did indeed observe the fact;

but he imputed it to another cause, and Doctor Priestley ascer

tained it by experiment ; it therefore as much belongs to Doctor

Priestley as the discovery of the production of nitrous acid from

pure and phlogisticated airs belongs to Mr. Cavendish, for Doctor

Priestley has discovered this fact, but imputed it to fixed air, and
theresore loses the merit of it. You believe in the formation of

water, and therefore this last must not go into your list.

  I(5.) consider the casual fact observed by Doctor Priestley,

of air passing through bladders and other membranes by means of

moisture, although the bladders themselves are impervious either
to air or moisture separately, to be probably a very important fact
in the animal and vegetable economy, and is necessary in the

                                                                                              C
98 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

Iexplanation of respiration.  think you do not believe in the

meliorating power of vegetables to purify the air, because animals

vitiate and you consider vegetables and animals as the fame
it,

        I
kind of beings.       also am of this latter opinion, considering them

as organised and sensitive creatures, and also of the fame chemical

principles, but very different in the proportion of these principles, so

that some of them may require purer air and others less pure air
                              a                isI
than the rest. Animals in general and the plants that give volatileaaa

alkali in distillation, as onions, require pure air, and vitiate the air

respired. Insects, and plants in general, thrive in air not very

pure, that  is,    good deal phlogisticated, and meliorate it. But
                a

fixed air kills all.                           great number of detached

   Doctor Priestley has discovered

facts, besides these more important ones, such as the acid and

alkaline gases.

The compliment you mean to pay the Doctor           very elegant

one, and he deserves         greatly for having maintained the
I

                       : it
English credit in natural philosophy, which, without him and

Cavendish, would have sunk low. Since you desire me to criticise

the lines, proceed. Between the 4th and 5th lines would insert
to the following purpose " What though to vulgar eyes you are

invisible and pellucid, having neither colours nor constant form to

indicate your presence, but, Proteus-like, take the shape of every

vase you enter, and elude common observation, yet to his favoured

sight you willingly appear, or pour your secrets in his raptured ear."

The next six lines are excellent, the two following not sufficiently

clear, nor should have understood the meaning unless you had
                   I

faid below in prose that one degree of heat unites calces with vital

air, and another degree with inflammable matter disunites them.

The difference of these effects does not consist in the different

degrees of heat, which are not determinate for either effect, but

often the fame degree will do for both. The difference depends

on the presence or absence of inflammable matter, and thereforeI
            OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.            99

would substitute the following thought : " And how you sometimes

insinuate yourselves into your earthly cells (lime, &c), where you
lurk imprisoned and confined by the chains of chemical attraction,
and might for ever remain unnoticed, if fire, acids, or fermentation
did not give you strength enough to break your fetters, and the

elastic gas explode, mount on resounding wings, and rush abroad.
Thus gunpowder exerts its destructive sorce, and sulminating gold

makes hills re-echo."

Doctor DARWIN to Mr. KEIR.

                                   Derby,

Dear Keir,                                 17/// January, 1793.

            I have much availed myself of your observations,
Ifand have corrected my work accordingly.
                                           you will be at the
Itrouble of reading some more of the work shall have time to send
Iyou a part, as have not yet absolutely begun to print. Pray give
Ime a line on this head ; mean whether you have leisure to read

any more of it at present.

  I hope Miss Keir continues well, and am, with Mrs. Darwin's

united compliments to the ladies,

                   Yours affectionately,

                                           E. DARWIN.

On the 20th May, 1790, a paper (vol. 80, part 2, of

the Philosophical  Transactions)   was communicated to the
Royal Society by
                   Mr. Keir.       It was entitled " Experi

ments and Observations on the Dissolution of Metals in

Acids, and their Precipitations, with an account of a new

                                           c2

                   475731
IOO LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

compound Acid Menstruum, useful in some technical
operations of parting metals." In this paper there are

two very important and curious sections, which probably

contributed in no small degree to the future discovery of

t"IhroeOnne,"letchaternod-pprtleahtceeipoittpharteoiroc--enss"o. fOnSTihlvteheer onaferltoemsraetciNtoinoitsnrouiwsshhicAehacdideIrdo--bny,

or its surface, undergoes by the action of a solution of
Silver in Nitrous Acid, or of a pure concentrated Nitrous

Acid."

   Among Mr. Keir's most devoted friends was Mr.

Day, already mentioned as the friend of Doctor Small,

and whose life Mr. Keir published. The following

letter alludes to that most popular of children's books,
" Sandford and Merton," the third volume of which
Mr. Day concluded in 1789.

           Mr. KEIR to Mr. DAY.

           29/// September, 1789.

Dear Sir,

                    1 was very happy in hearing from you some weeks ago

Isuch good accounts of your health and of Mrs. Day's. was then
Igoing to write to you to inquire, for am always distrustsul of an

ague, knowing from my own experience that it is a guest which,

when once admitted, will not lose the stightest opportunity that is
Igiven of renewing his visits. know not whence the proverb came,
Ithat " An ague in the spring is physic for a king," but
                                                          know

that it weakens the constitution much, and leaves an aguish tendency
               OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                      IOI

long afterwards. My health was once much broke by repeated

Iagues, against which found bark but a temporary remedy. In

that state, a chalybeate water operated upon me like a charm, and
Iin a few days recovered my strength and appetite, both which
Ihad been much impaired.
                                   mention this, lest the remains of the
Iague should affect you in the fame manner.
Ichalybeate would have the fame effect.         suppose any other

                                         was highly entertained
Iwith your mother's surprise at your diet in your illness.
                                                            thought
I faw the good old lady sull of anxiety and emotion, while you,

with perfect tranquillity, were devouring your breakfast of hashed
goose. In her time it was the fashion to cure all diseases by

fasting and mortification, which do not seem to agree with the con

stitutions of the present age. Possibly they might have done

better with our sturdy ancestors. But thanks to Doctor Brown, a
Imore genial system seems likely to be introduced.
                                                    fee from the

reviews that his book is published. It is surprising that so simple

and obvious an idea as that of giving a principal attention in

diseases to the degrees of strength or debility should now be

published as a novelty ; and yet the fact thatisit  is     novelty in
                                        is,             a

practice, for  verily believe that, at least since the time ofa
               I

                                a
Boerhaave, who was true Sangrado with respect to bleeding and

hot water, the general effect of medicine has been to weaken the

patient and consequently to strengthen the disease whereas, in
                                                    ;

fevers especially, for which no specific remedies have been dis

covered, the only chance of recovery to keep up the strength of

the patient, that nature may do her best to fight the disease, since

the Doctor cannot. This seems as simple truth as the barber

Sutton's grand improvement in the treatment of the small pox,
" that when patient
a                                  too hot he ought to be cooled." Both
                 is

these propositions would have been assented to in general terms by
everybody before Sutton or Brown existed, and yet the whole

force of either proposition was not understood nor felt till the

experience of these singular men made them obvious and irresistible;
102 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

for Sutton's method has been adopted by all the faculty without

exception, and although one Doctor (Dimsdale) has been made a
Baron for inoculating the Imperial family at Petersburg, and

another Doctor (Ingenhouz\ for having inoculated another
Imperial brood at Vienna, decorates his picture in the front of his

book with a laurel crown suspended over his head, with the
inscription " Ob Cefaream prolem servatam," yet the truth these
      if

                              I
                                                                                   j
                                                                                                    is,
laurels and honours belong justly to the old barber and although

the faculty may rail at Brown, yet doubt not they will adopt his
method so far as to leave off starving their patients. He seems,

however, the reviewer's description of his system be just, to have

carried his idea too far, and simplified too much his theory and

practice, by reducing all diseases to merely different degrees of

strength or privation of strength, and all remedies to stimuli and

sedatives.            copy of my " Dictionary of Chemistry " by
       have sent youIa
is I
M. de Verdieu.                  is
                      am very glad to hear that your third volume

    about publishing. It much wished for, and really believe
                                       ;

                                            I
that book more likely to be of solid semee than any that has
      is

been published. It    is  of little use to write for grown-up people                                     ;

their acquired habits will generally prevail but young unformed

minds may be influenced into action and habit.

   Your former letter, giving the history of your late visitor, surprised
me; but your last, in which you enter more particularly into circum

stances, really astonish me.           doubt whether there another man
                                    I           is

living that would have carried his friendship so far as you did, not

only in the most unremitting attention and attendance, but
particularly in encountering the censure of the world in following
your own reason in opposition to the faculty, which censure would

have been inevitable the patient had not been cured.
                      if                                  doubt

                                                       I

whether many of the faculty themselves, armed as they are with

the prerogatives of life and death, would have ventured so decisively,

and consequently so effectually, in pursuing their judgment. From
        OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

what you mention I think it not improbable that the father had

come to you with prejudices received from his physician at home ;
but he certainly changed his opinion, for he expressed clearly when

he was here that his daughter's recovery was owing to your manage
Iment.
        had wrote to him, upon his first informing me of his

daughter's illness, my opinion of your medical skill, and expressed

myself pretty strongly with a view of making his mind easy. Upon

Irecollection believe he left Scotland before my letter arrived.

Doctor Darwin tells me that his poem fells so fast that he is

encouraged to finish the remainder of it.

        I am, dear Sir,

        Yours most affectionately,

                                            JAMES KEIR.

Thomas Day, Esq.,
        Annefley, near Chertsey, Surrey.

   P.S. -- We are happy to hear of the excellent effects of exercise
on Mrs. Day's health and strength. . It is the want of a sufficient

quantity of exercise or labour in this civilized state that makes
almost every body either ill or not quite well.

   Mr. Day never received this letter.      He had died
suddenly the day before it was written.
                                             The accident
which terminated his life is thus recorded
                                            by Mr. Keir
in his life of Day : --

   (Page 97). "On the 28th day of September, 1789, as Mr. Day
was riding from his house, in Surrey, to his mother's feat at Barehill,

an end was at once put to his valuable life, at the age of forty-one
104 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

years. His horse, having taken fright at the sight and motion of a
winnowing vane, started suddenly across the road, by which his
balance was so disturbed that his spur happened to stick in the
flank of the animal, which thereupon, exerting all its strength, threw

its rider to a considerable distance, with his head foremost, on a
stony road. By this fall his brain suffered such a concussion that
he never afterwards spoke ; but being carried to a neighbouring
 house, he died before the surgeon, who was sent for, could arrive.

His wife and mother, hearing of his fall, but ignorant of the event,
flew to the fatal spot, and were going to enter the house where he

had lately expired, when they were stopped by the surgeon, whose
troubled aspect, expressive silence, and waving hand pointing to
them to return, informed them too clearly that no hope remained."

   When the news of this sad event was sent to Mr.
Keir, who was not appointed executor as has been stated
by some writers, he contemplated writing a Memoir of
his friend. It appears that the same idea had occurred to
Mr. Edgeworth, who was also a friend of Mr. Day ;
but Mr. Keir sent an extract of his work to Mrs. Day,
who was much pleased with it and would not hear of its
being abandoned. The extract is as follows : --

   (Page 1 6). "That much of Mr. Day's constitutional character

was derived from his mother appears clearly to those who knew
the singular strength of mind of that venerable lady, to whose steady
and judicious management of him in his infancy, as well as to her
exemplary conduct in life, he was also indebted for his earliest
good impressions, and for the first bias and direction of his mind

to honourable pursuits. A small anecdote will show how much of
his fortitude he may have inherited from this parent :-- When she
                       OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

was yet a young unmarried woman, while (he was walking in com
pany with another young lady through a field, a bull came running
up to them with all the marks of malevolence. Her friend began
to run towards the stile, but was prevented by Miss Bonham (the
maiden name of Mr. Day's mother), who told her that as she
could not reach the stile soon enough to fave herself, and as it is
the nature of these animals to attack persons in flight, her life would

be in great danger if she attempted to run, and would be inevitably
lost if she chanced to fall ; but that, if she would steal gently to the
stile, she herself would take off the bull's attention from her, by
standing between them. Accordingly, turning her face towards the
animal with the firmest aspect she could assume, she fixed her eyes
steadily upon his. It is faid by travellers that a lion itself may be
controuled by the steady look of a human being, but that no sooner

a man turns his back than the beast springs upon him as his prey.
Miss Bonham, to whom this property of animals seems to have been
known, had the presence of mind to apply it to the fafety of her
friend and of herself. By her steady aspect she checked the bull's
career ; but he showed the strongest marks of indignation at being
so controuled, by roaring and tearing the ground with his feet and
horns. While he was thus engaged in venting his rage on the
turf she cautiously retreated a few steps without removing her eyes
from him. When he observed that she had retreated he advanced
till she stopped, and then he also stopped and again renewed his
frantic play. Thus, by repeated degrees, she at length arrived at
the stile, where she accomplished her safety; and thus, by a presence
of mind rarely seen in a person of her youth and sex, she not only
faved herself, but also, at the hazard of her own life, protected her
friend. Some days afterwards this bull gored its master."

    This is the story of the bull mentioned in the
following letter to the Son of Doctor Darwin : --
io6 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

Mr. KEIR to ERASMUS DARWIN, Esq.

                                    Near Birmingham,

                                    27th February, 1790.

My dear Sir,

You will receive, along with this, exact copies of the
Ipoems you gave me.
                     received yours of the 22nd, and am much

concerned to hear you have been indisposed. What you propose

respecting the mode of settlement is perfectly consistent with my

Iideas of propriety, and with my wishes, and am much obliged to

you for your giving so much thought on this matter, and very

highly so for your acceptance of the trust. Along with the other

I Ipapers have sent you a copy of what sent to Mrs. Day, relating

to Mrs. Phillips the story of the bull ; and Mrs. Day seems very

Imuch pleased with what have faid concerning her Mother, and

tells me that she perceives Mrs. Phillips is much pleased with it

too, and fays my method of telling the story of the bull has given

her a quite different opinion of it. Mrs. Day, with her usual good

ness, seemed very desirous of some  compliment to the old lady,

and indeed she highly deserves it.  Mr. Edgeworth has sent me
a packet of letters from Mr. Day
                                    to him, which he proposes to

publish in the Miscellany, and a few anecdotes, but of not much
consequence. He tells me that he intended to have published a

good many more letters, and nas much history as would have made

a handsome volume. 1 have written him a long letter, to show

that he may still pursue his intention, since he has so many

materials, that his publication of such a work will not at all inter

fere with mine, that nothing is more frequent than two or more

publications on the fame life, that my plan being, as he himself

fays, quite different from his, mine being more a general account,

his being a collection of anecdotes, they do not preclude each
              OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

Iother, and have therefore asked him to reconsider the matter.

You would be much entertained with these letters of Mr. Day, but
I Idare not let them go out of my possession.
                                               expect from you

and from your Father many anecdotes and assistance to complete
Imy work.
              labour much under the want of materials. Pray

assist me, as well as your memory enables you, with facts and bons
mots, of which Mr. Day faid abundance, but had not so faithsul a

recorder as Doctor Johnson had in Mrs. Thrale.

                        I am, my dear Sir,

                                               Yours affectionately,

    Erasmus Darwin, Esq.,                      JAMES KEIR.

                                       Derby.

to  The next  "letter alludes to               Mr. Day's curious      attempt
                                                a model wife for      himself.
     educate    Sabrina " into

The circumstances, as given by Mr. Keir in his "Life
of Mr. Day," were these : --

   (Page 27). " The most singular of these projects was an experi
ment on female education, in which he proposed to unite the purity

of female virtue with the fortitude and hardiness of constitution of

a Spartan virgin, and with a simplicity of taste that should despise
the frivolous vanities, the effeminate manners, and the dissipated
pleasures which, according to Rousseau's declamation, constitute
the female character of the present age. With this view he received

into his guardianssiip two female children, whom he intended to

educate himself according to his pre-conceived system. And he

actually proceeded, during some years, in the execution of this
project. The experience, which had at first been wanting to him,
at length gave him convincing proofs of the impracticability of this
io8 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

mode of education, while his acquired knowledge of mankind
suggested doubts of its expediency. Finding himself obliged to
relinquish his project of forming Rousseau's children of nature in
the centre of England, he nevertheless continued these children
under his protection and maintenance, and gave them such educa

tion as this kingdom affords. It is not improbable that at the

time when Mr. Day undertook to educate, according to his own
ideas, these two female children, being himself but young, he might
entertain some expectation of marrying one of them ; but when
he had relinquished that scheme, and had delivered them up, while
they were yet children, to a boarding school, they were then no
longer children of nature, but of the world, and they could retain
none of the specific differences which distinguished them from
others, and on which any expectations that he might have originally
formed could have been grounded. Here we cannot avoid re
marking the contrast in the conduct of Mr. Day and of Rousseau,
although the former had been inclined to think favourably of the
writings of the latter on the subject of education. Mr. Day received
two orphans under his protection, while the celebrated philosopher
of Switzerland placed five of his own children in a foundling
hospital at Paris."

   The letter which alludes to this curious experiment is

as follows : --

Mr. KEIR to Doctor DARWIN.

              Smethwick,

              i$th March, 1790.

Dear Doctor,

            I am greatly obliged to you for your letter. What you

fay relating to the propriety of mentioning Mr. Day's experiment
                 OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

of education as being characteristic is unquestionably just, and

strikes me strongly, but how to execute ? What you propose is too

well known not to be the accurate Jlate ; and it could be easily con
tradicted, and thus the credit of the whole history brought into

question. Another difficulty is to reconcile the making mention of
this affair with the delicacy of Mrs. Day and of Mrs. B * * * for

I would not fay anything of it without their consent. Nevertheless,
Iwhat you have faid to me (and am glad you have recommended

    has determined me to attempt and will fend you copy of
it)                                  it I                                       I I it a

   I                                       a
                                                  it,

                                                   I

                                                                 it,
what shall propose.  I               am glad you approve in general of my

method but hope, when have finished that before goes to
      ;       I

the press you will examine           little more critically. As have so

little matter, the manner becomes of more importance, and know

your feeling with regard to elegance of composition to be very fine.

The great difficulty to know how far man may go in oratory.

A man of acquired reputation can go farther than allowed to
I                                    a
       I
                                                                      is                  a
                       it                                                    a
new man.                        isshall desire my clerk to call upon you for the manu

script when he comes to Derby, which will be in about fortnight,

and shall send again when            completed, and shall request
                                     it
                                        it       endeavoured to persuade
                                             is

                                             I
you to be so good as to read over.

Mr. Edgeworth to resume his intention of writing anecdotes of

Mr. Day, which assured him was nowise interfering with my plan,I
but he seems altogether to decline it. He talked at first of " our
joining our forces " in writing an account of Mr. Day. conceived
                                                                      is I
that to be impossible in such work as mine, which a continued
                                     a

                                             I
discourse and must be in one manner from beginning to end, and

therefore could not be done by two authors with sea between
Ifthem.                                                               it
                                                                             a
              had been collection of anecdotes might have been
            I I it
                                  a
possible, as told him. Nevertheless, am afraid he was not quite

well pleased, although in his letters to me he does not show any

displeasure.  was very sorry to hear from him that he has lost his

favourite Daughter, Honora, the image of her Mother, but, as he

fays, superior both in beauty and understanding.
I IO LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

   I am much obliged to you for your advice to me to be converted

to the true faith in chemistry ; your principal argument in favour

of which however           is,  not thatis            true, but thatis          becoming
                                           it                          it
                                                  is                        is
fajtiionable. This argument of great consequence to an author,

   grant, more than its truth. But believe this not an age in
I                                         I

which any hypothetical system (for both the phlogistic and anti
phlogistic are greatly hypothetical) will be adopted exclusively.

Besides, in order to be convert of any consequence, man must
                           I                                          Ia
have first sinned egregiously. Now do not think have yeta
                                        I                                  a
persecuted oxygene sufficiently to make my conversion thing ofI
any eclat. In fact, neither believe in phlogiston nor in oxygene,
nor in any other of Lavoisier's metaphysical principles butiIt,
                                                          is it a

                                                               is
                                                                              ;

                                                                          I
look upon the supposition of phlogiston to be mere mode of

explanation and as to the existence of                    do not by any means
            ;
pretend that               proved, and am certain that                never can be
              it                                                      their pedantry
                   is

                  I
disproved. What dislike in the antiphlogistians

and presumption, in pretending that their system proved, not

withstanding               much more hypothetical than the other, in which
       is
                 it
                       is
there  one assumed matter, whereas in Lavoisier's there are

oxygene, hydrogene, calorique, and carbone, all which are ima

ginary or at least hypothetical beings, and yet they are continually

talking of demonstration, &c. As to their language,                                     formed
                                          I it
                                               is

                                                      it

                                                              is

                                                          I

                                                                       it

                                                                                    is
on the supposition of their system being certain.                     use the old

language, not because approve of (for being founded on theoryII
  difapprove of it), but because there no other, excepting another
I
         I
formed also upon theory. Now                          may use the old language,

although doubt of the theory on which                     founded, being old

and once received, but cannot use another theoretical language

without taking for granted that the theory true. The old languageis
will be known and understood whatever theory prevails. The
principal discoveries and facts of chemistry are recorded in that

language. But the new theory should be exploded, as doubt

not will, its language will fall for ever. In considering Lavoisier's
   it

                  if

                                                            I

theory we should distinguish between the physical and metaphysical
              OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                                                                        III

parts : the latter respects supposed beings ; on this the language

is founded. This can never be proved, nor, in such an age as this,

has any man authority enough to establish a creed in any system of

metaphysical chemistry. The physical part is perhaps the only one
Iworth considering.
                      have adopted the greatest part of but Dr.
                               it
Beddowe's book will show that       is

                                   Ia

                                                       it,

                                                  I
                                                                       it,
                                                                           it
                                                                                            is
                               hundred years old. They

have adopted the composition of water. This may be determined

some time     have not denied, nor do deny but think
is
           a

          ;I
not proved. The experiment of electrifying water will be decisive

when the whole quantity of water will be converted into airs. It

not new discovery that water absorbs every kind of air, and

gives out some by boiling, but more by red heat or by electricity.
                               a

The proof of the composition of water, though necessary for
Lavoisier's system, does not at all disprove the theory of phlogiston.
Your shaving can surnish an argument that inflammable air comes

from the iron and not from the water, for why else should stink
I

            it
                                                                                                    it

                                                                                                                                                ?
hope will remind you of this every time you smell it. You are

such an infidel in religion that you cannot believe in transubstan-

tiation, yet you can believe that apples and pears, hay and oats,

bread and wine, sugar, oil, and vinegar, are nothing but water and

charcoal, and that    great improvement in language to call all
I
                          it
                                  is
                                      a

                            I
                                                                                                         is
these things by one word, oxyde hydro-carbonneux. Your hint

about giving explanations of these words in the Dictionary good,

and will cerlainly follow it. will enter personally but little into

theory in my book, only showing the two different modes of

explanation of the different parts of chemistry, whereas the anti-

phlogistians never deign to speak of any but their own, so that mine

will have the advantage over theirs in that respect. Berthollet,

in the Chemical Annals, gives me the praise of candour, and of not

being a partial adverfary, but an adopter of their notions when                                              I

approve of them, &c.

                      Yours affectionately,

                                       JAMES KEIR.
112 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

                  W. SEWARD to Mr. KEIR.

                                                                            yd March, 1791.

Dear Sir,

           I'm as dissatisfied with the engraving as you can be ;

yet remember Bovi was many days after his time, and you
Iappeared anxious to have it as soon as possible.
                                                                            cannot at

present take the plate to Mr. Bovi to be corrected, as Mrs. Day

has been this morning with Stockdale, and expressed a desire that

your book should appear without the plate, and that the plate
Ishould be destroyed. Mais J'attends vos ordres toujours.
                                                                            beg

my compliments to Mrs. Keir, and remain,

                  Dear Sir,

                  Your most obedient Servant,

                                                                            W. SFAVARD.

           Mr. KEIR to Doctor DARWIN.

                             Near Birmingham,
                                                April, 1791.

Dear Doctor

           My book has been ready for publication, printed, &c,

these two months, but waited for an engraving of Mr. Day, which

was at last produced, but with such a perfect destruction of the
likeness,* that it has been thought, by Mrs. Day and myself, better

to destroy it than publish a head in which no soul seems to reside.

The picture was as like as it could stare ; but the engraver, an
Italian, and pupil of the celebrated Bertollozzi, has spoiled all.

As soon as it was determined to publish
                  I                                                       ordered copies to be
                                            iIt,

                                                                       it.
sent to you, Mr. Darwin, and Dr. Robert, all in one parcel

directed to you.  hope you have received
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  ll3

   I am very glad to hear the progress of your first part. Immor
Itality will be your sure reward, but am also glad to hear that

you have likewise another reward, which poets in general stand as
much in need of-- ready money.

    Doctor Priestley's experiments (how that he can at pleasure

produce pure water, or water mixed with nitrous acid, by burning
the purest dephlogisticated and inflammable airs. The production of

the acid depends (as I have maintained in my Dictionary -- Nitrous

Acid) on the proportion of dephlogisticated air being sufficient.
When this air is in too small quantity to produce acid, the matter
of the acid forms phlogijlicated air, which is known to be one of the
elements of this acid, and which is always produced in this com

bustion, but in a larger quantity when the acid is not produced.
The production of phlogisticated air is also given by me (page 118)
as the reason why the acid does not always appear. There is there

fore nothing in Doctor Priestley's experiments but what was

consistent at least with my former notions ; but he has proved this
appearance or non-appearance from the proportion of the airs more
distinctly than had been done before, although in fact the fame

Iobservation occurred to Cavendish, and from this observation

inferred my reasonings. The experiments therefore tend to prove

that something is always produced besides pure water, when these

airs are burnt. Priestley has found that air from red ppte. Q is

perfectly pure, and therefore he sets aside the supposition of the

anti-phlogistians that his acid always came from phlogisticated air
being mixed with his dephlogisticated. The experiments also accord
with, but do not prove, my theory, that phlogisticated air consists of

pure air and phlogiston in a certain proportion, and that nitrous

acid consists of the fame elements with a larger proportion of pure

Iair. But can neither prove this theory nor the existence of any

hypothetical principle, as phlogiston, hydrogene, carbone, &c, &c. ;

Ibut think I can easily prove that those who affirm the existence

of any of them do not understand logic, in which science the anti-

                                                                                             H
ii4 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

phlogistians are particularly deficient, although they recommend it

in their prefaces.

Please to make Mrs. Keir's and my best respects to Mrs.

Darwin and your family, also to your Son, Mr. Darwin, when you
Ifee him.
           am obliged to conclude, dear Doctor,

                      Your affectionate friend,

                                                  J. KEIR. -

           Mr. W. SEWARD to Mr. KEIR.

                                                  Monday.

Dear Sir,

           I Iwas very sorry was not able to come to Mrs. Day's

yesterday evening.

My house is at your service, to authenticate the account of Mr.

Day's juvenile life.
I IMrs. Day has, trust, accepted of the dedication.
                                                     expect
IBovi this morning about the engraving, which will endeavour to

have done au plus vite.

  I am glad that you are fatisfied with the likeness Mr. Wood has

made of our old friend.

  I beg my compliments to Mrs. Keir, and remain,

                      Dear Sir,

                      Your very obedient servant,

                                                 W. SEWARD.

   P.S. -- Mr. Bovi promises to have the engraving ready by the
fifth of March, and will abate three guineas of the price, which we
sunpose to have been that of 15 guineas.
                   OF THE LATE JAMES KE1R.                  "5

   Mr. Keir completed the work in March, 1791, and
it was provided with the engraving of Mr. Day, which
was well executed by Mr. Bovi from the drawing of
Mr. Wood. A copy of it was accepted by the Royal
Society on the 12th of May, 1 791.

   Mrs. Day did not long survive the loss of her husband,
as appears from a letter addressed to Mr. Keir from Mr.

John Stockdale, of London, who was the publisher of
Mr. Day's numerous works.

          Mr. JOHN STOCKDALE to Mr. KEIR,

                                         June i$th, 1792,

                                                 Half-past 4 o'clock.

Dear Sir,

              I've this instant received your favour of the 14th inst.
IAll that can fay at present        that Mrs. Day got up and drank
              I
                                            is,
                                                                               a

                                                                    I
coffee at 10 o'clock in the morning, was taken ill, and expired

immediately.       think with you that she died of broken heart.

can fay from my own knowledge that she has not enjoyed one

day's comfort or health since our ever to be lamented friend's

accident      am very certain, from long converfation that passed
I                                   I
between her and me alone, that she wished death, preferable to life.it ;Ia
                                                a
                       is
                                            iIf I is
               I                                   I

                                it
She expressly assured me that all comforts in this life were at an end

with her. She now gone, and trust happy. She was one of

the most amiable and sensible women that ever had the honour

to converse with.  have had many friends since began business     ;

the best are gone, and appears to me as  must lose them all.

How far may be prudent to print new edition of Mr. Day's

Life have my doubts, in point of profit, or without running some

risk, as the present edition has been some time in going off. It has

                                                      H  2
I 1 6 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

Istood in catalogues that have printed not less than 30,000 in
Idifferent forms, so that it has had every possible chance that could

give it ; yet, was it my property instead of yours, it never should
I Ibe out of print in one form or another while lived.
                                                        mention

Ithis merely to show you my opinion, but do not now speak as a

bookseller.

Mrs. Stockdale desires her kind respects ; she and daughter

are distressed at our second loss beyond description, as they were

rather favourites, or at least vain enough to think themselves so.

             I am, dear Sir,

             Your greatly obliged and sincere well wisher,

                              JOHN STOCKDALE.

   In the Autobiography of Mrs. Schimmelpenninck,
the eldest daughter of Mr. Galton, a descriptive account
is given of the effect produced on the philosophers of
Birmingham by the news of the approaching Revolution

in France.

   " It was wonderful to me," she says, " to see Doctor
Priestley, Doctor Withering, Mr. Watt, Mr.

Boulton himself, and Mr. Keir, manifest the most

intense interest, each according to his prevailing charac

teristics." This was in the summer of 1788.

   At the time when the estates of the Church were being

secularized and put up for sale for paper money, which
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                                         II7

had become depreciated in value from £100 to five

millings, Monsieur De la Metherie, the great French
chemist, wrote from Paris to Mr. Keir on the 1st July,

1790:--

"Depuis votre derniére, nos operations politiques ont fait bien

du chemin ; et malgré tous nos ennemis exterieurs qui peuvent

tant, les choses vont on ne peut mieux. Car, ne croiez pas tous

les mensonges qu'ils font repandre dans toute l'Europe, ce que ce

Calonne propage, surtout en Angleterre. Excepté les malheurs

excités à Nismes et à Montauban les autres mouvements font bien

peu de chose. Nous coupons le mal dans fa racine ; toute dis
tinction aristocratique, toute noblesse, vient d'être détruite. Le
clergé est. depouillé de ses immenses revenus, et il fera falarié

comme tous les autres fonctionnaires publics. Par ce moyen, ces

grands corps, toujours les ennemis du bien public, parcequils ne

cherchent que le bien particulier, ne pourront plus nous nuire.

J'avais préfagé toutes ces opérations dans mes Principes de la
Philofophie Naturelle. Nous esperons que vous corrigerez aussi

bientôt les vices de vôtre constitution.    Veuillez me rappeler au
                                          Societé, Messieurs Watt,
souvenir de tous les membres de vôtre     Vous connoisiez les senti

Boulton, Priestley, et Withering.

ments distingués d'estime avec lesquels j'ai l'honneur d'être,

Monsieur,

Votre très humble,

et très obéissant serviteur,

                                          De la METHERIE.

Monsieur James Keir, de la Société Royale de Londres."
1 1 8 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

   Mr. Smiles remarks that "the impressionable character
of Doctor Priestley was moved in an extraordinary-

*****degree by the pregnant events which followed each other

in quick succession at Paris.

His chemical pursuits were, for a time, forgotten, and
he wrote and preached, like one possessed, of human
brotherhood and of the downfall of tyranny and priest

craft."

It may be interesting to give Mr. Keir's opinion of

the French Revolution.  Writing on the 19th March,

1791, he says : --

   " The Revolution of France is the sole triumph of reafon, having
been the effect of the gradual illumination of the human mind

over a whole nation, by philofophy, showing that the true end of

government is the happiness of the many, and dispelling those

banesul prejudices which established the tyranny of the few, and

which were the relics of the ignorance of barbarous ages.
   " Happily the fame necessity does not exist in this country. For

although our government may not be the best possible, it is

certainly too good to risk any public convulsion, in hopes of a

better, or to attempt any other change than such as may naturally

follow from progressive advancement and extension of knowledge

among the people, by which our constitution may be rather restored

to its true principles, which are excellent, and surther improved

and adapted to the cultivated genius of the age, than altered or

overturned."

  A public dinner on the 14th July, 1791, furnished a

pretext for the Birmingham Riots, which commenced by
                OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.               II9

the destruction of Doctor Priestley's house and of the

two Meeting houses ; but the cause of these disturbances

has been shown to have arisen from a religious rather

than a political excitement. Doctor Priestley, having
on the destruction of his house gone immediately to
London, wrote several letters to Mr. Keir. These
letters, and Mr. Keir's replies, are highly characteristic,
and give a true view of the origin of these riots.

                Doctor PRIESTLEY to Mr. KEIR.

                                    London,

                                           22nd July, 1 79 1.

    Dear Sir,

            I am very happy to fee a copy of your letter to the

printer of the Birmingham Chronicle, and in return inclose copies

of my Address to the Inhabitants of Birmingham, and of Mr.
Russel's Account of the Proceedings on July 14th. Both these have

Ibeen in the London papers, and have just sent yours to the

printer of the Morning Chronicle.
I am happy to hear that all is quiet with you now, but when it
I Iwill be proper for me to come to you cannot tell.
                                                      fear not

Ibefore the next Lunar Society. Whether shall ever have it in my

power to collect another apparatus for experiments is quite

                      in great measure, my settling again at
uncertain, as indeed  is,
                              is a
Birmingham, though there no place in the world that should
                                               I

prefer to  it.

The extra copies of my last paper for the Philosophical Tran

sactions are printed, and shall soon send some to Mr. Galton
                      I
120 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

Ito be presented to each of the members of the Lunar Society.
I Ibeg my compliments to them, and as long as live, shall, with

much fatisfaction, think of our many happy meetings.

                             I am, in haste,

                                                        Dear Sir,
                                                          Yours sincerely,

                                                        J. PRIESTLEY.

           Doctor PRIESTLEY to Mr. KEIR.

                                   London,

                                            29M July, 1 79 1.

Dear Sir,

          I thank you for your kind letters. One Quaker at least,
I find, did attend the Revolution dinner in London. One of the
Icompany told me there were more. This, however, did not hear
Itill had got the correction you sent inserted in the Morning

Chronicle.

  I never thought of returning to Birmingham till my friends there
Ishould think it fafe, and on other accounts advifable ; and this,

now begin to fear, will not be so soon as you intimate. However,

I am ready to attend the first summons, and earnestly wish it may

be before the next Lunar Society. But your meeting must not

depend upon this event
I IWith this fend each of you a copy of my late, and fear last,
Ipaper for the Philosophical Transactions.
                                            shall always recollect,

with peculiar fatisfaction and regret, our many cheersul and im

proving meetings ; and, if not a constant, shall indulge the hope

of being an occasional attendant.
                OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

IYou were certainly a better judge than was of the spirit of the

times. But even you could not have expected such brutal excesses

Ias have taken place ; and yet am willing to hope much from

time, from your seasonable letter, and the representations of the

more calm and reasonable members of the Church of England, if

not from the interposition of government and the execution of the

Ilaws, in which wish for moderation.

  II lately dined with Mr. Sheridan, who faid should meet Mr.

Fox. He, however, was prevented from attending, but desired Mr.

Sheridan to fay that he wished to take the matter up in whatever

manner we should think proper, by motion in the House on the

subject. They conceive that the encouragement given to this

High Church spirit by the Court arises from their willingness to

crush Mr. Fox, who has taken our part, and that they hoped by

Ithese measures to intimidate us into silence. This can hardly
Ithink to be the cafe, and am unwilling to connect our cause with

that of any political party ; since, upon the face of as you have
                                                           it,

                                                                  I
clearly shown,  wholly of religious nature. However, faid
                it

                  I is
                                         a
there would be time enough to take our measures before the next

meeting of Parliament.

                am, with my best respects to Mrs. Keir,

                                            Dear Sir,

                                            Yours sincerely,

                                                       J.  PRIESTLEY.

To James Keir, Esq.,

               West Bromwich.

   In November, Doctor Priestley wrote very elabo

rately an Appeal, which however he did not feel justified
122 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

in publishing without the knowledge of his friends,

giving rise to the following characteristic and interesting

correspondence : --

           Mr. GALTON to Mr. KEIR.

Deax Sir,

             Three sheets of Doctor Priestley's Appeal were given
me by Doctor Withering and Mr. Russel, and have been

perused by Mr. Berrington. I have taken the liberty of sending

them to you, hoping that you will do Doctor Priestley the favour

of reading it and making such remarks as you may think proper,
and afterwards returning it to Doctor Withering.

You will doubtless discover that it has neither beginning nor
Iend.
         wish it could be returned to-morrow, if you could make it

convenient, and that you would meet Doctor Withering, Mr.
Russel, and Mr. Berrington, either at Doctor Withering's in

the Square, or at Steelhoufe Lane, to morrow morning about
1 1 o'clock, in order that no time may be lost in transmitting to

Doctor Priestley the united sentiments of his friends on the

propriety of suspending the publication and altering some pasfages.

   With compliments to Mrs. Keir, in which Mrs. Galton

unites,

                            I am, dear Sir,

                            Your obliged friend,

                                             S. GALTON, Junr.

Friday,

      lith November, 1791.
                  OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.       123

            Mr. KEIR to Doctor PRIESTLEY.

                                               Westbromwich,

                                                    lith November, 1791.

Dear Sir,

               Mr. Galton sent me a few sheets of your Appeal to
peruse, and wished me to meet him with Mr. Berrington and

Doctor Withering next day, which I did.

   We seemed each of us to have formed the fame opinion, which
we communicated to Mr. Russel, who was also present, and whom

we asked to inform you, but he requested us to write to you

ourselves.

The point on which the expediency of your publication turns
                                                in
                                                                        is,
think, whether will have good or bad effects. With regard to
I
         I

                           it
                                           it
yourself, doubt whether                        be necesfary, as you have already

asserted your innocence and you have received,  the several

addresses sent to you, the most ample and honourable testimonies

of respect to yourself and of abhorrence of your late persecution

that  believe were ever given to any man. Your character
      aI

                          a it
appears to me to rest with more firmness and dignity on these
testimonies than can on anything which man can fay of him
                                               is a
self. By bringing the subject into question again you remove
from this ground of testimony to that of your own defence, and willif

                                                                    is
                                                                                    it
open field for perpetual controversy in which the simple facts

will be overwhelmed in altercation. As your cause just, the

Ifcloser you keep the attention of mankind to facts the better.

you have any new ones to communicate they will perhaps come
with more effect and with less ill will to yourself they should be

introduced into an historical narration of the whole affair by

another person, which am happy to hear intended to be done
                                I

by one eminently capable.
124 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

   With regard to the general effects which the publication of your

IAppeal may have, should think myself inexcusable if I did not
I Igive the opinion that have been asked, freely, and trust to your
Iusual candour in receiving it ; for must fay that the effects which

I think may be apprehended from it are not favourable.

That it will irritate your professed enemies may not be con
Isidered of so much consequence ; but
                                       think it is of great

consequence not to give them fresh handles to keep and stir up the

animosity of the multitude, and of the most moderate of their party,

against you and your friends, the dissenters. There are expressions

there too fit for their purpose ; and you very well know that fairness

of representation would not be attended to. In Birmingham they

wish much for a subject to stir up the people against the dissenters,

and to terrify them from the prosecution of the magistrates. But

the prudent silence of the dissenters has given no handle, and

therefore they are obliged to harp on the old nonsense of Mr.
Russel's list of toasts, and converfation with Dudley, master os

the Hotel, things of no consequence whatever. But your Appeal

will surnish them with a new source of abuse. They will from

thence represent, or misrepresent, the dissenters as declared enemies

to the Church and difaffected to the State. The generality of your

observations upon the clergy cannot fail of giving offence to the

more moderate clergymen and lay-churchmen. You have, indeed,

Imentioned that some of them behaved well ; but think you

mention them rather as exceptions to the general rule. It is im

possible almost to prove anything against a large body of men so

dispersed ; and individuals might fay that they were unjustly

accused. The instances that have come to your knowledge are of
Ithe more violent, who could not restrain their sentiments.
                                                             am

Ithoroughly convinced many of their numbers, should hope the
Igreater part, were sorry for your persecution.
                                                 should think it

more just and more politic to fix the odium on the most guilty

individuals, and let the rest come off as easily as possible under the
   OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                              I25

plea of delusion or misconception. This conduct might draw off

the most numerous and honest of the Church party and leave the

violent men to stand by themselves, whereas general reflections can
Ionly tend to unite them more closely.
                                          beg you not to think me

an advocate for tame submission to gross personal injuries and
Iflagrant violations of law and liberty.
                                          think it is a duty which

the dissenters owe to their country to do everything they can to

bring offenders of all ranks to justice, and their conduct to public

Ilight ; but, in doing this, would confine myself to judicial inquiry

and to the publication of authenticated facts, as being the only

mode in which the opinion of impartial men can be influenced.

Your reflections on the magistrates may be true, but may not be

easily proved ; and whether true or false may possibly be the sub
ject of prosecution for a libel or action of damages. As their

conduct is to come before a Court of Justice, the propriety of pre
Ijudging them may be questioned.
                                  should fear also another effect,

that government would become more, remiss in prosecuting the

magistrates and in protecting the dissenters in suture if they should

meet with any passages that should give them offence. These are

Ithe effects which fear might result from the publication of your

Appeal.

  I do not presume to give you advice on the general propriety of

publishing but only state my opinions of the effects and tendency.
   it,

          I
                       II
I  may be mistaken, and you may have other and superior con

siderations of which do not pretend to judge. It gives me the

greatest pleasure to hear that you are preparing to recommence

your philosophical pursuits, which hope will be attended with all

the good effects as the former. sincerely hope that you and Mrs.

Priestley may find Hackney an agreeable and tranquil residence,

and that you both may enjoy much health and happiness.

   I  am, dear Sir, with great respect and regard,

      Most sincerely yours,

                                          JAMES KEIR.
1 26 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

   Mr. Keir, not receiving any reply from Doctor
Priestley for some weeks, seems to have forwarded a
copy of his letter to Doctor Withering, mentioning at

the same time the rather singular fact that he had received
no answer to it.

              Doctor WITHERING to Mr. KEIR.

                                                                      i6lh January, 1792.
   Dear Sir,

            I thank you for the perusal of the enclosed. It

certainly deserved an answer, as being evidently the result of close
thinking and fair reasoning upon a subject of some importance ;

Ibut perhaps you may have had a letter before this time.

intended to have sent you the Doctor's letter containing his reasons
for publication, but cannot lay my hand upon it.

   The Extinguiflier Maker* is much approved, and those who have
taken it up, expecting something like the Button Bumistier, have
been agreeably surprised at finding the marks of a masterly hand.

  IOn account of the absence of B. and W., think to let the 31st

January pass by, and particularly as there is reason to expect

Doctor Parr at our next meeting, on which account I would wish

it to be a sull one.

                            I remain, dear Sir,

                                                       Very faithsully yours,

                                                          W. WITHERING.

                        * A Political Pamphlet by Mr. Keir.
                    OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

            Doctor PRIESTLEY to Mr. KEIR.

                                               Clapton,
                                                       12/7; January, 1792.

Dear Sir,

            IThough have not before found leisure to write to

Iyou, was not insensible to your kindness and friendship in giving

Ime your opinion with respect to my Appeal. Had not been

actually pledged to publish, it would have had considerable weight

with me ; but this was a circumstance of which you were not
Iapprised.
            have, however, cancelled eleven leaves, in order to

strike out pasfages that were thought to be unnecesfarily offensive,

Iand am willing to hope that you will not find much to object to

at present, especially as some other publications will have pre

ceded it and made way for  particularly T. Sobersides* in theit,

humorous, and High Church Politics* in the serious way. Both*, I

these publications  greatly admire, and where they are read theyis
            I
must do much good. With respect to myself,aI  I           cannot help

thinking that my silence, considering my aptnefs to write, would

have borne an unfavourable construction, as would my writing with

less spirit, or in any other manner than had been used to do.
You will receive copy of the correcled Appeal about the fame

time that you receive this.                    who lectured on Experi

   An ingenious young man, Mr. * *

mental Philosophy in the New College, at Birmingham as my
successor, and, hear, gives great fatisfaction. He will think him

self happy in being noticed by any of my philosophical friends.
                                                                  I;
have undertaken to give his lectures, and some others, gratis and     I
this will be of some use to myself in obliging me to attend to the
whole course of chemistry, with several branches of which was

but little acquainted. But having no substances to exhibit or to

                    * Political Pamphlets  by  Mr Kf.ir.
i28 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

Iwork upon, shall long be at a loss and difabled from appearing
Ito advantage. May trouble you to surnish me with small quantities

of the articles you used to supply me with, as fossil alkali, minium,
I&c, &c, or anything else that you can conveniently spare.
                                                            now

Iwant everything, and wissi to get to work again as soon as can.
I Ishall soon send you a copy of what can recollect of the con

tents of my laboratory, &c, and shall beg the favour of some of

you to attend at Warwick as witnesses of what you remember of

Ithem. But if strtfl proof be required, must go without indem

nification.

                  I arn, dear Sir,

                  Yours sincerely,

                                    J. PRIESTLEY.

             Mr. KEIR to Doctor DARWIN.

                  Derby, near Birmingham,

                                    2yd March, 1793.

Dear Doctor,

             I have this day sent your books to go by the next
Icoach to Derby.
                  have had great pleasure and instruction in

reading them. They contain so much new and ingenious theory

that they cannot faii of making impression ; but as they are so deep

Iin medical learning, especially as the work advances (and under

stand from you that there are still more volumes, in which you will

enter still more technically into the penetralia of medicine), you

cannot expect to have a great many readers out of the profession,

and I think you must wait for the next crop of Doctors from the
                  OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.     I29

nurseries of medicine before you will have sull justice done to your
        I see the work is so profound in medical science as to
work.

Irender superfluous my remarks which formerly made upon the

expediency of rendering the language more popular and easily

intelligible, that you might have a greater number of readers ; for

as your plan extends to particular diseases you cannot perhaps do
Ithis.
        will, however, suggest to your consideration another pro

pofal, which is to make two works of it instead of one. The first

Ito contain all those volumes which have seen, which, with a few

alterations, might be rendered fit for popular philosophers. Thus

you would have a great many more readers, more candid ones,

and more willing to give the due praises and fame. They will also

render it necessary for the faculty to read it at least for the fake of
converfation. Whereas the subject of classes of diseases and

operations of medicines will give the idea of its being merely a

professional book. Suppose you were to publish the first part by

itself under its present title, and at the end of it give an advertise
ment that speedily will be published -- a work, giving its title,

applying the above principles to the classification and cure of

diseases and operations of medicines, and accordingly publish it

soon after, but not immediately. Give the world a little time to
Iread the'first.
                  think that you will by this procedure get more

money and fame, more quickly at least, though perhaps neither
Imore nor less fame ultimately, which think must follow in any
Imode of publication.
                       suppose you have seen Doctor Beddoe's

publication, in which he mentions his desiderium of your work.
He has sent me a copy for Mr. Edgeworth, whom he faw at my

house. If you know whether Mr. Edgeworth is still at Bristol,
Iand how to send this book to him, be so good as acquaint me.

called at the glass house, but could not then know certainly
whether they can make a glass bell of the sort wanted ; they will

be able to inform me when they see the one that you have sent

back. Your patient continues in good health and has recruited

                                           i
I30 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

both strength and spirits. We all look with pleasure to the paying
our respects to Mrs. Darwin and you, some time this summer.

                              I am, dear Doctor,

                                                Your affectionate friend,

                                                         JAMES KEIR.

   Has Doctor Johnson returned from France to Derby ?

   Doctor LinDj of Windsor, who sailed round the

world with Sir Joseph Banks and Doctor Solander,
was a Cousin of Mr. Keir's ; and on the death of Mr.
Francis Keir, who died on the 15th September, 1794,
wrote the following letter of condolence to his Brother.

Doctor LIND to Mr. KEIR.

                        Islington Spa,                 1794.

                            yd Ottober,

My dear Cousin,

              I was favoured with yours of the 2 7th yesterday, and

most sincerely condole with you on the loss of your good Brother ;

a worthier, sincerer, and better man never lived, and whom every

body esteemed and must regret.                         had the

  I had heard of his death by the Trotters, who         I then

melancholy account from Edinburgh about ten days ago.

wrote to my Brother and Sister and acquainted them of the event.

1 have been very  ill,  but thank God am at present something
               OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

Ibetter.  am glad to hear Mrs. and Miss Keir are well ; my
Ibest compliments and wishes.
                               faw by the last paper that old

Mrs. Blair died a few days ago at Beaconsfield ; and am, with

great esteem,

                 My dear Cousin,

                 Yours most affectionately and sincerely,

                                        J. LIND.

ARCHIBALD KEIR, Esq., to Mr. KEIR.

                                  September 30///, 1794.

My dear Cousin,

               IHow much  am concerned at the loss of your
IBrother, whom long valued and esteemed as one of the best of
Imen, and most affectionate friend, shall not here pretend to tell
I Iyou.
feel for you very sincerely on the occasion, as do for his

Sister, and for all those who enjoyed the happiness of his acquaint
ance. He was in truth a good man, friendly and amiable in his

manners. I had heard of his death from Mrs. Campbell, and it
Iaffected me greatly assure you.

  I am happy to find that you and your family are all in good

health, and would fain hope that you will think of paying a visit to

ILondon in the course of the winter, when should be so glad to

see you.
   We are now busy moving our surniture to the next door, No.

13, in the fame street ; and though this be so near at hand, yet the
trouble and bustle of changing is far from being agreeable to one

who is now old.

   My Son William, who has now got a troop, was with us for a
few weeks and returned to his regiment on Friday last. He seems

Ito like the war, as much as detest it and wish it at an end. He

                                        I2
132 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

has been very lucky indeed, and has been a good deal taken

notice of by the Duke, Sir William Erskine, and others, which

is very flattering to a young man.

   My Wife and Daughter desire to join with me in their best com

pliments to Mrs. Keir and the lovely Emilia ; remaining ever

with sincere regard,

                                 My dear Cousin,

                                                  Yours most affectionately,

                                                 ARCHIBALD KEIR.

           Mr. TROTTER to Mr. KEIR.

           Soho Square,

                                 1th Oflobcr, 1794.

Dear Sir,

             I believe it is not the usual practice to reply to such
Iletters as your last to me, but must beg leave to deviate from
Icustom in this instance where feel myself so peculiarly concerned.

Suffer me therefore, my dear Sir, to lament with you the loss of

Iyour poor Brother, for whom have long had the warmest attach

ment and friendly affection, formed on the perfect knowledge of

his most excellent character for goodness of heart, high fense of

honour, and great manliness of deportment in every situation.

  I beg my most respectsul compliments to Mrs. and Miss Keir,

in which my Mother, Sister, and Brothers, desire to join me.

           And am, my dear Sir,

           Your affectionate Cousin,

                                 JOHN TROTTER.

  IP.S. -- am but just returned from the country, or would have

wrote to you sooner.
           OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.    i33

           Captain LIND to Mr. KEIR.

           London,

           2$rd November, 1794.

Dear Sir,

           I was only favoured with your letter of the 27 th

September on my arrival in town last week. The death of your

much respected Brother was communicated to us by Miss K.
ITrotter some time ago. We were, assure you, greatly concerned
Iat it.
         had the fatisfaction of being frequently in his company

while at Edinburgh, and esteemed myself happy in being related to

so worthy a man. He was highly respected by my Wife, who

regrets his death exceedingly, and the more so on account of the

heavy loss sustained by his good Sister. Mrs. Lind had a letter

from her yesterday mentioning that she was in tolerable health.

Should any of our excursions bring us near you, we shall, with

great pleasure, avail ourselves of the opportunity of paying our

respects to you and family. We shall be very glad to see you in

town, which we hope will be this winter.

   Mrs. Lind unites with me in best wishes to you, Mrs. and Miss
Keir.

                               I am, dear Cousin,

           * Affectionately yours,

           FRANCIS LIND.

   About the year 1794 (if one may assign a date on
probabilities only) Mr. Keir and Mr. Blair purchased

land at Tividale on which they established the Tividale

Colliery. Mr. Keir had long given his attention to the
IJ4 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

subject of the mineralogy of Staffordshire, and on the

14th June, 1798,      he wrote an article upon it for Mr.
Shaw, who was         about publishing his " History of

Staffordshire." In the  pbreefa"ceineoxfprtehsissibliympionrdteabnttedwofrokr
Mr. Shaw professes to

the most valuable information respecting the mineralogy

and manufactories, &c, to the very excellent pen of
James Keir, Esq., author of the ' Chemical Dictionary,'
&c, whose superior knowledge in that science has enabled

him to establish at Tipton a large and curious manu

factory of soap and white lead upon new principles."

Some of Mr. Keir's observations as a glass maker

gave him an unexpected insight into the nature of the

basalts of Rowley Regis. Mention has already been
made of the paper on the " Crystallizations on Glass "

furnished  by    him  to the Royal Society in  1776.   In that
paper he              Perhaps all homogenous   bodies
           says  :"                                    in their

transition from a fluid to a solid state would, if this

transition were not effesled loo hajlily, concrete into
crystals, or bodies similarly figured. Instances of such

crystallization have occurred to me in glass which had

passed very slowly from a fluid to a solid state. * * *
Does not this discovery of a property in glass to crystallize
reflect a high degree of probability on the opinion that
the great native crystals of basalts, such as those which
form the Giants' Causeway or the Pillars of Staffa, have

been produced by the crystallization of a vitreous lava
rendered fluid by the fire of volcanos." Then he points
        OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                     135

out an analogy between the columnar or prismatic forms

in the crystallized basalts  and   in   the vitreous crystals ;
and concludes by showing     that      the stone on which the
                                   "

columns of basalts generally rest, and which sometimes
is supported by these columns, being of the same nature

and texture as the columns themselves, seems to be a mass

irregularly crystallized, analogous to the irregularly-

shaped masses in the specimens of glass No. 1 and No. 2."

In the article to Mr. Shaw, written twenty-two years

after, he returns upon this argument, ascribing the origin

of the  basaltic Rowley Hills to the      volcanic  eruption  of
        in igneous fusion. He says
matter                                 :  --

" The formation of basaltic rocks has lately been the subject of

a controversy which has been agitated with great zeal by mineralo

gists, some of whom consider them as lava thrown out of volcanos,

and others as the produce of watery deposition ; and the advocates

for these two different opinions have been distinguished by the

names Vulcanists and Neptunists.       The celebrated Bergman

ascribes the bafaltic matter to ejection from volcanos, but he does
not consider this matter as a lava melted by fire, but a mass of
earthy particles softened and diluted with water, which afterwards
has become dry and consolidated ; and in fact considerable ejections
of watery mud have been seen from Vesuvius, and in such
immense quantities from the volcanos of the Andes as to have over
flowed and ruined large provinces. This controversy seems to
have derived additional importance and interest from the striking
property which this bafaltic stone possesses of assuming sometimes
a columnar, and frequently also an articulated form, which it
exhibits, to the admiration of mankind, in those magnificent and
              LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

stupendous structures, the Giants' Causeway in Ireland, the Island

Staffa, the extinct volcanos of Auvergne, and in many other parts

of the earth, and which have lately been traced in Vesuvius and

Etna, as also in the bafaltic rocks of this country. The subject is
Itoo large, and the controversy too intricate for this place.
                                                               have

elsewhere shown the analogy which subsists between the columnar

and spherical bafaltic stones and the artificial crystallizations which

I had observed in glass, and thence inferred the possibility of the
Iformation of the former by susion and very gradual cooling. But

now confine my attention to the local appearances, and to deduc
Itions from them.
                   must not venture into the extensive field of

comparison and illustration which the mineralogy of other countries

would afford, and which would show that the fame analogy and

relation that subsist here between coal, limestone, and bafalts,

extend very generally, though with considerable variation of cir
Icumstances.
              will only add one surther observation on the bafalts

of this country, which is likewise generally applicable ; namely,

that the spontaneous decomposition or gradual destruction of this
stone is no less worthy of attention than its formation. For

bafalt, like lava and other stones of a similar composition, is re

markably subject to be decomposed by the action of water and

air, and to fall into a powder or coarse clay, called roach, consisting,

like the stone itself, of argillaceous, siliceous, and ferruginous

particles. These particles, by surther exposure and decomposition,

and by different mechanical and chemical action, may have been

separated and converted into the various clays, more or less pure,

locks, clunch, and ironstone, with which this country abounds.

When we see the alteration on the surface of this stone which the

exposure of a few weeks produces we cannot doubt that the con
tinued effects of many succeeding ages must have been very great,

and that much of the circumjacent ground must have been derived

from this source ; while the different beds of coal seem to show the

successive periods of vegetation and alluvion."
               OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                                                                        137

   Doctor Blair, who, with his Brother, carried on the
Tividale Colliery some years after the death of Mr.
Keir, alluding to this point, says : --

   " That which gives, curiously, a personal touch to the question

    that in the Tividale Colliery, which lay at the foot of the hills,

the last pit, opened long after, towards the hills, showed the bafalt

lying above the coal. The shaft had to be sunk many yards through
the bafaltic rock and --what was more to the purpose as gain to
science, though very far from one to the workers of the coalfield --

the coal when reached afforded the mojl fatisfaclory confirmation of
Mr. Keir's Vulcanian theory. The bituminous or combustible

part of the coal had been so completely expelled by the immense

heat of the bafalt in susion at many yards distance above that

would not burn, but lay like a stone in the fire."
is,

                                  ;
                                                                                                           a

   On the 8th February, 181 Mr. Keir forwarded toit
the Geological Society "An account of the Strata         a in it
    a                 1,

            1                   it
sinking Pit in Tividale Colliery, near Dudley," also

number of specimens.

Mr. Keir was   in     frequent correspondence with the

Genevese Philosopher, Monsieur De Luc, and with the

celebrated French Chemist, Monsieur Berthollet.

It  was Monsieur De Luc who,        will be remem

bered, as Reader to Queen Charlotte, was pitilessly

condemned to stand when reading in her presence, not

withstanding his infirmity Queen Charlotte being
    it
                                               ;

                                                               it
                                                                         is
forgetful, would seem, of the lesson of Queenly courtesy

taught by her great predecessor Elizabeth, who addressed
Lord Burleigh with " Sit down, my Lord;
                                                                                                              your

good head that we want, and not your bad legs"
              LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

   It was to Monsieur Berthollet that the Emperor

Buonaparte addressed himself for a precautionary anti

ifdote to poison, and from whom he received the simple

ingenious prescription --to spit out whatever had a

peculiar taste.

Mr. Young, the well-known Greek Professor at

Glasgow College,  seems to have been on very friendly

terms with Mr.    Keir, judging from the following
letter : --

                             Glasgow College,

                                        2)id February, 1804.

My dear Sir,

             I write this as a line of introduction to Mr. Boyle,
who will get to Hill-Top, I think, in less than a week. It gives me

much pleasure -- in any shape, on any subject, and for any time,

even a very short time -- to perform any act that amuses me into

Ithe idea that am again holding converse with you. None of us

will ever forget the few pleasing days we spent under your hospitable

Iroof. But on this subject dare not much enlarge. * * * Mrs.

Young begs to be remembered to you, and your Son and Daughter*

with much regard and esteem. You will scarcely doubt that

Elizabeth would join in the expression of these affections if she
Iwere here. * * *
                   have the pleasure to be, my dear Sir,

                             Your faithsul humble servant,

To James Keir, Esq., F.B.5.  JOHN YOUNG.

  · Mr. Keir's only Daughter, Amelia, had lately married Mr. John Lewis Moilliet,

of Geneva, afterwards Merchant and Banker of Birmingham.
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                                l39

Mr. KEIR to Mrs. MOILLIET.

                                             Friday Evening.

My dear Amelia,

              I received yours of this morning. You fay you sent

me a letter by Betty Satchel. She brought me a letter from
Gregory Watt, which had been left at your house for me, but she

brought me none from you, and upon sending to her now to

inquire, she fays she received only that one.

  I am sorry to hear that you are hysterical and that you have an
Ioppression at your chest, which hope is only hysterical, which is

difagreeable enough, tho' not dangerous.

  I am sorry you find it so difficult to be a stoic, for truly there is

much occasion for stoicism or fortitude of some sort in this life ;

but hysterics are a bad preparation for stoicism. Does not Cassius,

in the Play of Julius Cæsar, fay that this great man became

Icowardly when he had a fit of the ague, or some such thing ? So

hope, when you recover more strength, you will quit your hysterics
and take in exchange the stoic philosophy, and be like to--

          " That man divine whom Wisdom calls her own ;

Great, without Title, whom fortune blessed,

Rich ev'n when plunder' d; honoured while oppressed ;

Loved without youth ; and followed without power ;
At home, tho' exiled ; free tho' in the Tower ;

In short, that reasoning, high, immortal thing,

Just less than Jove and much above a King ;
Nay half in heaven -- except (what's mighty odd)
A fit of vapours clouds this demi-god."

So fays Pope in imitation of Horace. In these lines it is evident
that Pope alluded to his friend Atterbury, Bishop of Rochester, a

man of great abilities, who, after a long confinement in the Tower,
was banished in his old age, and died in banishment.
140 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCEI it,                                    I
                 I                                                      I
   You have read the elogium of Marcus Aurelius, the stoic
aEmperor, by Thomas. It would entertain you to read a little ofis
        athe book written by the good Emperor himself, called Thea
Meditations of Marcus Antonius. It is in the Birmingham Library,
       in I
No. 2541, 8vo. I do not recommend to you to tire yourself with
             is
reading it all, only a little, to show you his manner of consideringa
all human things.

  IEmmy is perfectly well, and am better while the wind is still in
Ithe north ; and do not expose myself to as still have some

pains lurking about me. Two days before was taken ill, was

telling Mr. Jewett that always had an attack every March, the

winds being of peculiar nature in that month.

   Alec translated Sophocles' play called Edipus Tyrannus.

hope to hear to-morrow that you are better.

   In the above letter mention made of Mr. Keir's
having received letter from Mr. Gregory Watt.
Mr. Gregory Watt had, when young man, become
acquainted with Sir Humphry Davy, who appreciated

 the great genius which his young friend possessed, and

while visiting him Birmingham was introduced to Mr.
Keir.

    The following article on this subject was published in
the Birmingham "Journal on the 15th February,
 1868 :--

   " An additional gleam of light reflected on Keir through the

 instrumentality of Sir Humphry Davy (one of the most scientific
 and poetic of Chemists, originator of many of the most important
 discoveries made in Chemistry, author of Salmonia, and The
 Consolations in Travel), on the occasion of visit paid by him to
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                                 I4I

Gregory Watt, Son of the James Watt, that beloved Son, whose
life gave such promise of suture greatness, the brilliancy of which

was hidden in an early grave, and whose death occasioned to the

tender Father the most poignant grief, and every association with

which was cherished with paternal love and affection. When the

'garret' at Heathfield was opened, long years after the mortal

remains of the bereaved Father had been deposited in the Church

at Handsworth, amid the results of his marvellous inventive skill and

genius, his 'sculpturing machine,' (the last work of his hands)
philosophic instruments, tools, and implements, there was found a

hair-covered travelling trunk. This occupied a position in close

proximity to where Watt fat and worked. It contained no model,
no marvel of human genius, but simply all poor Gregory's school

books, his first attempts at writing, his boy's drawings of battles,

his first school exercises, his college themes, delectuses, grammars,

dictionaries, and class books.                          The

   " ' One touch of nature makes the whole world kin.'

transcendent genius of Watt, amid all the triumphs of mechanical

science achieved by him, acknowledged his humanity ; and in the

solitude of his studio-garret these relics of his beloved Gregory

were doubtless often looked at by a Father's eyes, bedimmed and

sufsused with tears ; like the Hebrew King of old, his words in all

probability were, ' My Son, would to God I had died for thee.'
   " In life, this memory-cherished Son of ' the great improver of

the steam engine' was visited by Sir Humphry Davy, at

Birmingham. When there, he was introduced to Keir ; the result

and the impression made by him, Davy thus records in one of his

Iletters to his Mother: --' was particularly sorry to leave Mr.

Keir, for he is both an amiable and a great man.' This tribute

from the great Chemist is an additional evidence as to the position

Keir occupied socially and scientifically. In the biography alluded

to of Sir Humphry Davy it is stated he was ' an able Chemist,

and distinguished for much originality and independence of mind.'"
142 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

   Mr. Muirhead, in his " Life of Watt," tells us
that " in 1 804, Mr. Watt's favourite Son Gregory,

the charm of whose presence and extraordinary talents
was the ornament and pride of his race, languished and
died of that insidious disease which so often destroys the
most accomplished and the most lovely." Mr. Keir,

who greatly valued Mr. Gregory Watt, wrote the
following short but pathetic elegy on his decease : --

         " A youth with every grace and virtue crowned,

           Loved and deplored, lies here in hallowed ground ;
           With manners gentle, kind affections joined,
           Beauty of form, and energy of mind.
           Early, in lists of fame, appeared his name,
            Striving to emulate paternal fame,
          No stranger, he, to every willing muse ;
           But chief to Nature's lore he bent his views ;

           By Science led, he climbed the mountain's brow,
          And marked Her awsul footsteps firm though flow ;
          Her various changes from primæval birth,
           From chaos rude to flowery fertile earth.
          But vain his eager toils ! His tender frame

            Was soon consumed by mind's too ardent flame.
           And vain all human hopes ! a traitor Fate
           Within youth's opening blossom lurking fat.

         Mount then, oh Watt ! Explore some new-born world :

           Whence and by what Almighty Fiat hurl'd :
           How, from convulsive efforts, Order rose :
          From jarring Elements, emerged Repose :--
           Volcanos rend from Centre to the Pole,
           And raging Tempests harmonize the whole."
                      OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

   In 1793, Mr. Keir had written and published a

Pamphlet, entitled " The Martial Character of Nations,"

in which he seems to have foreseen that the change in the

government of France, from the Monarchical to the

Republican, would be very far from rendering her more
pacific to her neighbours ; and hence the necessity which
he saw for exciting a more warlike spirit in the English
nation to resist; any attempts at invasion. The Pamphlet

concluded with the following passage :--

   " The late invasion of America, and the later invasion of France

by the Prussians and Austrians, give confirmation to this doctrine ;

and if ever France, under her present or any suture system of

government (for republican or monarchical she will always be
hostile), should ever put her threats of invasion of this ifland into
execution, let us trust that the British spirit of liberty will kindle
the martial ardour necessary for our defence. The prudential
measures taken by Queen Elizabeth to array the people of
England for the protection of her kingdom against the Spanish

invasion deserves much attention. A superior Navy gives import

ant advantages, yet we ought not to rest our defence on that alone ;

for first, this superiority is precarious ; and secondly, our fleets
cannot guard our extent of coast in all circumstances of adverse
winds and of the necessity of refitting, against a numerous enemy,
stimulated by strong passions, and determined to risk much upon a
daring enterprise of brilliant expectation. * * * Nothing then
is wanting to guard against the danger of invasion but a martial

spirit of defence in the people. It would be well worth considera

tion, whether the virtue and patriotism of our people are equal to
the purpose of a martial spirit and national defence ; whether their

character has not, within these few years, rapidly degenerated, in
consequence of the vast increase of our manufactures, into selfish
144 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

ness, corruption of morals, licentiousness, and disposition to popular

tumults and riot ; and whether it is not necessary to check these

evils and recover a better temper by new institutions and by some

more regular discipline. To expect patriotism in a people without

morals, is to expect that heavy bodies will ascend ; neither can the

constitution of a government remain long the fame after the cha
Ifracter of a people has changed. * * *
                                         therefore the martial

character should, by its very existence, preclude the necessity of its

being called into exertion (for the best security for peace is readi

ness for war; and, as a great Prince remarks, 'A drawn sword often

keeps others in their scabbards'), it cannot surely be deemed an

unnecesfary preparation ; but, like the burnished arms that hang

round the hall of an ancient mansion, it will, by its presence,

though unemployed, serve at once for ornament and protection."

   Ten years after the date of this publication, the

crisis, which Mr. Keir had foreseen, took place ; and
Buonaparte having declared his intention of invading

Great Britain in the year 1803, provoked the extraor

dinary outburst  of patriotic feeling  which followed. Mr.
                                        " Reflections on the
Keir published    another Pamphlet,

Invasion of Great Britain by the French Armies ; on the

Mode of Defence ; and on the useful application of the
National Levies," the preface to which commences : --

" The writer of the following pages, being incapable of giving

personal service in this momentous crisis, is desirous to offer to the

consideration of the public the result of the meditations of a man

who, to some military experience (of which the invasion of an

enemy's country made a part) has added also some study and
Ifreflection.
               anything is here suggested which may contribute to
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.      H5

public utility, his end and aim will be completely answered ; he
claims no merit ; he is not within the sphere of military ambition,
nor does he desire literary fame. His only wish is to serve his

country, and to fee its proud liberties, external and internal, trans

mitted with undiminished lustre to posterity. He has seen with joy
the great display of public spirit in the multitude of voluntary offers.
He knows that this spirit exists strong in those ranks where there is

property to be defended, and where education has taught to

estimate the value of the singular happiness which we enjoy under
our admirable form of government. And though many of the

inferior class are faid to have offered their volunteer services in

some measure, perhaps, from the fear of being placed in regular

regiments, yet he has not the smallest doubt that there is a suffi

ciency, both of strength and spirit, if well applied, to repel the

formidable invasion with which we are threatened."

   The following fragment of a letter was probably-
written at the very commencement of the crisis, and
before the spirit of the English nation had made itself
manifest : --

 ********Mr. KEIR to Doctor DARWIN.
opportunity of hearing from you and the pleasure of knowing that
Iyou and Mrs. Darwin, and hope all the Darwinian race, are
Iwell. am very happy to find that in these lowering times, &c, &c.
I* * *
        suppose, like Archimedes when Syracuse

was taken and soldiers rushed into his house, you will tell the

French, when they come to Derby, not to disturb your meditations ;

and that you are just on the point of catching the matter of

electricity by the tail, and the matter of heat by its whiskers.

                         K.
I46 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

Now, in my opinion, these matters have nothing more material,

substantial, or solid, than the Bank of England will have after Mr.

IPitt has sent all the gold in it to the Emperor, which have no

doubt is the reason of his emptying our purses of their gold and
silver, and filling them with paper ;-- no more solidity than Mr.

Pitt's sincerity, Mr. Dundas's disinterestedness, Mr. Burke's

moderation and good temper, and, last and worst of all, than the

fense and spirit of the people of England.
********Isure you would not ; and, what is worse, nobody fear would buy
IYou ask me why  do not write Chemical Dictionaries :--

IBecause, suppose, nobody would at this time read them.  I am

them.

   With best wishes to Mrs. Darwin and your fireside, in which
Mrs. Keir and my Daughter join heartily.

                                            JAMES KEIR.

                  Mr. TROTTER to Mr. KEIR.

                                                                 Soho Square,

                                                                    July, 1803.

    My dear Sir,

             I am really sorry that circumstances have unavoidably

happened to prevent my giving immediate attention to your wishes

in respect to Mr. Moilliet, but being from home (I was at the

time in Suffolk and Essex) at the time, and since that unremittingly
engaged in business which could not for a moment be laid aside,

Iwill trust operate sufficiently with you to excuse any appearance

of inattention, which towards you is the thing the most distant

Ifrom my meaning. Had had the good fortune to have met with

Mr. Moilliet, we would have entered upon the business to which

Iyou allude, but that not being the cafe, may beg you will request

of him to detail a few circumstances by letter, and if it should
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.  147

prove in my power to advance his interest in the line of his

Ibusiness, without interference where am already engaged, it will

give me real pleasure to do so.

  IThese are serious and alarming times, but trust that, by conduct

such as we may glory in, we shall subdue those who threaten to
disturb our tranquillity.

  I beg my best compliments to all your family, and am,

                                    My dear Sir,
                                                  Most sincerely yours,

                                                    JOHN TROTTER.

                Mr. KEIR to Mr. TROTTER.

   My dear Sir,

            I have received your friendly letter, and have only to

thank you sor your good disposition to serve my Son-in-Law, if you

can with propriety.

   It gives me pleasure to hear again from yourself after so long an

Iinterval. You are assisting, suppose, in preparing for the grand

work of defence, which in my opinion cannot fail of terminating to
the honour of the country and destruction of the enemy, if the
commanders have half as much wisdom as the nation has spirit.

  IHow happy should be to shake hands with you if good fortune
Ishould ever lead you this way. For my part, am old, and never
Istir from home. Yours was the last house stopt at in London,

ten or twelve years ago.
    Adieu, my dear Sir. May your prosperity continue in all

respects, and believe me to be ever, with regard and affection,

                                                      Yours sincerely,

                                                              JAMES KEIR.
                                                                        K2
 148 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

    On the 19th May, 1801, Mr. Keir's only child,
Amelia Keir, was married to Mr. John Lewis

Moilliet, of an old Genevese family, by the Rev.

Mr. Jesse, at West Bromwich Church; and about a year
and a half after this event she had the misfortune to lose
her Mother, who died on the aoth November, 1802.
The following notice is extracted from a M.S. Book of
Dates and Memoranda which she wrote : --

   "On the 20th November, 1802, my dear Mother suddenly
departed this life, aged 55, a few days after the solemnization of

the christening of my first-born child, Amelia. This was the first
and heaviest affliction which had then fallen upon me, and occurred

Iat a time when peculiarly felt the want of a Mother's tender

guidance in the sulfilment of my new duties. My dear Mother had
always expressed a dread of lingering illness, and wished that her

Ilife might be preserved untii should become a Wife and Mother ;

these wishes were accomplished, and then she departed from this
world of sorrow.

   " My Father was happy in his married life, my Mother being
gifted with remarkable beauty in her youth, simplicity of manner,
sensibility, sincerity, and truth, a noble spirit of generosity, and an
extensive liberality of disposition, which well accorded with his
taste. In her youth she had been so remarkably beautisul that an

eminent painter applied to her Father for permission to take her
portrait, a request which was decidedly resused. With this beauty

she united a sweetness of disposition and a mind remarkably free
from vanity and every useless thought of self, which rendered her

very lovely.
    " She carried out conscientiously her opinions regarding my

education, or towards me ; both parents uniting to restrain their
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                              149

tenderness of feeling, not to awaken an undue degree of sensibility
in their only child.

   " The self-control of my dear Father was, for a moment, over

come by the suddeness of her death, and he uttered a cry of grief.

IThis was the only time faw my Father overcome with sorrow.

He wore her wedding ring suspended from his neck till nearly the
close of life.

   " My dear Mother received the Sacrament, shedding many tears,

a few Sundays before her death, at West Bromwich Church, where

her mortal remains now lie buried."

The following is from the pen of Doctor Blair : --

I" The habit of Mr. Keir's life whilst knew him was to sleep

at home. He reluftantly flept out. But on the 19th December,
1807, he had been persuaded to fleep at the house then in my

Father's occupation, Hilton Park, on the Wolverhampton country

side. In the morning a messenger came over with the intelligence

that his house at West Bromwich had been burnt to the ground in

the night. The origin of the accident was this :--The perpetual

drive over to Tipton had of late years become fatiguing to him,

and for some time past, that he might have the general supervision

of the business at home, he had established a counting house in a

j-oom on the ground floor of his dwelling house. The two clerks

Iemployed were chilly, and kept up, as well remember, a remark

ably large fire, which at night, for fafety, was raked out on to the

hearth-stone. This rested upon a beam in the cellar beneath,

which had long been charring unobserved, and that night broke

into flame. The two maid-servants, who remained in care of the

house, perceiving a smell of the fire yet smouldering, had opened a
Iwindow, and having let the smell out, went to bed.
                                                     was at my

Father's when the news came. Mr. Keir, informed that no harm

had happened to life or limb, took it with surprising composure.

IMy Brother and myself were, at the time, his inmates ; and as
I^O LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

drove over in the chaise with Mr. Keir to the scene of the difaster,

I(for Richard, the horseman, rode), had sull occasion of witnessing

the continuance of this tranquillity unbroken till he slept out. One
little trait of pleafantry he risked as we drove : one of the clerks
had, as it happened, a nose of the igneous quality celebrated in one

of Sir John Falstaff's companions, and fed up with the fame
fuel. Mr. Keir suggested the possibility that the flame which

consumed his house might have been caused by a spark from this

fire. His own books and papers were at the other end of the

building and had been mostly faved. Mr. Keir drew from the

accident the conclusion, that the fafest place for a fire is-- the

grate?

   Miss Edgeworth, in a letter written from Edge-
worthstown, February, 1808, to Mrs. Ruxton, says: --

   " Mr. Keir's house at Hill Top has been burnt down, and he is

now forced to live in a little farm-house, in which, however, he
says he is perfectly contented. He told us this incidentally in one

Iof the most polite and kind letters ever read, which he wrote to

my Father on the chapter on The Education of Princes"

   Many interesting letters were written by Mr. Keir to

his beloved daughter at this time, from which we select

a few of the least private.

Mr. KEIR to Mrs. MOILLIET.

   My dear Amelia,

             I Imentioned in my last letter that should send some

grave remarks upon education, &c.,* not for their present enter
tainment.

  * Mr. Keir had a curious theory on the universality of education,  as

including Physics and Metaphysics.
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

The foundations of knowledge afford no entertainment to the

mind, but are painsul and laborious both to children and grown

up people. It is only by parental or other authority, and various
contrivances of small punishments, rewards, examples, &c, that a

child can be made to conquer the first elements of reading and
writing. The labour is the fame in grown-up people, so that if

they have been neglected in their early education they cannot

afterwards recover it or go through the necessary drudgery.

Omiah was a native of Otaheite, and in England was instructed ;

but though he was a man of lively parts and exceedingly desirous

to read, yet he never could conquer the difficulties, and was too

much amused by his curiosity, and by society. It is the fame with

the first parts of literature, grammar, language, &c, which are

by no means such as would induce any young person to go through

the labour, but by some artificial motive.

But the artificial motive would be ineffectual unless we were to

employ a master-stroke of policy, which has been more or less

successfully employed at all times and places, and which consists in

keeping the mind sufficiently disengaged from other interests or

pursuits, so that it may admit those dry and unentertaining elements

of literature. * * * The French ladies were educated in

convents and have been greatly distinguished for literature, espe

cially for epistolary ; such were Mesdames Sevigny, Maintenon,
ILambert, &c.
               remember Mrs. Blair's Mother told me that

her Daughter studied so closely as never to be seen, but in the

evening, by any visitor.

   It is very evident that as nothing can be less entertaining than

grammatical exercises, it seems necessary (in order to secure some

admission for these, or such as these, into the mind) that it must be
vacant, or disengaged, from all interests of amusement, passion, &c.

For the affections do not admit of different, and especially contrary

interests at the fame time. When the one is irksome and the other

pleafant, it is easy to fee which will prevail. The person who
152 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

thinks, by persuasive authority or other artificial means, to alter the
affections, must be very ignorant of human nature. People de

ceive themselves if they think that their children being obedient

enough to turn their lessons from plays (charades) to grammar, that
their minds are also turned.

   A great fault of masters, mothers, and young mothers especially,
is that they think so highly of their own powers of governing
children by their various methods, as if children were machines to
be acted upon as their governors choose. But they ought to think
differently of a human being, that has by nature a will of its own,
likings, and dislikes. These you cannot alter; but you may present

to his acceptance such things as you wish him to choose and
prefer ; and you may keep from his sight or power such things as
you wish him not to have, or to like.

   Thus the Art of Managing Children consists in the proper choice

of what things ought to be offered for their acceptance or doing, and
of what things ought to be put out of their sight or power. This
rule is applicable to children, both great and small, or rather to
parents, what they ought to give or permit, and what they ought
to abstain from. Their address and management ought to be
employed in preventing what they difapprove of; but, by no
means, by any artifice or deceit, which would be ruinous, without
recovery. Though a parent will not deceive, he need not inform
the child of all his motives of aclion, or of abstaining, of which the
child is not the judge.

My dear Amelia,

          I am happy to hear that you are so well and that

your little boy performs the duties of his present life, sucking and

sleeping, with so much reputation to himself and fatisfaction to his
          IBut am very sorry to find, from your and Mr.
friends.

Moilliet's letters, that a conspiracy had been formed against my
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.                          1 53

little Grandson, notwithstanding his good behaviour, to burthen him

during the whole of his suture life with an unnecessarily long awk

ward name, James Keir Moilliet. If, indeed, while my name

was thus stuck to his own, a large estate had been stuck to the

name, he and his good-natured correspondents might excuse the

trouble of writing three words instead of two; but as that is not the

cafe, they will undoubtedly think that a shorter and less puzzling

name might have done for him. Though parents have the power

of choosing a name for their child, they should consider, as it will

be principally his affair, whether it will be convenient and agreeable

to him when he is grown up. For surely nobody would be so ill-

natured as to christen their child Nebuchadnezzar, or Beelzebub,

or Tom-Tit. They ought to consider that the poor child will never

have it in his power to alter his name and correct the fault of his

parents, but that it is an original sin which is never to be expiated

unless indeed he gets himself adopted into the family of the Aliafes,
Ifwhich is not the most reputable in the world.
                                                 you are of

opinion, with Tristram Shandy's Father, that the choice of a

Iname influences a child's fortune and prosperity, cannot advise

you to take mine with that view, by any means, but rather to

choose some of the following, -- Good-luck, Felix, Faujlus, Profpew,

Fortunatus. But the name which, above all others, is most

Irespected and will gain more credit in the world, and which

therefore particularly recommend for my Grandson, is Abraham

Newland Moilliet. This name is particularly applicable to the

present and probably suture times. For, as gold and silver are

getting more and more scarce, it is probable that before little

Abraham becomes a man there will be no money but paper, and

it is evident that no other signature will look so well at the bottom

of a guinea, or five-guinea note. But there is some danger of giving

a name that has a meaning or allusion to some predecessor ; for

even Abraham Newland might become a bankrupt. An Architect
in London called his Son Michael Angelo, but so far from
»54 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

emulating the genius which built St. Peter's at Rome, young

Michael never attempted to build a hut. Some Painters have
given the name of Raphael to their Sons, who were never fit for

Ianything but cleaning their Father's brushes. remember a person

of the name of Julius Cæsar. IHow he came by that name do

not know, as it is not mentioned in history that Julius, when he

invaded Britain, had any amour with the British Princesses and left

posterity in this island. Happily this gentleman was a soldier and

became a General ; but had his lot been that of a Parson, how

oddly it would have sounded that Julius Cæsar had preached an

excellent sermon against War and Ambition ! However, his name

might have suited one subject very well ; for if his parishioners
were unwilling to pay tithes, he might choose his text-- " Give unto

Cæsar the things that are Cæsar's."

  ITo be serious, -- know, my dear Amelia, that the name pro
Iposed is intended as a compliment to me, and am therefore much

obliged to you, Mr. Moilliet, and the good ladies whose kindness

have suggested this propofal ; but it would be lost on me, as
Iunfortunately
                have not the smallest desire that my name should
Ibe continued beyond my own existence. The little boy will,

hope, pass well through the world with a name that is easily

remembered and requires no explanation. His Father's name

John and Jack is more manly and sounds better than James and

Jim and Jimmy, and therefore preferable. Whatever he is called,
I hope he will always have a good name in the world, that
I                                                                                                                    that

             it
                                            it
                                                                                                                is,
his own conduct will make good. * * * *

                                         JAMES KEIR.

       wish your Husband's business did not come upon him by

starts, as obliges him to work so hard at particular times. But
we can have nothing in this world exactly as we could wish. There
are two ways of considering everything -- one to wish that things

were better, and the other to rejoice that they are no worse.
OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.     155

Perhaps the last philosophy is the best suited to the affairs of life.
You certainly fay true, if industry were the certain means of wealth,
your Husband would be entitled to riches ; and it is undoubtedly
a more sure method than any other ; but besides that, much de
pends on good fortune. Prudence will also come in for a good

Ishare. In short believe it never was so difficult to get rich as at

this time. The stoical philosophy was a good one : their maxim
was, to do their utmost endeavours of industry and courage to
obtain what was right, but they were not over solicitous about the
success or event; they were equally tranquil whether successsul or
unsuccesssul. They consoled themselves with having done their
duty, and they left the result to the gods, or Providence, to deter
mine as it pleased them.

Mr. KEIR to Mrs. MOILLIET.

       I am extremely glad to hear that Mr. Moilliet is better
Iafter his journey to Warwick, as was and am still fearsul that his
Icomplaint is not merely indigestion or weakness of stomach.

remember Beddoes has published in one of his books Mr.

Moilliet's cafe, which is there attributed to the long-continued

pressure upon the pit of the stomach by leaning upon the desk.

Now it seems to me that nothing is more likely to injure the parts

upon which that pressure acts, and of these parts the diaphragm is

the most immediate, and it is the diaphragm and not the stomach

that by its action produces vomiting, to which he is so subject. It

is evidently not mere indigestion or weakness of stomach. For the

Ifmedicines that are called stomachics have never been of use.

ever he consults any medical man, he should mention the circum

stance which he told Beddoes, otherwise the case may be mistaken
Iand mischief may be done.
                            am persuaded medicines will not

do much or any service.  To abstain from the original cause
i56 THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

of the evil would be the true remedy. For this purpose a clerk
should be got at any price, who should execute his orders in

writing letters or posting. Long fasting, and writing after dinner,

must be detrimental. The most important maxim in medicine is

to take things in time, before they become inveterate, as it is faid.
I Iam glad that Emily is well in all respects.
Ithe hare.                                                               thank you for

          I                                                              and shall make
                                                                    it,
            have made three dinners from                                 a
                                                                                      a
fourth to-morrow.

My dear Johnny,

            thank you for your letter, and am glad that you have

been so well entertained with the things you have seen in Wales.

When you bathe, desire the person who goes into the water with

you to teach you to swim and to take hold of you and keep your

head above water, while you let go your feet and strike with your

arms and legs. Strike very slowly and without being in flutter,

and you will soon learn to swim, which  is    very pleafant exercise,
                                           a

and may perhaps sometime fave your life, or that of others. Once

when was bathing, faw child fall into the water, which would
I                  iIf I
   I                            a
have been drowned  had not swam to and faved it.
                                        it

hope, when you are not walking or bathing, that you employ

all your time in doing something useful, and learning some of the

lessons your Mamma gives you.      I  hope to receive more letters

from you and Emmy. Farewell.

   John Lewis Moilliet, junr., to whom this letter

was addressed, afterwards Officer in the 13 th Light
Dragoons, saved his Father's life while they were both

swimming in the Lake of Geneva, Mr. Moilliet being

seized with cramp.
THE        A PHILOSOPHICAL POEM                      LIFE.

                                                 ON

     PERIODS OF HUMAN

     JAMES                      BY  F.RS.

            KEIR, Esq^,

            (In his %2nd Year.)

                              Thyrsis.

 Say, ancient shepherd, from thy neighbouring plain
 Has some stray'd lambkin mingled with my store ?

 The search I'll make, thy favourite to restore, --
 But, sure ! that face I've seen, and thou no stranger swain.

 While yet a boy, and thou in manhood's prime,
 The prowling wolf I've seen thee fearless dare,
 And win sweet garlands from the listening fair;
 But now, how wan ! how deep the print of Time !

                               Meliboeus.

 Tis true, O gentle swain, my lamb has stray'd ;
 And true that age has fhrivell'd up my strength ;
 Then let me lay awhile my weary length,
. And seek repose beneath thy friendly shade.
          life and correspondence

                             Thyrsis.

Welcome, thrice welcome, to my humble door !

My ewes their sweet refreshing draught shall yield,
Rich with the fragrance of the flowery field.
The gods have given enough, and lent me more.

Here all is still, --fave through yon pendent wood

The mountain torrent whirls its foam amain,
Mid bleating flocks, along the pebbly plain,
Or wood-doves cooing o'er their callow brood.

Since age gives wisdom, reverend shepherd, fay--
Why gods, so bounteous in our life's bright morn,
Afflict the man with age and sorrows worn,

Darkening with cheerless gloom his setting ray ?

                              Meliboeus.
Blame not the gods ! Unknown to us their ends !

The fnail that creeps upon the temple's base,

Can he Palladids grand design embrace ?
Why rears the column ? Why the dome extends ?

We are but tenants of a little day,
While the bright orb runs endless through the skies
 Heedless of kings' and empires' fall or rife.
Oh not for us the deep designs of Heav'n to weigh !

 Though not the ends, we Nature's paths may trace,
And mark the appointed period of each stage
 Through which the beings pass from youth to age,
 Till Time's unwearied wings each mark efface.
              OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

 The emblems of their passing slate behold !
 The purple Spring pours forth her bloomy hopes ;
 Autumn matures, and fades ; but, kindly, drops
 Succeeding races in their wombs of gold.

 Thus Nature, studious that each kind remain,

(While mortal things complete their destiny --
 To breathe, to grow, to leave their like, and die,)

 Each species binds with an immortal chain.

To this eternal law Man too must bend ;
 His short-liv'd period of existence bear ;
 His cheerless entrance ; manhood's toilsome care ;
And view in me his never failing end !

                             Thyrsis.
Ah ! luckless end of this our mortal strife !
Why then, Oh tell, since each returning day
Brings some new ill, and takes some joy away,
Do men so wish for long protracted life ?

                              Meliboeus.
Deceitsul wishes ! Men too idly deem
That added days will added pleasures bring ;
But vain to touch a lyre's out-stretched string !
Or cheer the blind-struck eye with solar beam !

The crimson stream creeps flow the veins along

Of torpid age, and wakes not passioned joys ;

Unheeded glow ambition's glittering toys ;
Unheeded floats the syren's liquid song.
LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

Thrice happy they who close this earthly scene
Ere grief and care the anxious mind oppress ;
Ere dire mishaps the rising thought repress,
Or vigour palsied by disease and pain.

But happiest he who meets an honour'd grave,
Courts glorious danger in the front of death --

With trophies crown'd gives up his willing breath --
IFalling exults, " My country thus         "
                                    save
                                          !

Him let the patriot youths and virgins mourn,

Scatt'ring sweet violets on his hallow'd hearse,
Extol his virtues in the deathless verse,

His bright example glowing on his urn.

Death's not an ill. Blest be the gods who gave
The living blood, the animating breath ;
But doubly blest who gave the peacesul death ;
From human ills, the sanctuary, grave.

Come then ! not arm'd with darts, a fabled fiend ;
Better, with poppies cull'd round Lethe's stream --
Shedding oblivion on life's misty dream,
A messenger of grace, man's latest friend.

And, when the fibres of this woven clay
Shall break to dust, let the thin essence mount,
With new fledged wings, to that perennial Fount
Divine, whence erst it hail'd its new-born day.

Let no memorial mock my humble lot,
Nor grace with verdant hues a fallen leaf ;
No friend bedew my turf with ill-timed grief ;
All blame, and aught of praise, alike sorgot.
             OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

INo vain regrets of fortune false deign ;

Nor yet for wrongs does my resentment burn ;
Nor yet for kindness shown, the base return ;

IOf nought from kindred man do complain.

For so of life, Creation's Lord ordains,
That to preserve and move, the passions urge
With ever-varying force, as ocean's surge,
Through ebbs and flows, one equal poise maintains.

Excess, defect, show Vice in each extreme ;
Between is placed fair Virtue's golden mean ;
From all, results life's active changesul scene ;
And all consent t'obey the will supreme.

Fair Virtue's throne a fourfold power secures ;
Eternal Justice equal scales upholds ;
Her sparkling goblet Temperance withholds ;
Prudence foresees ; and Fortitude secures.

Yet not for self alone the passions glow ;
Does danger threat a friend ? Thy arm defends.
Does grief assail ? Thy soothing tear descends.
Each bosom throbs for others' joy, for others' woe.

As distant chords, spontaneous, turn again
The notes symphonious of a trembling lyre ;
To mutual aid so sympathies conspire,
And fellow-feelings link the social chain.

Man, know thy faults ! Thy charities refine :
To Youth grant time -- Oh spare the gentle breast

Whose love rewards, and kindness soothes to rest.

" To err is human ; to forgive divine."
            LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE

Still, hapless Age I Not for the frame's decay,

The faultering steps that hasten to the tomb ;
These only mark th'inevitable doom,
Where weary Nature points to rest the way.

But that the finer tissues, where expand

The powers of intellect, should -- callous, lose
Their mystic energy-- time-worn, resuse
To act obedient to the will's command !

That pictur'd images from Memory's store,
So dimm'd as scarce to own a friend or son ;
Imperial Reason waver on his throne,
And Fancy, peacock-wing'd, forget to soar !

So fades the landscape at the approach of night,
Which erst was burnish'd by the golden day ;
With lessening lustre steals each parting ray,

Till shapeless mist obscures the uncertain light.

And can the mind expire, too, like the frame ?
Whither, Oh Heaven -touched fage, that genius fled,
Which through the burning sky thy comet led ?
Say, meteor-like, is darkened all thy flame ?

Go then, ye earth-born ! Swell with crested pride ;
With rich and noble dust emblaze your name ;
Sound it through senseless crowds, and call it Fame ;
 Wealth, Power, and Beauty, flaunt your measur'd tide

Boast of heroic deeds of thoufands slain ;
Let your art paint the battle's horrid form ;
Show how you trample on your brother-worm;
And all the earth with crimes and blood disdain.
            OF THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

Or, proud of science, teach the bee her comb
To mould by labour' d geometric rules ;
Instruct the silk-worm, in your learned schools,
To wind her golden thread around her tomb.

But not to die, she thus herself enshrines :

For soon she'll mount and glisten in the ray ;

So the free'd soul, as holy Poets fay,
Spurns the dull earth, and, robed in glory, shines.

Let Poets sing, whene'er a facred muse
Inspires the lay, and hallowed be the theme :
The voice celestial rings through all our frame,
And God-like hopes of promised bliss insuse !

How shadowy, fleet, all human care and joy !
So emmets, toiling with a patriot-zeal,
By arms and arts, to rear their public weal ;--
One gust divides their fate with mighty Troy.

Friends of my youth ! Where are ye ? Fled from hence ;

And I a stranger in my native plain !

A breathing monument of man remain !
Joy, hope, and passion, cease to rouse my sense.

I ITo gladden those love, can no more ;

The fond throb struggling with the parting sigh ;
 Slow drop the dark'ning lids across mine eyes \

ILife's period past. ; hail the destined shore.

 Farewell, vain world ! The mortal race is run !
Roll on, bright Sun ! and lead thy choral throng,
 Hymning the Fiat in perpetual song !
 " Great Nature's Law's obeyed ! The Eternal Will is done."
164 THE LATE JAMES KEIR.

FROM A M.S. BOOK OF DATES, &c, BY
           Mrs. AMELIA MOILLIET.

   " My dear Father expired on 1 1 th October, 1 8 20, at
the age of eighty-five. Although he had suffered

severely, and often from irritability caused by bodily

infirmity during his last illness, he preserved a remarkably

calm and benign expression of countenance, arising from
a serenity of mind which increased as his life drew

towards its termination ; he then often expressed the

wish that he might die, without pain, in his sleep, and

this prayer was mercifully granted to him.
" He was buried in West Bromwich churchyard.
IMy Husband and
                 were precluded from erecting a

monument by his particular desire, but the remembrance

of his virtues, his talents, and his affection, are deeply

engraved upon our hearts."

PRINTED BY ROBT. EDMD. TAYLOR, 19, OLD STREET, GCSVVELL ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
*

                                                                                                     |
I 0 1936

